 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that the very modest and sensible speech of the mover of the address, in answer to the Speech from the throne, had given him very little to comment on; as there was little in it with which he did not cordially agree. Of the speech of the hon. member who seconded the address, he should have been enabled to say the same, were it not for the topic introduced at the end of his speech, differing in tone and temper both from the Speech from the throne and the address in answer to it. That hon. member had said, that there were persons in England anxious to subvert the constitution of the country. This assertion was unfortunate, and in contradiction to the first part of his speech, in which he had recommended and praised the reduction of that large military force, which there was, indeed, no honest pretence for keeping up. As to the foreign politics of the Speech from the throne he should pass them over very rapidly, because in our present situation they were comparatively of very small importance. Of the territory now in contest, he would only say, that he wished heartily it was out of the Turkish possession, and in the possession of the Greeks. In saying so, he was convinced that it would be a great benefit to the Christian European world, if an independent state were erected in that part of Europe by the great and glorious exertions of that cruelly-oppressed people in vindication of their ancient liberties. He had a short amendment to propose, which was dictated by no disrespect to the throne, but by a desire to give the royal Speech that consideration, which, under the circumstances of the country, was especially due to it. In ancient times—and, as he was rather old fashioned in his opinions, in what he would call better times—better parliamentary times—it was the custom for the. House of Commons to wish to deliberate before it resolved: it was the practice of our forefathers to understand before they
 27 28 29 30 31 32 —Neque ego illi detrahere ausim "Hærentem capita multa cum laude coronam;"
 Mr. Hobhouse,  in rising to second the motion, took occasion to express his entire concurrence in the reasons assigned by his hon. colleague for postponing any reply to the Speech from the throne, until the House should have some time to consider its merits. His hon. colleague was quite correct as to his quotations with, regard to the practice of that House in early times, respecting its replies to king's speeches; but even after the Revolution, it
 33 34 35 "—cui placet impares "Formas atque animos subjuga ahenea "Sævo mittere cum joco." 36
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he felt it necessary, in consequence of the course the debate had taken, to trouble the House with a very few observations; rather with the view of giving a general understanding of what ministers meant to do, than for the purpose of discussing at that moment any of the important topics adverted to in his majesty's speech. In the whole course of his parliamentary experience, he never recollected an address to the Crown better calculated to conciliate all parties, and to produce a feeling of temper and moderation, than that which was now proposed; and he certainly did regret that any thing should have occurred which was at all likely to interrupt that conciliatory tone of feeling, the necessity of preserving which had been suggested by his hon. friend who moved the address. He begged to assure the House, that in carrying up, as he hoped they would do, unanimously, this address to the throne, his majesty's government would not consider any individual as pledged by that vote to any specific line of conduct, with reference to the important subjects which were noticed in the address. He could assure the gentlemen opposite, that ministers did not expect to find, in consequence of the vote of that night, any relaxation on the part of the House of that disposition to scrutinize the conduct of government, which undoubtedly was a part of their duty, and which he hoped they would perform severely, but at the same time justly. He trusted the hon. baronet would forgive him, if he reminded him that it was customary on the first day of the session for gentlemen to enter into a sort of general protest, such as he and his hon. colleague had thought fit to make, lest it might be supposed that they were pledged to a particular line of conduct at a subsequent period, in consequence of the adoption of any proposed address. Perhaps it would have been as well if they had stopped there: for certainly it could
 40 41 42
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that if the noble lord, in the address which he and his colleagues were anxious to lay before the throne, meant to pledge the House to the adoption of severe measures for the protection of persons and property in Ireland, he, for one, would give it his decided negative. If the noble lord and his colleagues meant to assert that the law, as it now stood in Ireland, was not sufficiently strong for that purpose, they stated that which was not the fact. He should deceive the House, and betray his duty to the country, if he suffered it to go abroad, that in agreeing to the address that night, he recognized the necessity of enacting severe measures with respect to Ireland. He was ready to do no such thing. Such measures, in his opinion, could not produce good. He was sure that they would not restore peace or security beyond the peace of the passing moment. He would not state the feelings which seized hold of his mind when he reflected on the situation of his native land; but he would remind the noble marquis, that he had, almost nineteen years ago, in his place in that House, called on him and on his majesty's ministers to take into immediate consideration the state and condition of the people of
 43 44
 The Marquis of Londonderry  observed, that the address did not pledge the House to support any new penal laws with reference to Ireland. When the subject was before them, gentlemen would dispose of it as they thought fit. He should be enabled to-morrow to lay on the table certain dispatches from the marquis Wellesley, which contained a statement of the present situation of Ireland. He wished those despatches to be in the possession of members before he called the attention of the House to this subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was sure that, before he adverted to the other parts of the hon. member's speech, the House would allow him to remark upon that part of it in which a charge was made against him, of allowing secrets of finance to be known in certain
 71 72 en masse 73 74
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that if the right hon. gentleman was to be considered as the organ of government on financial matters, they had it now distinctly avowed, that there was to be no reduction of taxation. Ministers had at last screwed up their courage to deny that any benefit would result from such a measure; nay, the right hon. gentleman had gone so far as to assert, that the repeal of any tax, though he did not say what, would not only not relieve, but would be an aggravation of the distress of the country. Did the right hon. gentleman mean to tell the House, that the repeal of the tax on malt, on salt, on soap or leather, would not relieve the country from, a very great and almost intolerable pressure? Did he mean to say, that the people were so "ignorantly impatient of taxation," that on the very first day of the session, when they expected their distresses would at least be considered, they were to be told that the repeal of any one of those taxes would not only not relieve, but aggravate their misery? Was there any table in the country, except the table of that house, over which such doctrine
 75 l. 76
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  disclaimed having said that taxation was not an evil, or that the repeal of taxation was not a benefit. What he had stated was, that the simple repeal of taxes proposed by the hon. member, would be productive of more harm to the country by shaking the public credit, than would be commensurate with the relief which such a course might afford to particular classes.
 Mr. Calcraft  wished it to be understood, that he would never vote for the repeal of a tax, until he was convinced that such repeal would not affect the public credit of the country.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that the calculations and figures brought forward by the hon. member for Aberdeen were so complicated and so various, that it was difficult to pronounce any opinion of their accuracy without previous inquiry. He could not conceive any more unsatisfactory mode of bringing this great question under discussion, than that adopted by the hon. member. It was, he thought, extremely unreasonable, to say the least of it, without waiting to see what had been done by ministers in the way of reduction, to assume that they had done nothing. Let the House examine into facts before they decided. He objected to the proposed amendment, because it went, with one sweeping censure, to condemn a whole system of finance as fallacious. But let the House remember, if that system was wrong, that they had been parties to it. He did not mean to say that the House, upon proper grounds, might not retrace the steps they had taken with respect to any measure. No wish for an appearance of consistency should prevent them from adopting such a course; but, at the same time, he hoped the House would give its most serious and dispassionate considera-
 77
 Colonel Davies  rose chiefly to put one or two questions to the chancellor of the exchequer. The first was, whether or not he admitted the financial statements of the hon. member for Aberdeen to be correct; and the second was, whether it was his intention to interfere with the metallic currency of the country? The hon. member then went on to observe upon the extraordinary conduct of ministers, who some time ago told the country, that not a single man could be spared from the immense establishments which they continued in time of peace, and now admitted, by their proposed reductions, the extravagance of which they had hitherto been guilty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that in the absence of the necessary documents, he would neither admit nor deny the accuracy of the statements made by the hon. member for Aberdeen. As to the other question, he could give a most positive answer. He could assure the House, that government meant to make no alteration in our circulating medium. He felt convinced of the necessity of preserving the standard currency of the country.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, it was not so much his intention to follow the hon. member for Aberdeen through the various topics to which he had adverted, as to fix the attention of the House upon the true principle on which it ought to come to a vote on the present evening. That principle was shortly this—whether it would be creditable or not to the deliberations of parliament to close so large a question as the hon. member had opened, in the indirect manner that was now proposed. He for one was clearly of opinion, that to decide with such baste as that hon. member wished the House to decide, on a subject that was as important as it was complicated, would neither be consistent with the practice, the dignity, or the wisdom of parliament. He was therefore surprised at hearing the right hon. baronet, who bore a high reputation for financial knowledge, not only come forward to support the motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, but also to blame his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the exchequer, for having distinctly told the House, that relief for the disrresses of the country would be more effectually obtained by supporting public credit than by a reduction of taxation; when the right hon. baronet must have known that any great reduction of taxation could not be made in the present state of affairs, without committing a direct breach of public faith. Not only would his right hon. friend have shown an apathy to the financial relations of the country, totally unbecoming his high situation and character, if he had concurred in the amend-
 79 80 81
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, he could not see any relief for the distresses of the country except in retrenchment, and trusted that if ministers did not fulfil the pledges which they had given in favour of it, the House would compel them to do so. He called upon ministers to look the distress of the country manfully in the face, and to collect the best information they could relative to its nature and extent. He was convinced, from the language of the Speech from the throne, that ministers were unacquainted with the frightful ravages it had made. If they had seen the individual and collective distress which he had witnessed in that part of the country with which he was connected, he was confident they would have made some more vigorous efforts to relieve it. He felt it his painful duty to support the amendment.
 Sir John Sebright,  after expressing the obligation which he, in common with every man in the country, felt to the hon. member for Aberdeen, for the great exertions he had made to produce a reduction in the public expenditure, stated the paramount necessity which at present existed for enforcing a system of economy in every branch of the public expenditure. The noble marquis had called the resolu-
 87
 Mr. Bathurst  contended, that the question embraced by the amendment, was not one of such mean importance as to be taken up incidentally in the manner now proposed.
 Mr. Marryat  observed, that the question here was, whether the situation of the country did not absolutely call for such an amendment as that which had been proposed? It was not only agriculture that was suffering; the distress extended itself to numerous classes of the community. It was objected to the amendment, that it went to pledge those who voted for it to an interference with the sinking fund. He did not take it in that light. It left that question as perfectly open as the original address did. In plain terms, all who thought reduction absolutely necessary were bound to vote for the amendment; all who were of the contrary opinion would vote for the original address.
 Mr. Robert Clive  rose to offer himself to the attention of the House for the purpose of moving an Address of thanks to his majesty for his gracious Speech. He would not apologise for his inability to do justice to the subject, as he conceived he should best consult the convenience of the House by proceeding at once to those points which he should submit to their attention, and which he hoped would meet with their unanimous concurrence. On the first point of the Speech he appre-
 20 21 22 23
 Lord A. Hamilton  observed, that the supporters of ministers cast wholly out of their view the inability of the people to pay the oppressive taxes which weighed them down, and talked of the necessity of supporting their system, as if in the resources of the country they had unlimited funds to avail themselves of. If the House looked at the conduct of ministers, they must see what little reliance was to be placed on their pledges of economy. They had over and again made resolutions and declarations, and (to use the noble lord's phrase) had stultified themselves by departing from them. The fact was, they must either stultify their past conduct, or egregiously stultify their future deliberations. In the report of the agricultural committee, the extent of the distress was admitted, but the country was left without remedy or hope. Those with whom he acted saw no other remedy than a practical reduction of the expenditure of the country. It was the grossest injustice to his hon. friend's amendment, to say that it pledged the House to an abjuration, of the sinking fund. It did no such thing. Those who voted for the amendment, pledged themselves to no specific mode of reduction; but those who voted against it, not only discredited
 92
 Mr. Ricardo,  though he agreed with every thing that had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, in favour of economy and retrenchment, could not vote in favour of his amendment, as he differed widely from his hon. friend as to the causes of the existing agricultural distress. His hon. friend stated, that the cause of that distress was excessive taxation; but the real cause, it could not be denied, was the low price of agricultural produce. That taxation should be the cause of low prices was so absurd and so inconsistent with every principle of political economy, that he could not assent for a moment to the doctrine. Agreeing, however, as he did, with his hon. friend, as to the necessity of economy and retrenchment, and as to the impropriety of making loans to the occupiers of lands, be was sure they would be frequently found, in the course of the session, pursuing together that necessary object, a reduction of expenditure and taxation.
 Mr. Gipps  also expressed his gratitude to the hon. member for Aberdeen, and his determination to vote in favour of the amendment.
 Mr. Tierney  commenced by declaring, that upon entering the House that evening, it was his fixed intention not to address it. The noble lord, however, by indulging in the language which he had done, and by observing that any man who ventured to vote in favour of the amendment would be committing an insult both to the House and to the country, had made a call upon him to speak, which he found it totally impossible to resist. The noble lord had stated that the words which his right hon. friend had proposed to leave out of the amendment were not of the slightest importance. On that point, however, as on many others, he had the misfortune of differing with the noble lord; for he certainly thought that the omission of the words in question was of very great importance, as it rendered the amendment of such a nature as to deserve the unanimous support of the House. The noble lord had also stated, that the country was looking up to the wisdom of parliament! He felt compelled to observe that the country had been looking for a long time, indeed, up to that wisdom. But it was now beginning to look at the manner in which parliament sympathised with its feelings; and on the present occasion he trusted that hon. gentlemen would embrace the opportunity of regaining its respect and confidence. There was no difficulty in the proposition submitted to the House. The noble lord had indeed said, that there was great difficulty attached to it; but that was by no means the case. He therefore called upon gentlemen to exercise their
 82 83 l.; l., l. l. l. l. 84
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if he wanted any new argument to fix the vote which he had determined to give—if he wanted any additional reason to influence that vote, it had been abundantly furnished by the hon. baronet who spoke last, one of the representatives for the county of Kent, the most distressed of all the agricultural counties in England. The reasoning of the hon. baronet amounted to this—that nothing from any quarter, save the ministers, could hope for success in that House—that, be the quarter ever so respectable, be the measure ever so sound, be the
 89 90
 Mr. Brougham  said, that he, for one, if it had seemed good to the House, instead of putting off for an indefinite period, or even to the time to which the noble lord had referred them, the consideration of the unexampled distress which weighed down the agricultural interest, could have wished this, the first night of the session, not to pass without their attention being directly pointed to it. He felt more particularly anxious to have an opportunity of delivering his sentiments on this subject, because, from accidental circumstances, he had been prevented on former occasions from taking a part in the discussion of one of the measures—he meant the resumption of cash payments—to which, in his opinion, much—he would not say the whole—but a very large proportion of the present distress might be ascribed. He would, however, yield to what he took to be the sense of the House; namely, that they should not that night go into the discussion of this subject; and he would reserve himself for another opportunity, when he might fully state his sentiments. He did not mean to wait for the period which the noble lord had stated, because he did not understand the purport of his intended proposition, nor did he very clearly collect the time when it would be brought forward. He would, therefore, to-morrow, on the bringing up of the report, submit to the House an amendment, touching the present distressed state of the country, and that which, he would take leave to say, could afford the only effectual relief. He was confident, whether he regarded the nature of the evil or its causes, that the only specific remedy for it, in the present state of the country,
 46 47
 Mr. Grattan  could not refrain from trespassing shortly on the House, after what had been said regarding the state of Ireland. The visit of his majesty to that unhappy island was a most beneficial precedent, and would tend unquestionably to secure the loyalty and affection of its inhabitants. That great distress prevailed among them, was admitted on all hands; and so long as Ireland continued what she was, crimes, perhaps of the blackest die, were inevitable. The speech from the throne adverted to the inefficiency of the existing laws. He had the utmost dread of Insurrection acts. Ireland was like the poor wretch flogged by the drummer: let him strike where be would, he could not give satisfaction. The condition of a country so important, so populous, but so long despised and neglected, was most extraordinary: she was not visited by the curse of God, but of government. He would concur with the most violent gentlemen in Ireland, (where there were violent gentlemen enough) in punishing crime severely; but he hoped that the whole country would not be denounced for the offences of a few banditti. His countrymen had, like other people, their virtues and their vices; but the latter were greatly
 37 38 39
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, the time was now arrived when it was the duty of that House to enforce the severest retrenchment, and to relieve those whom they represented from a part of the burthens under which they were labouring. In the various discussions which must ensue,
 86
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, was surprised to hear his hon. friend express an opinion, that taxation was not the cause of agricultural distress. If taxation was not the cause of that distress, how happened it that the English farmer was unable to compete with the foreign, when the soil and climate of England and his own industry, fully entitled him to a remunerating price?
 Mr. Hume  said, he should be sorry to say any thing disorderly. As it was out of order to declare in that House that gentlemen came there to benefit not their country, but themselves, he would not say so; but he could not be prevented from thinking so.
 Mr. Hume  said, he should be happy at all times to bow to the decision of the Chair. As there were not only objections to his expressing the opinions which he held, but also to his entertaining them, he would no longer trespass on the attention of the House. The hon. gentleman concluded by moving the following amendment;
 "That while we return his Majesty our most grateful acknowledgments for the various reductions which have been made in the naval and military establishments during the last year, by which some diminution of expense may be effected, yet we should ill discharge the duty we owe to his Majesty, if we did not direct his most serious attention to the present condition of his faithful people: "That we feel it our duty to represent to his Majesty, that the distresses, proved to exist, before a committee of this House, instituted for the especial purpose in the last session of parliament, have considerably increased; and that the owners and occupiers of land throughout a great part of the kingdom, and with them the tradesmen and artizans usually dependent on them for employment, are labouring under unexampled difficulties: "That we cannot but express most respectfully to his Majesty our opinion, that an excessive taxation, disproportionate to the reduced value of all property, is a principal cause of those distresses; and humbly to in treat that he will be graciously pleased immediately to direct such reductions in every branch of our expenditure, from the highest to the lowest department, as shall enable us forthwith to relieve his Majesty's faithful people from a large portion of that burthen of taxation, which, in their present impoverished condition, presses so heavily upon all classes."
 Mr. Hume  said, he had no objection to the proposed alterations. His object was, to pledge the House to a reduction of the burdens of the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, that, in order to satisfy those gentlemen who wished for a pledge on the subject of retrenchment, he was prepared to introduce one. The proceedings in that House ought not to be guided by any man or any set of men. All ought to look to the distresses of the country, to the causes which led to them, and to the best mode by which effectual relief could be provided. He was anxious that the motion of the hon. baronet should be carried; but if it were negatived, he would immediately submit to the House an amendment to the address, and his reasons for proposing it. That amendment would constitute a pledge, which, he was sure, would be carried unanimously, if the House entertained a sincere desire to adopt an effectual system of retrenchment.
 Mr. Hume  upon his legs. He stated that the House was to consider that the Speech and the Address were both the production of his majesty's ministers; if they were not, he called upon the gentlemen opposite to deny the statement. If the hon. mover and seconder could, let them state that they did not receive the Address, and move  verbatim 48 49 50 51 l.; l.; l. l.; 52 l. 53
 Mr. Lennard  said, he had waited till the debate was on the point of concluding, in the hope that the object he had in view, in the observation he should make, would have been attained through the means of some member of greater importance than himself. He could not refrain from stating how much he lamented that in the promises of retrenchment which they had heard from the throne, no allusion had been made to a revision of the civil list. He thought that a reduction in that branch of the establishment would be very important, both on account of the actual saving which might be made in it, and because it would be an assurance of the sincerity of those professions of economy, which could not now be listened to by the House with much confidence. The true dignity of the Crown, would not, in his opinion, be at all impaired by a diminution, in this time of need, of the expenditure. On the contrary, he was sure the affections of the people would be more confirmed towards it, if his majesty, and those who composed his court, should show themselves ready to submit to those privations which the present circumstances made all other persons feel. Besides this, it was to be recollected that the civil list establishment had been formed when the value of money was not nearly what it now was. Concurring with the observation of the right hon. member for Knaresborough, that from the conduct of the House that night the country would receive an impression of its real disposition
 93
 Mr. Astell  would vote for the amendment, as it pledged the House to a system of retrenchment. If such a system were rigidly enforced, there would, he was convinced, be left a surplus of revenue to form a sinking fund.
 Mr. William Duncombe  rose to second the address. In doing so, he felt that he
 24 25 26 Per damna, per cædes, ab ipso Ducit opes animumque ferro.
 Mr. Huskisson  stated, that he did not intend to enter at large, on that occasion, into so important and complicated a subject as the distressed state of agriculture, or to consider how far taxation was one of its causes, and applied to it more than to any other part of the public interest. He must say with the hon. member for Wareham, that he could neither follow nor understand the figures of the hon. member for Aberdeen; but he intended to be a little more consistent, and therefore should not join in his conclusion. For that hon. member had stated, that he would give his opinion on the statements of the hon. mover of the amendment on a future occasion, but would give his vote in favour of them that night. This he himself could not do. He was surprised to hear it said, that the alterations in the amendment were important. They were by no means so; but merely of that ingenious nature, that was calculated to conciliate wavering members, and catch a
 85
 The Speaker  said, that he always felt it a painful duty to interrupt members, but it was his first duty to preserve order in that House. The orders of the House were made, not for the advantage of one
 70
 The Speaker  said, that the hon. member must on reflection, feel that such language was disorderly. It could not without a breach of order, be imputed to honourable members, that they entertained views contrary to the just discharge of their public duties.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, in explanation; that the learned gentleman had put such an interpretation upon what had fallen from him, as it could not in common fairness bear. It was not his intention to say any
 91
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, he felt some difficulty in deciding upon the course
 88
 Sir J. Newport  said, he would not oppose the address, as he understood that on Thursday the state of Ireland would be regularly brought before the House. It would then he matter for consideration, whether any farther measures were necessary for the purpose of strengthening the laws; and also, whether, if restrictive acts were resorted to, they ought not to be accompanied by others of a healing and conciliatory nature. He could not give his consent to any restrictive measure, unless it was accompanied by a measure of conciliation. His opinion, he was aware, would not carry much weight with it; but having for twenty sessions watched over the interests of Ireland, he could not let the present occasion pass without making this observation.
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that he was not prepared, in the absence of the fullest information, to go into the consideration of the important question which had been introduced, nor was he ready or willing to condemn at once, what, before, the House had so fully approved. He therefore, though he concurred in the general principle of the amendment, could not agree to those parts of it which went at once to destroy a system upon which they had already solemnly decided. Provided the hon. member consented to an omission of those passages, he would cordially support the amendment. The passages which he would wish to have omitted were these
 78
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the statement of the learned gentleman, of what had fallen from the hon. baronet, was the greatest misrepresentation of the drift of his argument that could possibly be conceived. The hon. baronet had objected to the amendment upon parliamentary and perfectly constitutional grounds. He felt that it was an attempt hastily to interpose between that House and the fair consideration of a most important question. The original address acknowledged, not only the necessity of retrenchment, but that steps had been taken to make all possible reductions. The hon. member for Aberdeen, however, was determined not to wait to see the extent of those reductions, but wished hastily to drag the House into a vague and general declaration, that it was expedient to reduce taxation to an extent which would be inconsistent with the security of the empire.
 Mr. Coke  rose to present a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the county of Norfolk—a county in which n agriculture was carried on at less expense, and more corn was grown on poor land, than in any other part of the kingdom. He was sorry to say that the state of that county, in consequence of the depression of the agricultural interest, was of the most heart-breaking description; and to no man did that circumstance give more pain than to himself, who had spent the greater part of his life in endeavouring to improve its condition. It was dreadful to behold the distress and alarm which pervaded every part of the county. The requisition calling upon the sheriff to convene the meeting, at which the petition which he held in his hand was agreed to, was signed only by the yeomanry;
 97
 Mr. Coke  apologized for having said
 98
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that the distress under which the agricultural interest in the county of Norfolk laboured was greater than at any former period. The petition prayed, and very properly, that reductions might take place, not only in the military and naval departments, but in every branch of the public expenditure. The petition called for a reduction of the civil list, and, in his opinion, such reduction ought to take place immediately. He did not expect that any great saving would be effected by the reductions which might be made, but such measure would conciliate the country, and this was an important object. The hon. member particularly urged the necessity of repealing the tax on malt. The petition concluded with a prayer for the reform of parliament. He confessed he did not know what was the nature of the reform that was asked for. Before he could give an opinion on the question, he must wait till it came before the House in a definite shape. His hon. colleague was in the habit of saying, that he never deceived his constituents. He did not know whether his hon. colleague meant to insinuate that others had not acted so uprightly as himself; but he thought his hon. colleague ought, in common manliness, to name the individual or individuals at whom he pointed.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, had not, as had been represented, been so callous or hard-hearted as to declare against the reduction of any taxes. What his right hon. friend had contended was, that the maintenance of public credit was the best means of reducing the burdens which pressed upon the country, and that a sweeping reduction of taxes, which would put public credit in jeopardy, must have a bad effect upon the general interests of the community. With respect to the question before the House, he thought the most reasonable course to pursue was, to wait to hear what retrenchment government intended to make before any measure was proposed similar to that brought forward by the hon. member for Aberdeen, which must have the effect of injuring public credit.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  rose, in pursuance of notice, to call the attention of the House to that part of his majesty's Speech which related to the internal state of Ireland. He trusted the House would think him sincere when he said, that he never had been called upon to perform any duty more painful to him, whether he contemplated it in his public or in his private character. From experience of the manner in which Ireland had conducted herself of late years, it was certainly to have been hoped, either that tranquillity would have been preserved, or if it were disturbed, that it might have been restored without the melancholy contemplation that it was necessary to repress outrage by the strong arm of power. It was a cause of additional distress to him, that it had fallen to his lot to bring forward this subject: it more properly belonged to right hon. friends, who, from their offices, were particularly responsible for the state of Ireland. He could not give a more pregnant proof of the urgency attaching to this business, than to state that he had felt it his duty, not merely at the instance of the administration on this side of the water, but at the express solicitation of the individual now charged with the government of Ireland, not to delay its introduction, until his right hon. friends, the secretary for Ireland, and the secretary for the home department, were able to assist in the deliberations of the House. He therefore threw himself on the indulgence of the House, while he performed a task distressing to himself, and which would come with greater weight and authority from those who were more immediately connected with the interior state of Ireland.—He would now endeavour to state, as shortly as possible, the nature of his propositions, and the
 105 Habeas Corpus Habeas Corpus 106 Habeas Corpus 107 108 109 110 111 112
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that determined as he was to oppose the two measures proposed by the noble lord, he was anxious that the motives by which he was actuated should not be subject to any misrepresentation. He was aware of the disgraceful outrages in Ireland, and he agreed with the noble lord as to the absolute necessity of putting them down; but he did not agree that the means proposed by the noble lord would have that effect. In the first place they were not authorised by any thing that was to be found in the papers which had been laid before the House. It appeared that bodies of insurgents, amounting to 2, 3, and 5,000 men, had been invariably dispersed by parties of the military not amounting to more than 30, 50, or 60 men. From these facts, he inferred, that if the powers of the magistracy were enforced by a sufficient number of troops, the insurrection might be effectually put down. The suspension of the Habeas Corpus act was a measure, in his opinion, by no means applicable to the present condition of Ireland; for such a measure was only called for in case of actual rebellion, or the apprehension of rebellion. There was nothing political in the disturbances of Ireland, whatever might be said of their extent or atrocity; and therefore he could not conceive either of the measures proposed by the noble lord likely to do any good in that country. The noble lord had quoted the precedent of 1803, for the proceeding which he at present pressed; but there was no analogy whatever between the two cases, the insurrection of 1803 being actually rebellion, while the persons concerned in it were of a very different description from those who now appeared to excite the conduct of the Irish peasantry. He agreed with the noble lord and others, that those who had violated the law should be punished for that violation; but then he would call for inquiry as to the causes which had driven the unfortunate peasantry to such acts of desperation. It must be recollected that none of the promises held out at the Union to the Irish nation had been realised. He did not mean the promises with respect to Catholic emancipation and other measures of great importance; but those of inquiry into the general condition of Ireland,
 118 119
 Lord Mountcharles  conceived, that nothing could have a prior claim upon the attention of parliament than the devising of measures for the suppression of actual rebellion; for it could not be disputed that Ireland was at present in that unhappy state; although the hon. member for Cork had expressed some doubt upon the subject, as if opposition to the king's troops did not amount to rebellion and treason. He differed very widely from the right hon. baronet respecting his conception of the White-boy act and the Insurrection act, as the distinction
 120 121
 Mr. Butler  said, he did not concur with the noble lord in thinking that strong measures, to the extent which he had demanded, were necessary to the suppression of the disorders in Ireland. It had been allowed on all hands, that they did not originate in politics or religion. Their origin was in local distress; and this he conceived was a reason why magistrates should not be impowered to act according to the terms of the Insurrection act. Those magistrates were not so often great landed proprietors as middlemen: and these men would, in case the Insurrection act passed, have, in the capacity of jurors, the power of transporting insolvent tenants—a power with which they ought not to be entrusted.
 Sir F. Burdett  expressed his surprise at the conduct of the noble lord, who, having for upwards of twenty years had the opportunity of knowing the real state of Ireland, of ascertaining the numerous evils which pressed upon her, and of becoming acquainted with their causes, had nevertheless neglected all inquiry, and delayed every remedy, until now that he called upon the House to put down by force, those mischiefs which he had thus negligently suffered to accumulate. He confessed lie did not see why the House should consent to go on with measures, which were thus used for a time, and then laid aside until they again became necessary. He was surprised that the noble lord should have the face to get up and call for the repetition of measures of dreadful oppression, without giving the legislature an opportunity of inquiring into the nature and origin of the evils for which these palliatives were required. Was it to be tolerated, that Ireland should know nothing of this country, but through bloodshed and the gibbet? He for one did not think that the evils of Ireland were to be remedied by such means; and that this was the prevalent opinion in the House, he was convinced from what he had heard on the present occasion. He perceived that every member who gave his support to the proposed measures, had done so with considerable reluctance, as if convinced that the remedy of the evil did not lie in them. He was glad to witness this sympathy, and he trusted those gentlemen would act up to its suggestions, by compelling the noble lord to do what he had so long neglected. It was said that the disturbances in Ireland did not arise from any political feelings. He firmly believed they did not. It was impossible that greater affection towards the sovereign could be evinced, or that a stronger sense could be entertained of the compliment paid them, than was shown by the Irish people in the recent visit of his majesty to their country. This feeling was not limited—it was general throughout the island. That visit had he believed, done some good; but it was impossible that his majesty should work miracles. Had ministers taken advantage of the royal visit, as they ought to have done—had they instituted measures for
 132 133 134
 Mr. D. Browne  said, that he should not feel himself justified in voting for so monstrous a measure as the Insurrection act, except upon the most clear and overpowering necessity. If it should be the pleasure of the House to pass it, he trusted they would immediately take into consideration the grievances by which Ireland had so long been afflicted.
 Mr. C. Grant  felt himself under the painful and melancholy necessity of acquiescing in the proposition before the House. It was about a year and a half since he had the honour of stating to the House his sentiments respecting the act in question. Those sentiments he stilt retained. He was as hostile as ever to making such an act a part of the permanent system under which Ireland was to be governed. He maintained this opinion; but he also maintained, as he always had done, that an exigency might
 137 138
 Lord Ebrington  objected to the proposed measures, because he saw nothing in the papers laid before the House to call for them. There was not a single sentence in the communication of the lord lieutenant which could be construed into a call for any extraordinary powers, much less for such frightful and oppressive measures as those now before the House. Until he came into the House that evening, lie was not aware of the powers conferred by the Insurrection act: but, having heard the nature of that act, as well as the description of magistrates to whom its operation was to be entrusted, he felt himself bound to oppose it. He would ask the House, how they could entrust to such men, as the Irish magistrates were described to be, the power of at once transporting any individual who was found absent from his house between sunset and sun-rise? He was ready to go as
 139
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the course which the hon. and learned gentleman had taken, imposed upon him the necessity of stating a few reasons in
 145 146 147 148 149
 The Marquis of Londonderry  expressed a wish, that the hon gentleman would allow the bill to pass its several stages that night, so that it might be sent up to the other House to-morrow, receive the royal sanction on Saturday, and be transmitted to Ireland this week. The hon. gentleman could not, he thought, gravely persist in his motion of adjournment.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, as the learned gentleman intended to employ those forms which might stop the passing of the Insurrection bill that night, he would not press it, but would only beg that the other bill might be allowed without opposition to pass through the same stages, that both might proceed together.
 Mr. Robert Clive  appeared at the bar, with the report of the Address on the King's Speech. On the motion that it be brought up,
 Mr. G. Dawson  rose, principally with a view to notice the observations of a right hon. baronet, respecting his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State for the home department (Mr. Peel). The right hon. baronet had referred to a resolution proposed by him in 1817, for an inquiry into the evils with which Ireland was then afflicted, and which resolution had been opposed by his right hon. friend. The right hon. baronet must have forgotten that his right hon. friend had proposed several Committees in the course of that very year, all having for their object the relief of Ireland from the subjects of complaint. He need only mention the Committee relating to Distillation, and that respecting Grand Jury Presentments. And, because his right hon. friend had, at the end of a session, declined adopting a sweeping motion of the right hon. baronet he was now accused of an indisposition to remove the evils alluded to. He was unable to judge, from the speech of the right hon. baronet, whether he intended to support the present bill or to oppose it, but it certainly would be most extraordinary if he did not support it. He had, in
 130
 Mr. Brougham  said, he never dreamt of conferring dictatorial power on the marquis Wellesley or on any other man. What he said was, that sooner than give extraordinary power to the local magistrates, he would give extraordinary, nay, dictatorial power for temporary purposes, to the noble marquis, placed at the head of the government, and responsible for his acts.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he could assure his right hon. friend opposite (Mr. Grant) that it would have given him great satisfaction if he could have agreed with him in the view he had taken of this question, especially as his right hon. friend was informed by long experience, and enlightened by large and liberal views of our true policy towards Ireland—views which did him immortal honour, which had conferred great benefits upon the kingdom, and which would have conferred still greater, had his official residence there been prolonged. Indeed, he felt that the impression which his right hon. friend's speech had made upon the House was only to be exceeded by the favourable impression which he had left with the inhabitants of the sister kingdom. He was happy, however, to reflect, that the difference between himself arid his right hon. friend was not great. It extended only to the vote, and not to the principle on which that vote was to be given. He agreed with his right hon. friend, that any confidence which might be demanded for the noble marquis, at present at the bead of time Irish government, was strictly his due, considering his high talent, his energy as a governor, or the enlightened principles on which he had commenced, and no doubt would continue, his administration. It was because the proposed measures were not indicative of confidence in the noble marquis—it was because they did not apply to the evil the remedy which was required—it was because, if they were necessary (which had been loudly asserted, thought not satisfactorily proved), he would much rather arm him with such powers by a specific vote of confidence, than apply a measure which was not the specific remedy for the mischiefs now devastating Ireland, that he felt himself obliged to withhold his concurrence from his right hon. friend. He would briefly state his objections to the measure in question; and first, as to the manner of hurrying it through all its stages in one
 140 141 142 143 144
 Mr. Brougham  said, he need not remind the House that it was as fitting for him to make the observations which he had made upon the hon. member's speech, as it was within the scope of the hon. member's duty to make that speech. He had as perfect a right to state his unbiassed sentiments upon the public conduct of the hon. member, provided he made use of no misrepresentation, as the hon. member had to hold that conduct. If he misunderstood the hon. member, it was open to the hon. member to set him right by
 100
 Mr. Abercromby  begged to state shortly the reasons by which his vote would be influenced. In the first place, no sufficient ground had been laid for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. To a large proportion of the people of Ireland, the noble marquis had himself admitted, that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act would be inapplicable. The higher and the educated classes were, by the noble marquis's own assertion, loyal; and yet parliament was now called upon to suspend the liberties of the people of Ireland in a way that would affect equally the loyal and disloyal, the Protestant and the Catholic, the inhabitant of the North and of the South of the Island. In the total absence of all proof of the necessity of such a proceeding, no conscientious man could, in his opinion, vote for it. He confessed himself very much disappointed at the meagreness of the papers which had been laid on the table. When the noble lord described them as dispatches from marquis Wellesley, he expected they would be found to contain a comprehensive view of the causes of the present discontents. Instead of that, they resembled a newspaper journal of events. In no part of them did the noble marquis state the principles, the motives, and the views of the discontented. But the noble lord opposite contended, that nothing further should be asked after his declaration that the country was in rebellion. That there were very serious disturbances in various parts of Ireland was too manifest; but they were not of a character to which the common acceptation of the term rebellion could be applied. On the contrary, he understood, by recent accounts, from persons on whom he could rely, that the insurrection in Ireland, especially near Cork,
 135 136
 Mr. Grattan  was persuaded, that coercive measures of every description would; in the end, be found ineffectual. They might bang and shoot the people, but the evil would still go on; and as for giving increased power to the magistracy he had no hesitation in saying, that constituted as the present magistracy were; he should prefer seeing a kill for de-
 131
 Mr. Curwen  said, that although it might be held in the House, that no member was at all pledged by the contents of the address, yet, as that sort of doctrine was not well understood in the country, he wished to make a few remarks, lest by silence it might be inferred that he for one placed any confidence in his majesty's ministers. In his conscience he believed that ministers were not fully apprised of the extent of the distresses of the agriculturists. Little, therefore, could be expected from them; and what had entitled any man to hope any thing, or at least any thing adequate to the existing evil, from that House, he could not determine. Great sacrifices had been and must be made by individuals; and he had been much disappointed by the Speech, when he found that it contained nothing to lead to the supposition that the Crown would be ready to follow, though not to set such an example. He was glad, therefore, that notice of a motion had been given, the object of which was, to compel the Crown to diminish its expenditure. Ministers had required, that the vote for the Address should be unanimous; but were they in a situation to expect unanimity? They differed amongst themselves most importantly; at least, what had fallen from the Secretary of the Treasury did not at all accord with the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a former night. The House had distinctly understood the latter to assert, that nothing could be more injurious than to reduce the amount of taxation. Did he still retain that opinion, or, within the last eight and forty hours, had he seen reason to alter it? It seemed quite clear, either that the currency must be altered, or the taxes be reduced; and in his own view, after the important change in the circulating medium recently effected, the abandonment of it was highly to be deprecated. He did not ask that agriculture should be preserved at the expense of manufactures; and he admitted, that to raise the price of grain by artificial means at the present moment would be injurious to the improved commercial condition. He required only such a reduction of taxes affecting the farmer, as would put him on
 103 104
 Mr. Lockhart  contended, that some speedy measures of relief must be adopted to prevent the total ruin of the agricultural interest. It was said by some persons, that public credit and the agricultural interest must stand or fall together—that the stockholder and the agriculturists must go hand in hand. But, how did they go hand in hand? The rentals of the kingdom had been reduced from fifty-one millions, to ten millions, whilst the public creditor still received the same amount of interest as formerly. He did not attribute any callosity of heart to ministers; but he believed their judgment was not sound. They contended that the maintenance of public credit would, of itself, afford relief to the agriculturist. He believed the converse of that proposition to be true. He implored the House to con-
 101
 Mr. Hume  was sure the hon. gentleman could not have read the amendment which he had felt it his duty to submit to the House. It did not propose to reduce taxation so as to endanger the public credit. Indeed, he had already disclaimed any such intention. The amendment simply proposed, that reduction should not be confined to one or two, but should extend itself to all departments. He had certainly understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to say, "Do not reduce taxation, for that will aggravate the burdens of the country." He was happy, however to receive the explanation which ministers had thought proper to give, after eight and forty hours deliberation; though he believed that the declaration of his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney), that ministers, whatever they might say, would be compelled to reduce the taxes, had conduced to bring it about.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the noble marquis a question upon the subject on which all the House were united. He could assure the noble marquis, that he had never heard a single person who did not concur in opinion, as to the necessity of taking into serious consideration the system of tithes in Ireland. The tithe system, both in this country and in Ireland, had for many months past occupied his most serious attention. He had carefully examined every parliamentary document connected with the subject; and he asked the noble marquis, who now proposed measures of coercion with respect to Ireland, whether he would support a motion for a committee to inquire into the tithe system and the church establishment of Ireland? He offered the noble marquis and the House his services on this subject, the importance of which was announced by every post and every paper from that country. He wished, therefore, to know whether he should receive the noble lord's support in the motion which, at a very early period, he should feel it his duty to make on the subject?
 Captain O'Grady  said, he wished to state his grounds for voting in favour of the proposed measures. He had been residing in a county since the last session which was by far the most disturbed of any in Ireland. He lamented that disturbance, and the circumstances which had contributed to its origin and progress; but, for many reasons, he was of opinion that the insurrection act was necessary to its suppression, though the strongest measure that could be devised without amelioration would not effectually answer the purpose. The disturbance, he was con-
 127 128 129
 Mr. Denman  said, he would oppose the passing of the bill that night, if the noble lord persisted in his determination of pressing it. Such a measure as this, involving the liberties and rights of a great country, ought not to pass like a bill, to which no objections could be made, and on which no information was required. Powers like those granted by this bill ought not to be granted without the fullest deliberation. If the noble lord persisted in his motion, he would employ the forms of the House to prevent such a precipitate vote.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he should feel bound to take the sense of the House upon the bill now going into a committee.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that he should ill discharge his duty if he did not take occasion to express his opinion upon this subject, especially from his local connection with the district to which the discussion mainly referred. He felt some difficulty in determining how to proceed when the noble secretary of state so confidently declared, "You must pass these two coercive measures, or the insurrection in Ireland cannot be put down, and this you must do without any inquiry into the cause of that insurrection." He was as willing as any man to join in putting down rebellion or insurrection; but he must say, that it would be consolatory to his mind as an Irishman and a friend to common justice, to hear from the noble proposer of these measures, that an inquiry as to the state of Ireland was to be instituted before such measures were passed. The noble lord had stated, that such an inquiry would be gone into at a future time, while he called upon the House to agree to his propositions of coercion merely upon the authority of the papers before the House. But he could not admit that the papers on the table by any means proved the necessity of the measures alluded to, while the authority of lord Wellesley did not appear in evidence, any more than the grounds upon
 122 123 124 125 126
 The Speaker  said, he was sure that a moment's reflection would convince the hon. member that he had transgressed the limits of fair debate.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that after the pointed allusion which the hon. member had made to him, and the reproof to which he had been subjected, he felt it, his duty to explain what he conceived to be a very considerable misrepresentation of what he had said on a former evening, and to deny  in toto 99
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he had lost no opportunity to collect information on the nature and extent of the disturbances in Ireland, and he had come to the decision, that nothing short of the measures proposed could put them down: these measures had become absolutely necessary. He would not at present enter into a detail of the circumstances which justified them; but he must say, that the papers referred to by the noble lord, did not go to the full explanation of the extent of the evil. In voting for these measures, he begged to be understood that lie did not agree with the noble lord as to the condition on which these measures of severity were: to be passed. He thought some time ought to be given to an investigation of the causes which had led to such disastrous results. He was quite satisfied that whatever success attended the proposed measures in the first instance, it would be of a temporary character. If permanent tranquillity was to be obtained, the House must go into an early inquiry as to the circumstances which have led to the existing state of tumult and disorder.
 Sir J. Newport  hoped the House would feel, after the appeal which had been so pointedly made to him by the noble lord, that it was absolutely necessary for hint to make a few observations. If the noble lord, in his high situation, upheld as he was by a powerful train of supporters felt it necessary to throw himself on the indulgence of the House for a patient hearing, how much more reason had he to entreat their indulgence, whilst he stated as briefly as possible, his opinion on this vital question. However painful might be the feelings which the noble lord stated as actuating him on this occasion, he could assure
 113 114 115 116 117
 Mr. Alderman Wood  rose to present a Petition from Thomas Hunt, the son of Mr. Henry Hunt, at present a prisoner in Ilchester gaol. The petitioner complained, that he had been prevented from visiting his father. The alderman said, he understood, that Mr. Hunt had been placed in a very extraordinary situation: he had been precluded from all intercourse even with his solicitor or his son. Mr. Hunt had likewise been very ill, and was prevented from obtaining medical aid so early as the necessity of the case required; the medical gentleman who attended the prison living at the distance of five miles. There were some rules made for the regulation of the prison under an act of parliament. It was necessary, before those rules could be enforced, that they should be signed by two or three judges. The rules bad been in existence for several years; but whether it was that they were considered too severe, or from any other reason, he could not say, but the judges had never signed them until some time since, during the last session of parliament. It certainly appeared very extraordinary, that rules, which had not been signed for so many years, should all at once be signed and put in practice. The petitioner set forth, that his father was debarred from all intercourse with his family, and his medical attendant. The House might be aware, that Mr. Hunt had made an application to the court of King's Bench, and that the court had made an order, that Mr. Hunt should see his solicitor and his surgeon; but beyond that, he was to receive no indulgence. He had not seen the rules, but he understood they were very severe. Mr. Hunt was placed at an iron grating, and was allowed to see his friends only once for a short time in the 24 hours. It ought to be remembered,
 152
 The Solicitor-General  said, that the individual whose petition was before the House had made an application to the Court of King's-Bench, complaining that his father was not allowed to have intercourse with his solicitor, or with his medical adviser. The moment this communication was made to the court, the judges me, to determine upon what course of proceeding it would be necessary to pursue. The result of their deliberation was, the issuing of an order, the object of which was, to cause an investigation into the circumstances which formed the subject of complaint. That investigation was pending, and the moment the evidence arrived, it would form the subject of consideration with the court of King's-Bench; and if it should appear that there had been any improper conduct on the part of the gaoler, or any other individual connected with the gaol, the court would doubtless correct it.
 Sir E. Burdett  said, that the subject before the House was one of the most important that could occupy its attention. What the Solicitor-general had stated with respect to the proceedings of the court of King's Bench was all very well; but there still existed a question for the consideration of parliament. Surely the individual was not to be confined in the manner stated, until he could obtain an order from the court of King's-Bench. The sentence which had been passed upon Mr. Hunt was, under all the circumstances
 153 154 155
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that the magistrates had the power of making regulations for their several gaols, and when they were certified by the judges they became the law for the government of those gaols. He complained of the mode in which the hon. baronet had impugned the sentence passed upon Mr. Hunt. If that sentence was improper, it should have been made the subject of regular discussion; but the hon. baronet had thought fit now for the first time, and in an indirect manner, to load it with unqualified reprobation. The individual alluded to had himself sought out the quarter, where he would find redress; he had appealed to the court of King's-Bench, that very Court which the hon. members opposite were now holding up to obloquy. But they ought to remember that at the period when the crime, of which that sentence was the punishment, was committed, this country was in a state similar to that of Ireland at the present moment. The state of the manufacturing districts made it necessary to let the country know the strength of the law. The offence was most serious, and the judges had done their duty fearlessly. Nay, it appeared that the country would support the law; for according to the hon. baronet, Mr. Hunt had been acquitted by the judge, but condemned by the jury.
 Mr. Bennet  wished to know who those magistrates or judges were, who had made the order complained of. He was confident there were no gaol-rules which would authorize a gaoler to act as the gaoler of Mr. Hunt had acted. What! prevent him from seeing his solicitor, or his son? Gracious God! he should have thought it impossible that any men, having the feelings of fathers, could have proposed such an order. They were told that the court of King's-Bench would consider the matter; but, the question was, by what right the orders complained of were originally made? He would take it upon him to say, that no law had ever been passed which would authorize such orders. It could not be pretended that the measures which had been adopted
 156
 Sir T. Lethbridge  maintained, that nothing but the indulgence granted to Mr. Hunt had led to the complaints of which the House had already heard too much. If he had been treated like other prisoners charged with similar offences, all the troubles that had lately arisen would have been avoided. As to the magistracy of Somerset, they were a body of men incapable of acting from impure or unworthy motives, and were as respectable a bench as any in the kingdom. With respect to the petition, if any ulterior proceeding were proposed he should steadily oppose it; for he thought it unconstitutional for that House to attempt to reverse the sentence of a court of law.
 Mr. Hothouse  said, he should be glad to be informed whether Mr. Hunt's son was to be considered as an improper person to have access to him. With regard to the female in question, he knew nothing of her, and he would not stand up in that House to defend immoral conduct; but he would say that exclusion from the society of that female was no part of Mr. Hunt's sentence. The hon. baronet had attributed much of the mischief to the concessions which had been made to Mr. Hunt. Was the removing of the thumbscrews a concession? Or was it in the eyes of the hon. baronet a mischief? Surely, the hon. baronet could not have known of the existence of these practices, or he never would have justified such conduct. In a list of sentences for political libels he observed a judgment upon one man of four years and a half. This was a sentence unknown even in the atrocious times of Charles the 1st. It had been said that an improper time was selected for the present complaint, but, in his opinion, complaints of such a nature ought to be brought forward at all times. He thought ministers would be highly culpable if they did not send down an order to relax the severities complained
 158
 The Attorney General  said, that the hon. member for Shrewsbury, had made a most unwarrantable and unprovoked attack upon the judges of the court of King's Bench. If the gentlemen opposite entertained the opinion they had expressed, why had they not brought forward a specific charge. The hon. member for Westminster had selected a case of heavy punishment for political libel. He (Mr. Attorney General) did not know the case, but he presumed it was that of the "much injured." Carlile. That individual had been punished, not for one libel, but for a series of libels of the most aggravated description, The hon. member for Westminster was mistaken in supposing that Mr. Justice Bayley, who tried Mr. Hunt, did not expect a conviction. The charge of that learned judge to the jury, impartial as it was, clearly showed the opinion of the judge upon the count in the indictment on which the jury returned a verdict. Mr. Hunt had had a most impartial trial: he was tried in a county of his own selection, by a jury of his own selection, and after the trial he had complimented the judge on the impartiality he had displayed on the trial. And now that learned judge was arraigned for the sentence he had afterwards passed. To remove any doubt as to the opinion of Mr. Justice Bayley on the case itself, it would be only necessary to refer to the language of the sentence, which declared that the offence approached very nearly to the crime of high treason. Perhaps the hon. gentlemen opposite thought the Manchester meeting was legal. [Hear.] But the jury, the judges, and the majority of tile country thought otherwise. However it was unnecessary to discuss that question at the present moment. All that he complained of was, that the hon. member had not brought the subject before parliament in a proper shape. With respect to the rules of the prison, he did not profess to know any thing about them; but he knew that the moment Mr. Hunt complained to the court of King's-bench by letter, that court had made an order, for giving him redress; a circumstance which
 159
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, it was not Carlile's case to which he bad alluded, though he knew very well the motive of the learned member in mentioning Carlile with reference to him. The case he alluded to was, a sentence passed, not by the court of King's-bench, but by the quarter-sessions.
 The Attorney General  declared, upon his honour, that he had no motive whatever in mentioning the name of Carlile, with reference to the hon. member. As the hon. member was complaining of the conduct of the court of King's-bench, and as the case of Carlile was that in which the court had passed the heaviest of its sentences, he naturally concluded that his was the case alluded to.
 Lord Folkestone  said, he felt himself imperiously called upon to enter his protest against the measures proposed by the noble marquis. His right hon. friend had thought proper to wave his objections to the proposed measures, on the ground of his great confidence in the disposition and character of the marquis Wellesley. But for himself, he must say, that upon no authority whatever could he deem it consistent to invest any individual with such authority as these measures were meant to create. Where was the evidence of lord Wellesey's authority for the adoption of
 164 165 166 ipse dixit 167 168
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, the noble lord had thought fit to assert, that the declaration of a minister of the Crown, in his place in parliament, was not to be received as evidence—that the House ought not to legislate upon it. He, however, begged leave to combat that position. A minister of the Crown making a statement in his place, and pledging his official responsibility for its accuracy, was as liable to be challenged and impeached, if his statement were incorrect, as if he had laid a false dispatch on the table of the House. If a minister could so far forget himself as to assert that which was not matter of fact, his conduct would deserve the severest animadversion, and would be justly visited by the contempt and detestation of mankind. And surely the man who could have the hardihood to proclaim a false fact to the House, would be equally capable of forging a dispatch. He, therefore, questioned the noble lord's constitutional authorities on this subject. This
 169 170 171
 Dr. Lushington  said, that in whatever view he contemplated this obnoxious bill, be never could recognize the necessity for its enactment, nor believe that it was calculated to work the result which its supporters anticipated. It was, in the first place, very extraordinary, that the noble marquis, on the discussion of the King's Speech, had not betrayed the slightest indication of the measures proposed. He would go further, and state his belief that, up to Tuesday night, the noble marquis had not made up his mind on the subject. But last night the noble marquis was determined; he proceeded to the accomplishment of his object with a diligence not, as it would seem, proportioned to the necessity of the case, but to the expedition of the engrosser. If the urgency was so pressing in the minds of the king's ministers, how came it that no order had been given to the clerk to take a copy of the bill from the Statute-book. It was impossible, therefore, for him not to doubt the necessity for such a bill, even from the conduct of the noble marquis himself. But, after he bad determined on the measure, what had the noble lord done to induce the House to accede to it? He had referred it to the papers placed on the table, and to a justifiable confidence in the character of the marquis Wellesley. With respect to the papers, he would admit that they contained information of outrages in different counties of Ireland. To check such acts of insubordination some remedial measures were admitted to be necessary; but he never could believe that either prevention or remedy could be found in an Insurrection bill, or any bill of a similar tendency. Far better, in his contemplation, would be the prompt interposition of the constitutional tribunal of those special commissions which should be forthwith assembled at Limerick, Cork and Tralee, prepared
 172 173 174 l. 175
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he must repeat what he had stated last night; namely, that no case had been made out to justify either of the present measures. What he should recommend would be an increase of military force. The hon. member here read several extracts from the dispatches of marquis Wellesley, in order to shew, that in all the contests between the people and the soldiery, the latter, though twenty-fold greater in number, uniformly gave way and fled. From this he argued, that nothing but an increased military force was necessary to suppress the outrages altogether. God forbid that, in saying this, he should be thought to under-value
 180
 Colonel Davies  was of opinion that the present bills were necessary to put down the existing disturbances; but when that effect was produced, he thought they ought to be followed up by investigation and conciliatory measures.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  opposed the clause, and observed that it was understood the sittings of the commission should be from day to day, and that the difficulty respecting the taking of bail could not be so great as the hon. member had stated it to be.
 Mr. Calcraft  felt it necessary to state, the reasons upon which his vote would be founded. He had yesterday come down to the House with a strong bias upon his mind on this question; and, from all that he had since heard, he felt it his painful duty to state, that, however he might be compelled to differ from many of his friends, he should compromise his judgment if he declined to support the proposed measures. He must say, that in the many eloquent speeches which he had heard upon this question, gentlemen dwelt much upon the horrors of the Insurrection act, and the unconstitutional doctrine of suspending the Habeas Corpus act, while they kept out of sight the barbarous atrocities which made such measures necessary. He admitted that both measures were unconstitutional; but
 177 178
 Sir F. Burdett  expressed a hope that ministers, before they passed it, would pledge themselves to the Irish nation to pursue a conciliatory line of policy in future, and not to introduce a bill of indemnity, to shelter the outrages which might be committed under it.
 The Attorney-General  said, it was agreed on all hands, that the state of Ireland was such as to require vigorous measures of some kind or other. The hon. gentlemen opposite seem to think that the application of an additional military force was the best remedy that could be adopted. For himself, he thought, that however all might deplore the necessity of such a measure, the best course was, to renew an act from which the most beneficial effects had formerly resulted. In answer to that part of his learned friend's speech, in which he asserted that several courts of magistracy might be sitting simultaneously in the same county, he begged to refer him to the bill, in which he would find that only one special session could sit in a county at one time. At that session, therefore, either a king's serjeant or a king's counsel, or at least an assistant barrister, who must have been six years at the bar, would preside, and give to the magistrates the benefit of his legal knowledge. As to the question of indemnity, the bill gave no greater indemnity than the general law in England already involved.
 The Attorney-General  said, that in England this power was given to the magistrates by a a specific act of parliament; but it was not so in Ireland.
 The Solicitor-General  did not understand that the government was to provide for the attendance of a king's serjeant, or counsel; but, if he happened to be there, he was to preside. If neither was there, then the court would be formed by the magistrates and the assistant barrister. By the constitution of the courts of Ireland, the assistant barrister, in such a case, would preside; and, therefore, any further provision on this subject was unnecessary.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  declared his dislike to the principle of creating a local magistracy, for a temporary purpose.
 Mr. Bright  contended, that an act by which the constitution was overturned for the time, ought to be so worded as to admit of no doubt whatever with respect to
 184
 Mr. Brougham  was surprised to hear that magistrates in Ireland had been left so unprotected as to make this special provision necessary.
 Mr. Brougham  said, his learned friend had stated, that the clause in question gave no more protection to the magistrates in Ireland than was already given to him by the law in England. If this was the case, there could be no harm in leaving out the clause altogether.
 Mr. Lockhart  could not agree, that to pass these bills was to sacrifice the constitution of this country. The constitution was already sacrificed in many of the districts of Ireland under the most aggravating circumstances, by those against whom the measures were directed. These persons had set at defiance the constitution, by secret nightly meetings, and by carrying fire and sword into the dwellings of defenceless innocence. The measures might not be exactly what many members hon. members might wish, but if their
 176
 Mr. Denman  then proposed to omit the clause for the indemnity of persons carrying the Act into effect. Upon which the House divided; Ayes 30. Noes 109,
 185
 Mr. Denman  said, that the bill contained a clause which was equivalent to a bill of indemnity. He then proceeded to observe upon the precipitancy with which the bills were forwarded through the House, by which members who expected an exposition were taken by surprise. It was certainly the first duty of parliament to put down insurrection, and repress the violence of men who were misled by their own passions or those of others; the only question was, whether the present measures were applicable to the case, or whether other measures more effective to that
 182 183
 Mr. S. Rice  said, he had attended every court of special commission in his county and had found that delays of days, weeks,
 181
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that if the right hon. baronet had given his authority to the bills, he would have yielded to that authority; but the right hon. baronet had rested his assent on his confidence in the head of the Irish government. Now, be neither joined in this confidence, nor disclaimed it. Facts and circumstances, and not confidence in any man or set of men, formed the ground of his conduct. He admitted the pressure of the evil, but the Suspension bill was not at all applicable to it. The Insurrection act, if modified, might be found a remedy. If no jury could be found to act, he would have voted for the bill as it was. But juries had acted and done their duty at Limerick. On the bringing up of the report, he would propose a clause to enable the king's serjeant to admit to bail. He would also propose a clause to enable the crown to authorize persons in remote or detached districts to act as justices of the peace. With respect to juries, he would propose to commit the alternative of trying by jury or not to the king's serjeant, who was divested of local passions and animosities.
 Mr. Dickinson  denied, that any of the complaints of Mr. Hunt arose out of ill-treatment he received because he had occasioned the recent investigation and exposure at Ilchester. With regard to the rules of which so much had been said, it was proper to observe, that though they had existence they had no operation at the time Mr. Hunt was first sent to the gaol: they had been long prepared, but had never been signed by any of the judges. They had been postponed from assize to assize, by the different judges; and Mr. Justice Burrough and Mr. Justice Holroyd having declined to inspect them, they had very recently met with the approval and signature of Mr. Baron Graham and Mr. Justice Best. He had waited upon Mr. Justice Best with the rules, and had pointed out particularly the effect of one of them upon Mr. Hunt, who wished to be visited by what he called his family, which meant nothing else than that he
 157
 Mr. Lamb  said, he was inclined to support the proposed measures, upon the ground of the confidence which he reposed in the open statement of ministers. He had heard gentlemen say, on former occasions, that nothing was more abominable than any proposal to parliament upon secret papers, or a sealed bag. It was said, that ministers ought to ask for additional powers upon their own responsibility. This was his opinion; and he was ready, to support the proposed measures from his confidence both in ministers and in the noble lord at the head of the Irish government. He did not agree in the allusions thrown out against that noble lord at an early part of the evening, though it was not his intention at that moment to enter into a defence of the noble lord's conduct in India. This, however, he must say, that that noble lord was not more distinguished for energy of character, than for a zealous and ardent love of public liberty and an anxious desire to advance the interests and happiness of that part of the empire committed to his care. Much, however, as he esteemed and respected that noble lord, he was not, in this instance reposing in him a confidence greater than he should be inclined to bestow upon any other lord lieutenant placed in the same situation, and to whom he had no reason to object on other grounds. He had heard from the gentleman who represented the sister country, that a present and efficacious remedy was necessary, and that, therefore, they should not delay the proposed measures. With respect to the melancholy situation in which Ireland was now placed, and the conclusions to be drawn from that situation, he fully concurred in what had fallen from several hon. gentlemen last night. Many severe reflections had been made upon the noble marquis opposite respecting the government of Ireland. It was true that as far as the evils were known to exist, and the remedies were within the power of the noble lord, he was responsible for not having applied them. But it should be recollected, that evils often took their rise from circumstances, over which neither the noble lord, nor the laws, nor the parliament could have any immediate control. They were told, in the present instances, that bad government and misrule, that: bad laws and bad institutions, had produced the present character of the deluded
 179
 Sir I. Coffin  was merely desirous of saying, that when he formerly bore testimony to the character of the keeper of Ilchester gaol, he had not the slightest suspicion that thumb-screws were ever employed in it.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that he understood, from the noble lord opposite, that the noble marquis at the head of the Irish government had recommended the adoption of the Insurrection bill and of the Habeas Corpus suspension bill, without alteration or modification; and having in every former transaction of that noble person's life admired his talents and entertained the highest opinion of his public conduct, he was disposed to wave his own opinion, and not to press for the modification of measures which, it was said, the noble marquis demanded without modification. He took this course, also, on the conviction, that if he were to persist in calling for modifications, and if the House gave way to his representations, then, should the measure be found inapplicable to the present state of Ireland (as, however modified, he believed it would be), he should be accused of having rendered the act inoperative by the introduction of those modifications. Under such circumstances, the responsibility (and an awful responsibility it was) rested with the head of the Irish government, who required these measures in their most potent form.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that in rising to address the House after the long, the able, and elaborate speech of the hon. and learned member, he could assure them, that if he felt convinced of the truth of the proposition which had been laid down (in no very practical or intelligible shape he must admit), he would at once accede to it. The hon. and learned member had certainly a right
 260 261 262 263 264 265 266
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that those classes of the community who were in distress, would no doubt feel much surprised when they learned, that instead of considering those distresses, ministers were considering the situation of gentlemen at the Opposition side of the House, with reference to their own. The noble lord seemed astonished that such a motion should have been introduced in the absence of full information as to the intentions and plans of ministers. Now, he contended, that a sufficient knowledge of their
 267 l. l. 268 269 270 "—along, both heart and mind, A fellow-feeling made them wond'rous kind."
 Mr. Ricardo  denied that taxation was the cause of the present agricultural distress. A country might, he said, be totally without taxes, and yet in the exact situation that England was at present. It was consistent enough in those who thought that the restoration of the currency had made a change of 50 or 56 per cent. in the value of money, and had consequently increased the actual value of the taxes in that proportion, though their nominal amount still remained the same, to say that taxation was the chief cause of the distressed state of agriculture; but it was impossible for those who held that the restoration in the currency had not created any thing like so great a change, to accede to such a statement. From the line of argument which his hon. and learned friend had pursued in one part of his speech, he was afraid that his hon. and learned friend was going to prove, that the very taxation which he wished to reduce was a source of benefit to the nation. His hon. and learned friend had stated, that the manufacturers of leather, on account of the tax on it, largely increased its price to the consumer, and derived so much benefit thereby as to be ready to represent it to parliament as a very useful and beneficial tax. Surely, by a parity of analogy, the agricultural interest, burdened as it was by taxation, might petition parliament against a reduction of it, since it was as much in their power as in that of the leather-manufacturer, to make it useful in enhancing the price of their commodity to the consumer. His hon. and learned friend had, however, drawn a very nice distinction—so nice indeed, that, for his own part, he was not gifted with ability to discern it—between the circumstances in which the leather-manufacturer and those in which the agriculturist was placed. He had said, that, in the case of the manufacturer, the taxation was paid by the consumer; but that in the case of the agriculturist, it was paid by the seller, and could not be charged to the consumer. He could wish his hon. and
 271 272
 Mr. Brougham  rose to reply; and principally for the purpose of defending himself against the charge of inconsistency, which the noble marquis had brought against him. The noble marquis had stated that he was not justified in finding fault with the extravagance of our military expenditure, seeing that he had been a
 273 l. l. l. l. 274 275 ultimunz supplicium
 Mr. Brougham,  in rising to bring before the House the present distressed state of the agricultural, and the other classes of the community, said, he was well aware that he had undertaken an arduous task. He was aware, also, that there were many gentlemen to whom it could have been much better in trusted; and if his hon. friend, the member for Essex (Mr. Western) had not been prevented by indisposition, although differing from him materially in opinion, he should have been well satisfied to have left it in his bands. Between himself and many others, indeed, with whom he had conversed upon the subject, the discordance was so wide, that he found it impossible to avoid himself bringing it forward. He did so at the risk of all disadvantages, of which no man was more sensible, but for the purpose of preserving consistency with the opinions he had formerly entertained and expressed, and which, God knew, in subsequent years, but especially in 1816, 1817, and 1818,had been most wofully confirmed. He feared that, in what be should say, it would be his misfortune to give little satisfaction to any of the great interests of the empire. He hardly entertained a hope that the
 221 222 223 224 225 226 227 228 l. l.; l. l. l., l. 229 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 230 231 l.; 232 l. 233 l. l.; l. l. l. 234 l.; l.; l. l., l. l. l.; ., l., l., l. l.: l., l. l., l., l. 235 l. datum l. s. d. l. s. 236 l. s. d l. l. l. l.: l. l. l. s. d., l. 237 l., l., l. l. l. 238 l. l. l. l. l.: 239 l., s. d. s. d., s. s., s., s. s. d. s. 240 d., d., d. 241 l. l., l. l. l. l. 242 s. s. s. s. s. 243 s.; s. s. 244 l., l., l. l., l. 245 s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s., s., 246 l. l. l. 247 248 249 250 251 l. l. 252 l. l.; l. l. minimum l. l. 253 254 255 l. 256 l. l. l. l. 257 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. maximum 258 "Parva metu primo: mox sese attolit in auras, Ingrediturque  solo." 259
 Mr. W. Peel  opposed the motion. He believed that ministers were quite as anxious to relieve the distress of the country as those who dealt in nothing but assertion and complaint. He was glad that reductions were about to be made from the highest offices to the lowest, as he was convinced that such economical arrangements would tend to remove the evils complained of.
 Dr. Lushington  rose to bring forward his motion for consolidating and amending the several acts relating to the Slave Trade. For a period of 30 years, several statutes had been enacted to promote the abolition of The Slave Trade, which were much at variance with each other. Some of the gentlemen proposing such enactments not having taken the trouble to examine the statutes which had previously passed, great difficulty was often felt in coming to a right conclusion upon the law, or in making a satisfactory distinction between one statute and another. This difficulty was peculiarly felt by our Legal tribunals in the
 279
 Mr. Lushington  said, it was certainly the intention of the chancellor of the Exchequer, to submit a plan to the House, with regard to the regulation of this office.
 Mr. Hume  said, that before he agreed to this resolution, he begged leave to ask the secretary to the Treasury, whether it was the intention of government to adopt any new regulations, or to propose any plan with regard to the office of distributors of stamps? The gentlemen who composed the committee appointed to inquire into this subject last session, were extremely anxious to know what measures were about to be adopted by ministers. He was quite sure, that if the government intended to submit a plan to the House, those who urged the necessity of some new regulation in the last session would not press them. At the same time, it was necessary to know whether any measures would be taken by ministers on this subject.
 Mr. Wodehouse  also expressed his astonishment that any member should still be inclined to support the doctrines of Mr. Webb Hall.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, he had been intrusted with a Petition from an individual who complained of many hardships. It stated, that an Orange faction having obtained various securities of his, proceeded against him and obtained a verdict from an Orange jury, on a charge of an assault in attempting to escape from the custody of an officer; that he had been unable to obtain justice in consequence of the detention of various papers; and that several interviews he had had with the marquis of Londonderry had been ineffectual for that purpose. He prayed therefore for copies of his correspondence, and of the information under which he had been convicted.
 Mr. Bennet  much doubted the fitness of the rule which prevented unopened communication between members of parliament, and convicts who might have just ground for complaining of treatment, food, or other grievance. He apprehended that it was a breach of privilege to open a letter addressed to a member of parliament; and he read an extract of a letter from lord Sidmouth to support his opinion. He had accompanied his hon. friend to the hulks, in consequence of the letter in question, and found that the prisoner had no ground of complaint.
 Sir R. Wilson— What I said was, "It is disgraceful to continue firing in this manner."
 Sir R. Fergusson  said, he did not know whether he was to be the next victim or not but he would tell the noble lord opposite and his adherents, that in spite of all their power and all their threats, while he sat in that House he would always give an independent vote. After the plain statement made by his gallant friend, it appeared to him impossible for any candid man to deny that his gallant friend had been grossly injured. It was evident that the exercise of the prerogative had been abused. Ministers were responsible for the advice which they gave in the exercise of every prerogative possessed by the Crown. It was so with regard to the highest of those prerogatives, the extension of mercy; and surely it ought to be so with regard to that inferior and more painful prerogative, the infliction of punishment. With respect to the treatment which his gallant friend had endured, it appeared to him to be a miserable, a base assassination of private character for the purposes of political intrigue [hear, hear, hear!] His gallant friend, (gallant he
 321
 Mr. Bennet  said, that although his gal-taut friend was no longer an officer in the British service, he stood high in rank abroad, and was possessed of a character as a soldier of which no minister could deprive him. He should always call him the gallant officer as he had been accustomed to do. He could bear testimony to the accuracy of the statement of his gallant friend, for he had accompanied the funeral procession of her late majesty to do honor to the character of the illustrious deceased, and to mark his hatred of her inveterate persecutors. Up to the arrival of the procession at Cumberland gate he accompanied his gallant friend the whole of the way; and he could declare that with respect to the whole of what passed during that time, the assertions of his gallant friend were perfectly correct. For the sake of the argument, he would admit the king's prerogative; but it should not be forgotten, that the prerogative must be exercised by responsible advisers, and all that was desired was, to know who those advisers were on the present occasion. The
 322 323
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he could assure the House, that in rising after the hon. gentleman who had just sat
 324 325
 The Marquis of Londonderry. —It is the 22nd Article of War. It was made law by the Mutiny act. Besides if the hon. gentleman objected to this article of war, why had he not long ago, and before he himself felt the operation of it, brought it under the consideration of parliament? He held in his hand a paper containing the names of no less than 212 officers, who, in the last ten years, had been removed without a trial; and that paper proved, that so far from the doctrine being true, that a court-martial was the only ground for proceeding to the dismissal of an officer, there were instances after instances in which, after acquittal by a court mar-
 326 327 328 329 330
 The Marquis of Londonderry  was sorry to have mistaken any part of the transaction. He had understood that this observation was made to the people, or made loudly in their presence.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that the noble marquis would not, by granting the papers moved for, give the House an opportunity of going into an inquiry into this extraor-
 336 337 338 339 340 341
 Dr. Lushington  merely rose to confirm, so far as his knowledge went, the statement of his gallant friend. What he could say was, that, after his own coach had passed through Cumberland-gate, he for the first time heard the firing. It naturally attracted his attention, though he had no idea that it was firing with ball. Where he was at that moment, there were certainly no stones thrown: he would not say that none were thrown, but he certainly did not see any. Sir Robert Wilson rode at that time up to his coach, and said that he believed the military were firing; and that he should go up and prevent the consequences. He (Dr. L.) remarked, that such an interference would expose him to danger, and that he had better not. He, however, persevered in saying that he would go. He soon after returned and stated, that he had found the military in disorder, believed that he had prevented further firing, and hoped that no more bloodshed would take place.
 Colonel Cavendish  felt it necessary to
 344
 Lord Uxbridge  said, that the hon. gentleman had spoken on the authority of an inquest, the evidence adduced at which aught not to be believed. As a proof of it, he would only say that there were a number of men ready to go up in a body before the coroner, and swear that he (lord Uxbridge) was the man who shot one of the persons who fell, when it was notorious that he was more than 200 miles from the spot at the time.
 Mr. Curteis  took occasion to observe, that the petitioners had twice laid their case before parliament, and had twice been told, to wait with patience the effects of time: they had waited, and the consequences had been an aggravation of their sufferings and an exacerbation of their feelings. They now once more approached the House in firm, but respectful language, claiming its interference in their behalf. The hon. member then detailed the principal arguments contained in the petition, expressing his decided approbation of them: he also adverted to the question of averages, to the warehousing system, and to the effect of tithes and poor-rates upon land, and argued, that protecting duties might afford the farmer the relief he sought, inasmuch as the effect of them would be to prohibit the competition of foreign grain, and to raise the price of our own. He had already this session given two votes in favour of economy and retrenchment; and as his constituents were unanimous upon the subject, he should not fail to follow them up by other votes against the extravagant system pursued by ministers.
 Mr. Ellice  contended, that the notion of protecting and prohibiting duties, though still maintained by Mr. Webb Hall and other visionaries in their reveries, had long been given up and exploded both in parliament and in the country. Relief was, in fact, only to be obtained by effecting the greatest possible reduction of taxation. He was surprised to hear that the hon. member was still a disciple of Mr. Webb Hall, from whose project of high prices the utmost injury would result, if it were attempted to be carried into execution. The hon. member hoped to see the corn grower and corn-consumer put upon the same relative footing in this country as on the continent.
 Mr. Ellice  assured the House that he had travelled from Paris in company with the gallant general, and that he had not quitted his company until four or five o'clock on the evening previous to the day of the Queen's funeral; so that it was impossible that what was stated to have taken place at the public house at Hammersmith could be true. He could further state, that the gallant general had, before returning to Paris, consulted him, as to the best mode of proceeding with respect to the rumours which appeared in the public papers, and observed that he should wish to contradict them, were it not that he feared his doing so would be the cause of his being called as a witness before the coroner's jury, to which he had a decided objection, as he did not wish to prejudice the question either way.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he could give the most ample confirmation to that part of the gallant officer's statement which fell under his observation. There were no preparations for any obstruction when he passed the church at Kensington in the morning, where he believed the first obstruction to the procession took place.
 Mr. Brougham  wished to enter his protest against the doctrine, that it was not a gross breach of privilege to open a letter sent under cover to a member of parliament. It was the constant assertion, that the privileges of members were given them for the public benefit; but where were those privileges if they were to be thus invaded with impunity? He did not go so far as to maintain that it was a breach of privilege to open, under such circumstances, a letter franked by a member; but to open a letter addressed to a member was as violent an outrage of his privileges as to put his person under arrest.
 Mr. Twiss  said, that the hon. members opposite seemed to be all agreed, that the case was one which ought either to have been sent to a court martial, or submitted to that House. It was on this proposition that he desired to say a few words, with a view to show in what way such a suggestion, coming from his side of the House, would have been met by the same hon. members with whom it originated. If his majesty's ministers, instead of meeting the case manfully as they had done, by the exercise of that power which they possessed, had brought forward a proposal that such a matter should be referred to a court martial, it would have been said, and with truth, that they were afraid to advise the exercise of the prerogative. It would have been said, that they wished to take an indirect means of accomplishing their object without suffering the odium of it; and that for this purpose they selected a body so constituted as to be under complete subjection to their will—thus substituting for a responsible an irresponsible power. His majesty's ministers, however, not having done this, the thing was now seen in a different light; and the act was arraigned as unconstitutional, and as depriving the individual of the security of martial law. He did not mean to say that military officers might not be competent to meet a question of this nature; but, at the same time, it certainly was one upon which it was almost impossible for military officers, in the employment of the Crown, to be free from bias. It was plain that there must be many objections to entrusting the important power of dismissing officers from the service to a tribunal, which, though not free from ministerial influence, was free from its responsibility. A minister, however, might be responsible, though not accountable. In cases of money, the minister was both responsible for its use, as well as accountable for its application; but he was not accountable for the administration of a prerogative.
 Mr. Lambton  said, that the noble marquis had unintentionally, no doubt, misrepresented what had fallen from him. He had not said that an officer had as much right to his commission as if it were his freehold. What he had said was, that it would be as unjust to deprive an officer without trial of his commission, as it would be to deprive a man of his freehold without a cause.
 Mr. Lambton  said, his statement was, that murder had been committed on that day; and he had used the expression on the authority of the verdict of a coroner's inquest. It was a fact that two men were killed on that day, and unless gentlemen could say that the multitude had fired upon each other, he was at a loss to know how they could be shot but through the instrumentality of the military. With this explanation, he begged to stand on his original expression.
 Mr. Lambton  confessed, that he had entered the House with feelings of indignation at the treatment his hon. and gallant friend had received. He would not drop the title of "gallant," although gentlemen on the other side had dropped it. He still remembered that his gallant friend had been an officer twenty years, and that he had fought and bled in the service of his country. [Cheers.] The feelings with which he had entered the House were not molified by the tone which the noble lord had taken on the other side; by the sneering style which that noble lord had adopted, not only to the gallant gentleman below him, but also to another hon. and gallant member on his right hand (sir R Fergusson), whose military services perhaps, if well appreciated, might bear comparison with the civil exertions of the noble lord himself; and of whose title even to sit in the House the noble lord was so ignorant as to say, that he sat, "he rather believed, for some Scotch boroughs." The tone which had been used towards both these honourable members, reflected very little credit upon the feeling of the noble lord, or upon the manner in which ministers were disposed to treat appeals for justice. The House had been told of the antiquity and prerogative in question. He denied the fact. Was it necessary for him to remind the noble lord, that in ancient times no such
 315 316 317 "Dissentient, 1st. Because we conceive it is the inherent right of this House to address the Crown, to be informed, who are the advisers of any measures that may he prejudicial to his majesty's government, or dangerous to the liberties of the nation—2nd. Because the removal of two officers of such rank and dignity, and of such known fidelity to his majesty's person and government, without any cause assigned, or any known or alleged neglect of their duty, gave the greatest alarm to many of his majesty's most faithful subjects; we therefore thought it for his majesty's service, to give him this occasion to publish to the world, the just grounds of his displeasure, or to detect the calumny of their accusers: and consequently to withdraw his confidence from such pernicious counsellors.—3rd Because, that as the practice of displacing officers has grown more frequent in proportion to the increase of their numbers in both Houses of Parliament, the world may entertain (however unjustly) an opinion, that the free use of their votes has been the real cause of their disgrace; and the more so, since most of the persons, who have been removed have happened to be members of one or other House of Parliament.—4th. Because applications of this nature to the Crown may hereafter protect many of his majesty's faithful subjects from the
 318 "Dissentient, Because we were not conscious, that any neglect or breach of our duty can be laid to our charge, much less any want of zeal and attachment for his majesty's person and government; we therefore must testify our earnest desire, that this motion had past in the affirmative, that we might have had an opportunity given us of knowing our supposed crimes and accusers; and we hope, of justifying ourselves to his majesty and the world, (Signed) "BOLTON, COBHAM." 319 l. l., 320
 Mr. Hume  added, that as late as last Saturday week the conduct of that convict had been highly applauded by the persons in authority on board the hulks.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. member for Sussex complained with a very ill grace that the petitioners had been sent back unredressed in the last and in the preceding session. Why had they obtained no relief, but because the hon. gentleman and others constantly voted with ministers in favour of their extravagant expenditure of the public money? True it was, that within the last fortnight he had given two votes for economy; but
 281
 Mr. Hume  complained, that a letter, addressed to him from a convict on board the hulks, had been opened and sent to him, marked "Opened by the Inspector." He thought this an invasion of one of the privileges belonging to members of parliament.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was anxious to offer himself to the attention of the House on this question, as he had accompanied his gallant friend on the day to which the motion referred. He had witnessed the whole of his conduct on that occasion, not having been absent from him for ten minutes during the day; and he could
 332 333 334 335
 Mr. N. Calvert  was of opinion, that the prerogative in question was advantageous to the people, as well as to the Crown, when properly exercised; but allowed that it might be abused in such a manner as to become highly obnoxious. In the present case, he confessed that when he came down to the House it was with a strong impression on his mind unfavourable to the hon. member. Having, however, heard the clear statement made by the hon. member himself, and having heard the speech of the noble lord in reply, he could not do otherwise than vote for the motion, as the hon. member's case seemed to him to prove the truth of the old adage, "When you want to beat a dog it is not difficult to find a stick."
 Mr. James  complained, that the keeper of Lancaster-gaol had opened a letter he had sent to a person confined for only a misdemeanor. He thought such conduct highly improper.
 Mr. James  gave notice, that to-morrow week he would bring forward a motion on the subject of breaking open letters addressed to members of parliament.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that the fraud of which he spoke had been detected since that day.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the regulation that no letter should be sent by convicts on board the hulks, unexamined by the inspector, had existed from the earliest institution of the punishment of transportation, and it had been uniformly observed: and he saw no reason why a letter to a member of parliament should be excepted from the general rule, as that hon. gentleman might otherwise be made the innocent instrument of fraud. In April last, the escape of some convicts was prevented by the opening of a letter; the very criminal who had addressed the hon. member had been very recently detected in a fraud, which might have been effected but for the opening of a letter. If he recollec-
 282
 Mr. Peel  said, that while he was chief secretary for Ireland, he did not recollect having heard of any circumstances of the kind.
 Mr. Peel  immediately added, that the name of an individual so notorious brought the facts to his recollection. He was perfectly certain that the petition contained many very gross falsehoods.
 Sir I. Coffin  adverted to the dismissal of lord G. Sackville, and declared it to be his opinion, that no unprejudiced man, either in that House or out of it, would say, that the royal prerogative had been exercised harshly, or unjustly in the case of the hon. gentleman.
 Sir R. Wilson. —That is not the law, what section of the Mutiny act is it?
 Sir Robert Wilson,  rose and said: * * 283 284 285 à deo rex, à rege lex, 286 287 288 289 290 291 292 293 294 295 * * 296 297 * 298 incidents of the day, and was, I am confident, so understood by the magistrate. 299 " Horse Guards, 27th August, "Major-general sir Robert Wilson called upon sir Herbert Taylor, and stated, that he understood that there were many calumnious misrepresentations afloat, in regard to the part which he took in the proceedings of the 14th August; but that, as no official communication had been made to him on the subject, and as he learns from sir Herbert Taylor that he had not been instructed by the commander-in-chief to make any to him, he did not feel that he was called upon, or that he could with propriety notice them in any representation to his royal highness, but that he feels at all times prepared to refute them. Under these circumstances, sir Herbert Taylor declined receiving any private communication from sir Robert Wilson, Read to sir Robert Wilson and approved by him. " (Signed) H. TAYLOR." 300 " Horse-Guards, September "Sir,—I have it in command from his majesty, to inform you, that he no longer requires your services. I am, sir, FREDERICK, Commander-in-chief. "Sir Robert Wilson." 301 302 303 " Paris, Sep. "SIR;—Having just seen in the Times newspaper of the 20th inst. the statement of a reported conversation that passed between you and myself, on Tuesday the 14th of August, I address myself, with confidence, to you, for the contradiction of that statement; as you will be sensible of its perversion of the fact, and the injurious tendency of its fabrication. You will doubtless have felt, that, so far from any hostile language having been uttered by either party to each other, I presented myself to you with such peaceable spirit, that you-informed me you had given no orders to fire—that you regretted the firing had taken place —that you, moreover, kindly received the suggestion made to keep the magistrate (whom I introduced to you at the same time) close by yourself; and that, eventually, according to another suggestion, when you stated, you conceived your further continuance with your detachment was no longer required by your orders; that instead of passing your detachment to the rear (to use my own expressions at the time), by the hearse, through an irritated populace, and a long line of flint stones, you advanced your detachment, and took the first street in the New Road, leading into the town. "I have already requested a court of inquiry, or court-martial, before which all the transactions of the day, in which I was concerned, may be investigated:—but I could not treat a relation, which engaged so much attention, from the introduction of your name, with that silent forbearance which I have observed towards the other various calumnies to which active currency has been given in some public journals; and as it would appear from them in magisterial inquiries. I have the honour to be, &c. "R. T. WILSON. "As your receipt of this letter, and your answer, is of so much consequence, I have passed it through the hands of a
 304 " Hyde Park Barracks, 30th Sept. "SIR;—In reply to your communication, recorded yesterday evening, I have to inform you that I cannot consent to to make myself the organ of contradiction to the various reports in circulation, respecting the affair in which we have been represented as mutually concerned. Were I to yield this point in one instance, I should feel myself bound to notice every succeeding rumour; or my silence would be a sanction to the inferences which might be drawn from it.—I have no hesitation in saying, that the statement to which you have particularly alluded, did not originate with me; and I have not a suspicion who can be the author of it. Beyond this, I must decline a compliance with your request: but, as in the hurried and tumultuous scene, to which you refer, some misconception may be supposed to arise; I think it right to admit, on the one hand, and declare my ignorance, on the other, of the different points you enumerate. It is distinctly in my memory, that you asked me upon that occasion, if I had given orders to fire, and my answer was that I had not: also, that I retired by a blank movement, I believe down King-street; which, though pointed out by you, would naturally have occurred to myself, as the most eligible; but, as to any expression of regret that the firing had taken place—any exchange of courtesy between us—on being introduced by you to the magistrate, until the very moment I received his orders to withdraw, when you announced me to him, by saying, Here is the officer," I have not the least recollection.—From the commencement of this business, I have most scrupulously avoided making a matter, so closely connected
 305 "I have the honour to be, &c. "RICHARD OAKES." "Sir;—Understanding that you were the magistrate to whom I had the satisfaction to address myself on the 14th of August, and who permitted me to present him to the commanding-officer of the detachment of life-guards, towards the conclusion of the tumult at Cumberland-street, I apply to you, under the circumstances in which I am placed by a proceeding of his majesty's government, for an answer to the following questions, to which I hope you will not find it inconsistent with your duty to reply. In the intercourse which we had on the 14th of August, did I, or did I not, express to you an earnest desire for the restoration of tranquillity, and the authority of the law? Did you, or did you not, observe my conduct to be in unison with that declaration? I think it right to add, that my wish is, to have the power of referring to, or producing your answer in parliament, or wheresoever else I may judge such reference or production to be essential for the interests of justice.' I have the honour to be, &c. R. T. WILSON. " Howick, Nov. 16th, I quit this place on Tuesday, and shall be at Lambton Hall, Durham, till the 1st of December." "Sir;—Your letter of the 16th instant
 306 " Lambton Hall, Nov. 23rd, "Sir;—I have received your letter. I lament you should have refrained from giving an answer to the questions I proposed, not merely in behalf of my own individual interests, but of those of truth and justice. I think it, however, right to acquaint you, that I shall be obliged to advert to the conversation which passed between us on the 14th of August: nor will it be possible for me to avoid noticing the application which I have subsequently made, with your reply thereto. I have the honour to be, &c. R. T. WILSON." 307 308 309
 Sir Robert Wilson  said, he should not
 342 343
 Sir R. Wilson  said, the noble lord was mistaken in having supposed that he had addressed the people, and told them the blues were popular. That was not the case. The fact was, he had met a gentleman, whom he was told was sir R. Baker, and to him he said, that the blues were popular, and it was so far fortunate, as it would be more likely to prevent mischief. At this observation, there was not more than one person present.
 Sir John Newport  said, that his vote upon the question before tile House would have no reference to the motives which actuated his majesty's ministers to advise the Crown as they had upon this occasion. It appeared to him, that the House had but one choice in a case of this nature, which was between the prerogative in question being left in the hands of the Crown without any control or being liable to appeal to the House of Commons, in order to review the decisions of the Crown in the exercise of it. The latter he thought to be full of extreme dangers; especially as regarded its consequences upon military discipline. In the first place, such a course would tend to bring the officers of the army and that House into dangerous contact. They all knew the consequences of the fatal error, in a former period of our history, of bringing the officers of the army and committees of the House of Commons, into too close a communication. It was, therefore, because he thought a most unadvised act had been committed, which he felt the House was not empowered to go into, that he could not support this motion. For such was the nature of the act, that if the papers were laid on the table, the House must inquire into the subject matter of them. The principle went to render the army independent of the Crown, and dependent upon that House, or rather upon any party it might be able to command in it—a principle which, it was obvious involved many dangers.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the hon. member had himself stated, that his observations were not grounded on the comparatively narrow basis of personal injury, but on broader and more enlarged principles; and that the interests of a large class and the liberty and safety of all Englishmen were involved. Now, he was prepared to resist the motion, by appealing to the very same principles, and to call on the House to resist it as calculated to affect one of the main pillars which upheld the balance of the constitution, and on which the lives and safety of every Englishman depended. If there were any prerogative of the Crown undisputable and undisputed, it had been always held, and was now held to be that of the right of dismissing any officer without trial, without assigning, reasons, and without reference to whether his commission had been purchased or not purchased. It rested on the most ancient and uninterrupted usage. Instances innumerable were to be found, not only in late times, but in those times which gentlemen on the other side, were accustomed to call the best of times. But he appealed to facts which were admitted in both Houses of Parliament in 1734, when
 310 311 312 313
 Lord Palmerston  assured the gallant general that he had not the slightest intention to reflect upon his parliamentary conduct. He had merely said, that no officer had ever been dismissed the service for his conduct in parliament, and had instanced the gallant general, who had always (conscientiously and constitutionally, no doubt) voted against his majesty's ministers. He was therefore justified in contending that the reason given on the other side for the dismissal of the hon. mover, was not the true one.
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that it was immaterial whether the precise words used by the hon. gentleman were, that the men "had disgraced themselves," or that "it was disgraceful to continue firing." The meaning was the same in both cases. What judge was the hon. gentleman whether the men had disgraced themselves or not? The hon. gentleman had admitted that he did not know at the time whether they were acting under orders [no, no!]. Why, the hon. gentleman said, that he afterwards asked the officers whether they had given orders to fire? If at the time
 314
 The Marquis of Londonderry. —They do form a part of his statement.
 Mr. Bennet  begged the last speaker to consider, that if reform would not immediately operate to put a shilling in the pocket of the agriculturist, it would save him from having a shilling taken out of it.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he rose to present a petition, which had been unanimously agreed to at one of the most numerous and respectable meetings of the electors of Westminster he had ever witnessed. He had great satisfaction in presenting it, because he concurred in all its sentiments, with a very trifling exception; and because it stated, in a very clear and able manner, the real cause of the grievances under which the country laboured. It did not merely complain of the pressure of taxation, but it complained of those gross violations of law, and of those monstrous infringements of the constitution, which the country had of late years witnessed. The part of the petition in which he did not entirely concur, was a clause at the end of it, which ascribed the distresses of the agricultural interest to the operation of what was commonly called Mr. Peel's bill. He did not mean to enter at present into the discussion of this subject, but he wished to state shortly, the reason why he could not concur in that opinion. He had examined all the papers laid before the House, from the year 1800 up to the year 1821, and he there saw that the price of agricultural produce by no means bore such a relative proportion to the price of bullion, as to make it possible for him to conclude that one was the cause, and the other the effect. On the contrary, he observed this very remarkable fact, that the period at which the depreciation of the currency was so slight, as scarcely to affect the large concerns of a great country—not for instance more than 7 or 8 per cent—was the time at which the value of agricultural produce was highest; and again, that at the time of the greatest depreciation of the currency, the value of agricultural produce was extremely low. In point of fact, it did not appear that there was any immediate or necessary connexion between the two circumstances of the depreciation of the currency, and the price of agricultural produce. It appeared to him, that to attribute any effects to Mr. Peel's bill, except such as might hereafter be extremely beneficial to the country, was the greatest of all possible mistakes. It appeared, from the documents on the table, that for nearly three years previous to Mr. Peel's
 348
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he had been desired by his constituents, to support the prayer of this petition. In so doing he begged to state, that in unison with his hon. colleague, he concurred entirely in all the sentiments of the petitioners. He believed there had never been laid on the table of that House, a petition more replete with wholesome truths than that which had just been presented. The petitioners first stated, that the prayers of the people had been constantly disregarded. This was a point which he apprehended would not be denied, even by those who had uniformly opposed themselves to what they were pleased to call popular clamour. The petitioners next adverted to the defective state of the representation, and the corrupt demoralising system of rotten boroughs; a system which was contemplated with so much satisfaction by those who were interested in maintaining it. The petitioners were blind enough not to coincide in those views, nor could they perceive that that system could contribute to the happiness of the nation. To the corruption of parliament they attributed the loss of America, and all the calamities which had afflicted us both abroad and at home. To the same cause they ascribed the restrictions on our liberties, and that pressure of unparalleled taxation, which had at length reduced us to the lowest stage of misery and degradation. Among the grievances which pressed upon the country the petitioners were unwise enough to place that which had been held up the other night as the bulwark of English liberty—he meant a standing army. The petitioners had the misfortune to differ in this respect from the noble lord opposite, but they differed in common with the best, and bravest, and wisest men of all ages and countries—they had all history for them, but they had the misfortune to have the capacity of the noble lord against them. The next point to which the petitioners adverted was the unparalleled amount of taxation. They mentioned a fact which was hardly credible, but unfortunately too true, that the amount of the taxes was no less than the enormous sum of 1,000,000 l. 349 l.
 Mr. Price  presented a petition from Ross, in the country of Hereford, complaining of agricultural distress. The hon. member took that opportunity of observing, that he was firmly convinced that the time was arrived when the general distress of the landed interest was to be met, not by minor arrangements, but by a most severe and rigid inquiry into every department of the state, with the view to an efficient diminution of the public bur-
 350
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said:
 Colonel Davies  began by remarking on the extraordinary manner in which the right hon. gentleman had come down to comment on a speech delivered several days ago, while be made no adequate reply to what had been said in the debate
 445
 Lord Nugent  said, he had a petition to present, to which he begged leave particularly to call the attention of the House. It was signed by 430 owners and occupiers of land, in the vale of Aylesbury, at a meeting convened by farmers alone, and by whom all the resolutions were drawn up, to only two of which any opposition was manifested; and what were these two resolutions? Why those which called for a reduction of taxes and for the establishment of a more equal representation of the people in that House. This opposition was, however, made only by three persons. Indeed, reduction of taxes and parliamentary reform formed at present the general cry of the country. The public had beard much about the boasted "indemnity for the past and security for the future;" but, in what instance had, indemnity been obtained? What, indeed, but a series of losses and calamities; and what was to be contemplated for the future but gloom and despair? Such was the reduced condition of the country under the operation of a system, the principal authors and advocates of which at present wielded the powers of the government! Of this state of things his constituents very naturally complained. They apprehended, justly, that such a crisis could not possibly continue. Perhaps in the course of that night
 346
 Mr. Brougham  said, he had thought so, and would mention a short conversation which had occurred between himself and an hon. friend, in illustration of the reasons why he had thought so. His hon. friend, in listening to the speech of the noble lord, had asked him (Mr. B.) what had become of the retrenchments which had been promised in the opening of the speech. "Surely," said he, "the noble lord must be coming to the retrenchments which he spoke of." He (Mr. B.) replied, that his friend was very much mistaken, for the noble lord had passed by them. "Impossible," said his hon. friend, and turned round with a smile of indignation. The matter had, however, turned out just as he had stated, much to the surprise of his hon. friend, but not at all to his own; for he had grown gray in experience of the noble lord's line of policy, and was now perfectly acquainted with all the tact and tactics of his adversary. All that was to be got by abolishing useless civil places all that was to be got by abolishing those heavy burthens upon the people which were now become intolerable, all that was to be got by extending to them every relief to which they were so justly entitled, all attempts to afford them that decent comfort of which their situation was so susceptible, and to show them that the House would not continue to mock their misery, all those manifestations of feeling towards thorn were to be left untried. The system of jobbing for parliamentary purposes and court influence out of the public purse, when the people were starving for want, was yet untouched. Besides these, were the ministers to overlook all that was to be gained, all that was to be secured, for still higher purposes, for more sacred interests, for renovating the British constitution, and saving it from being at length overwhelmed by the corrupt influence of ministers improperly wielding the patronage of the Crown? Why were not these attempts made, in a crisis like the present, to secure public confidence? He had heard, indeed, that one measure of reduction was contemplated by his majesty's government—a 10 per cent deduction from official salaries. This, he supposed, was to be an average offering to secure the main interest a sort of premium of insurance, which all placemen were to render or do by way of policy
 412 l. l. 413 414 415 416 417
 Mr. Brougham  in offering himself to the House, begged to assure them, that he had listened with the utmost possible attention to the very able statement of the noble lord who had preceded him. He had listened to that noble personage with an anxiety due to the great and important question before them, and he was happy to congratulate the House on the change and amendment which had taken place in the tone and temper of the noble marquis's opening address to them on that evening. It was not long since the noble lord had taunted the Opposition side of the House, for having hastily proposed any measure of retrenchment or economy. But the noble lord had lived four days since that period, and no doubt the noble lord, had grown wiser and better from the experience afforded in the interim. From the noble lord's statements it appeared that he was now prepared to treat the question of the public distress with more gravity. They had not on that evening heard from the noble lord his usual taunts upon one set of persons, and his sneers and jokes upon another. It was gratifying to find that the noble lord had at length determined to bring some portion of his mind to bear upon the great and important question before them. It would appear, however, that the plan which the noble lord had propounded was like one of those beauties which were best seen in the dimmest light, and which he was anxious therefore not to expose to the broad glare of day. It was not easy to distinguish the features of the plan laid down by the noble lord; but as far as they could be recognized, as far as he could estimate the amount of what the noble lord intended to do for the relief of the country, he would beg leave to make a few observations upon it. The noble lord had taken a glance at futurity, and had stated, in general terms, that the destinies of all governments were at the disposal of that Power whose influence; extends over all mankind; that there was no comparison between what a man held in his hand, and what he might look to from change, from accident, or from
 401 402 403 404 405 406 407 l. l. l., 408 409 410 l. l.; l. l.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he was not in the House on any of the evenings when Mr. Peel's bill was in its progress through parliament, except on the third reading, and it was too late then to enter on discussions in which he had previously taken no part. He was absent from severe and dangerous illness.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had not intended to claim the indulgence of the House at that late hour, but he could not refrain from making a few observations on the speech of the right hon. gentleman; and, on the extraordinary proceeding, he believed somewhat novel, of coming down with an answer to a speech delivered a week before. He had endeavoured to lead the House from the subject which was before it, by treating the argument of his hon. and learned friend in a most uncandid manner. The speech of the right hon. gentleman was in itself full of contradictions. The right hon. gentleman had called the attention of the House to the distressed state of the manufacturing interests in 1816, from which he said it recovered when left to itself. But what was the conclusion to which he came with respect to the agricultural question? He said he would not leave the agricultural interest to itself, as he had done the manufacturing interests, to recover from the depression under which it at present laboured; but wished to resort to the wild scheme of borrowing four millions from the Bank, for the purpose of buying corn with the public money. He would not leave the agricultural, like the manufacturing interest, to find its natural level; but thought that its distress might be
 446 447 l. l. l., l. l.; l. l. l. l. 448 l. l. ne plus ultra 449 l. l. l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Huskisson  began by remarking, that the motion then before the House was simply for an account, to the production of which there could be no possible objection. But inasmuch as the comprehensive speech of his noble friend (lord Londonderry), who had introduced that motion, necessarily embraced topics similar to those which had been brought under the view of the House by an hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham) on a preceding day, and again that evening, the present discussion might be considered in the light of an adjourned debate upon the nature and causes of the present distress. He was the more at liberty to look at it in that point of view, without violating either the forms or the rules of the House, as the hon. and learned gentleman's motion, on Monday last, had been met, and most properly disposed of, not upon its merits, but by the previous question. That motion, however, had answered the hon. and learned gentleman's purpose. It enabled him to range over the whole manor of political economy, to fire his shots at random, and then to day, when the minister of the Crown was obliged to go over the same beat, the hon. and learned
 418 419 present past 420 panacea 421 422 423 424 425 minimum data 426 427 Iliad 428 l. 429 depreciation diminution 430 diminution depreciation. Par. 431 432 seignorage l. s. d. par 433 434 435 diminished 436 increase 437 438 s. d. s. d. s. d. 439 440 nominal real 441 442 443 444
 Mr. Speaker ; In rising to call your attention to the important paragraph in his majesty's most gracious Speech, which the clerk has just read, I am sure the House will believe me when I unfeignedly declare, that on no occasion of my public life have I ever experienced more anxious feelings than at the present moment; because, among the many measures of great public importance, which it has been my duty to propose to the consideration of parliament, I sincerely believe, that it has never fallen to my lot to open to them a question, embracing topics of greater difficulty and complexity, or one which has excited stronger anxiety both within and without these walls; more or less involved as the interests of every individual in the community are, in the decision of parliament on this subject. This being the nature of the question, the House must be aware that I feel very anxious as to the possibility of adequately discharging the duty which I have undertaken; labouring as I do, on the one hand, under the desire not unnecessarily to occupy the time of the House, but to compress into as small a compass as possible the information which I have to communicate; and, on the other hand, convinced as I am, that I should not be warranted, from consideration for their convenience or my own feelings, in abstaining from the statement of
 * 351 data, 352 353 354 355 across the table, 356 
 
 Bushels. 
 1791, 1792, and 1793, was 27,011,073 
 1794, 1795, — 1796, — 26,131,162 
 1797, 1798, — 1799, — 29,879,506 
 1800, 1801, — 1802, — 21,128,681 
 1803, 1804, — 1805, — 25,081,462 
 1806, 1807, — 1808, — 24,935,460 
 1809, 1810, — 1811, — 24,631,362 
 1812, 1813, — 1814, — 22,383,637 
 1815, 1816, — 1817, — 23,487,829 
 1818, 1819, — 1820, — 24,448,115 
 that the consumption in 
 1821 was 28,697,057 357 l. s. l. 
 
 lbs. 
 1790, 1791, and 1792, was 17,468,301 
 1793, 1794, — 1795, — 19,424,566 
 1796, 1797, — 1798, — 20,963,781 
 1799, 1800, — 1801, — 24,249,560 
 1802, 1803, — 1804, — 20,933,725 
 1805, 1806, — 1807, — 20,734,453 
 1808, 1809, — 1810, — 20,552,565 
 1811, 1812, — 1813, — 20,948,081 
 1814, 1815, — 1816, — 23,310,798 
 1817, 1818, — 1819, — 21,904,925 
 and that the mean of the consumption of the two years 
 1820, and 1821, was 22,461,592 l. l. l. l. 358 359 l.; l., l. l. l. l. 360 l., l., l., l. l. 361 362 363 364 365 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 366 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. 367 l. l. l. l. l. l.; l., 368
 Sir Isaac Coffin  said, that as so much stress had been laid on the necessity of a, reform in parliament, he would give his opinion on the subject. "I think," said the hon. and gallant member, "that the best qualification consists in the possession of talents and property. Now the sooner the House is weeded of those who, like myself, have neither one nor the other, the better," [a laugh].
 Mr. Gooch  presented a petition from the occupiers of land in Suffolk, of whom he was glad to say, that they did not mix up their case with politics. They had too much sense to assist in raising any cry for reform, which, if it were carried to-morrow would not put a shilling in the pockets of the agriculturists.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the necessary documents would be ready in the coarse of a few days, and would be placed in the hands of members.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that if the noble lord had communicated with him, either in the House or out of it, the facts which he could have stated, might have precluded the necessity of the present application. He begged to state, that he had been, for some time in direct communication with the different individuals concerned in the offices in question, and that he stood prepared to submit, in the course of the session, the same description of bill which the noble lord asked leave to introduce. Under such circumstances, he trusted the noble lord would withdraw his motion. The noble lord had thrown great blame upon his predecessors in office, for their neglect of the measure in question. For those who had preceded him he could not speak; but certainly he took no blame to himself for delay. He had found on his table, when he succeeded to his office, eight reports of commissioners proposing different reductions. That any man should consider all these reports in one session was impossible; but he had commenced, and he meant to go on  seriatim, l. 461
 The Lord Advocate  pledged himself to bring in his bill as soon as possible; but thought it would come more regularly, if the noble lord withdrew his present motion.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  moved, "That the Report pf the Committee on the Agricultural Distress, presented the 18th June, 1821, together with the several petitions which have been presented to the House in the last and present sessions of parliament, complaining of the depressed state of Agriculture of the United Kingdom, be referred to a Select Committee, to enquire into the allegations thereof, and to report their observations there up on to the House."
 Mr. Wodehouse  observed, that the principal object for which he rose was, to ask the noble marquis a question. He would first, however, make a few observations on the subject immediately before the House. Although some of the views of his majesty's government appeared to be rather enigmatical, he had no doubt, that on the whole, the measures which they proposed would be beneficial. He felt it his duty, however, to express the obligation which he felt to two distinguished individuals on the other side of the House. To the one, he owed a two-fold obligation; he meant the hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Mr. Brougham). Although he differed very much from the hon. and learned gentleman on some points of his arguments, he yet thought that that hon. and learned gentleman had done more service to the cause of agriculture than any man in the House. Such, indeed, were the transcendant talents with which he was so marvellously gifted, and such the extraordinary force of his reasoning, that it really required great firmness to resist him in his conclusions. The other obligation which he owed the hon. and learned gentleman, was, for having, m the course of his argument on the sinking fund (that rock on which our public credit rested), done justice to the memory of that great man who was the author of that measured and who could never be estimated too highly. The other individual to whom he wished to express his obligation was, a noble lord (John Russell) not
 466 467 468 469
 The Marquis of Londonderry  agreed, that it might become advisable to restrict the subject of inquiry to those practical results he had in contemplation; at the same time, if this were necessary, it might be done afterwards, when any member could come to the House to prevent the committee from wandering into too wide a field of inquiry. All the members would be fully apprised of the objects in view; and, as to the nature, extent, and operation of the distress, he apprehended that it would not be necessary to go further than the former committee had done. The state of the foreign markets, however, was a part of the great subject not yet sufficiently investigated; and he hoped, that to this the committee now appointed would proceed without delay, so that very early after the holidays some practical measure might be founded upon its report.
 Lord A. Hamilton  declared, that in the reports of the commissioners, scarcely an individual was named who had not been guilty of exaction. The truth was, that the abolition ought to have taken place ten years ago; but, as there were forty places to be at once disposed of, such a waver of patronage was not likely to be hastily made. The noble lord then proposed that the Lord Advocate should acquiesce in the present motion for leave; and that he should afterwards bring in the
 462
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, he rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to abolish several useless offices in Scotland. The House would be surprised to hear that those offices had been twice reported on by two separate commissions, agreeing that they ought to be abolished. He would state, in the first place, what the offices were; secondly, the grounds on which he would move that they should be abolished; and, thirdly, the means of effecting it. It would be necessary to travel far back, were he to trace minutely the origin of those offices. They were remnants of the old ecclesiastical jurisdictions in the counties of Scotland, and were conducted by 23 commissaries, who succeeded to the jurisdiction of the Scotch bishops. There were 23 commissary clerks, and 23 procurators fiscal; not paid, it was true, by government, but paid, by the subject, from whose pockets the money, in the shape of arbitrary fees, was extracted. Now, as to the grounds for their abolition, he would remind the House, that they were declared not only useless but inconvenient, by a commission appointed as long ago as the year 1808, and which reported in 1810; and from 1810, his majesty's government and the successive lords advocate were culpable in not having followed up the recommendation of that Report. The present lord advocate, indeed, had the least share of blame; because he had been the least time in office. The noble lord then proceeded to state the substance of the Report of 1810, by which the House was informed, that under all the circumstances, the inferior commissary courts were not only useless, but even injurious to the subject, and ought to be abolished, and their jurisdiction transferred to the sheriffs' court. This Report, which ought not to have been neglected, was not acted upon for five years; at the end of which time, the then lord advocate brought in a bill, which, among other objects, had in view the abolition of those courts at the expiration of two months from its passing. The bill was read a first time on the motion of the lord advocate, and, he believed, a second
 459 460
 Mr. Sykes  said, he was anxious to bring back the debate to the question at issue, which was, whether or no the Corn Committee should be revived. After having heard the speech of the hon. member for Suffolk supported by that of the hon. member for Cheshire, he confessed he saw no good in going into a committee a second time. The hon. gentlemen had admitted that they had been completely mystified by the right hon. gentleman who drew up the report; and, according to the language of the member for Suffolk, dust had been thrown in their eves, for the purpose of hindering them from seeing the real situation of the country. He therefore could see no advantage in going over the ground again; for if twenty gentlemen had employed the whole of last spring in pursuing an inquiry which had only produced a report contradictory and inconsistent in many parts, and delusive and unpractical on the whole, he could see no prospect of a different result in the present session. It would end, as the last had clone, in the country gentlemen being mystified, and the agricultural interest being disappointed. It was, however, a consolation to him, that gentlemen were now shaking off the dust which had been so profusely thrown in their eyes, and that the hon. members for Suffolk, Cheshire, and Norfolk, were beginning to take a correct view of the conduct of ministers. He could not say that he heard with the same pleasure the speech of his hon. friend, the member for Yorkshire: for he never was mare surprised than when he heard him express his almost unlimited satisfaction at the speech of the noble marquis, the other night; and be listened with all his ears to learn the cause of his hon. friend's complacency. This pleasure he found was derived from the noble lord's statement, that, in the next year, he should have a sinking fund of five millions. But, did not his hon. friend recollect, three years ago, the chancellor of the exchequer held out the same hopes—aye, and carried his expectations to the
 488 489 pro tanto 490 s. l. l. l. 491
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he might in some degree have misunderstood his hon. and learned friend, but he would offer a word or two on the subject of this distress. It was not very long ago since they were all in a state of the greatest alarm, on account of the distressed manufacturers. It was conceived that our manufacturers were declining and the most gloomy apprehensions were indulged on their behalf. But he then took the liberty of intimating his opinion, that those distresses were not permanent; and, happily, his predictions had been fulfilled. He was disposed to hope equally well of the agricultural interests; but not while such a system of corn laws as the present existed. He thought it was most desirable to fix some system by which the prices of corn might be rendered less variable, and by which a proper and adequate compensation might be secured to the grower, One of the measures of relief proposed was, an advance of four millions by the Bank at three per cent interest. This was an hazardous experiment, unless the Bank had issued four millions more than was necessary for the circulation of the country. The House would do him the favour to recollect, that, in the session of 1819, he expressed an opinion on the Bank question, for which he received a reproof at the time from an hon. director, that the Bank should not then buy gold, but rather sell it. His fears, he would confess, were now the other way.
 483 l. s. l. s. d. 484 485 486
 Mr. Ricardo  began by observing, that the hon. member had stated, that the operation of the sinking fund in the purchase
 480 l. l. l.; 481 482
 Mr. Ricardo  presented a petition from Mr. John Woodson who, he observed, had taken a great deal of pains in examining into the best mode of relieving the poor, and who was of opinion that the principle on which the Saving banks were at present conducted was not the most beneficial that could be devised. He conceived it would be much better, if those who vested their money in these banks were paid by way of annuity, but at a less rate of interest than was now given. Their money might be allowed to accumulate, and thus a comfortable provision would be insured to them, when they arrived at an advanced age. He (Mr. R.) thought the plan deserved the attention of the legislature.
 Mr. Davenport  said, that from the flourishing description which the noble marquis had given of the state of our finances, he hoped there would be some reduction of taxation, which now bore so heavily on the country. The noble marquis had stated, that the taxes on the farmer were not more than five per cent. on the incoming and outgoings of his farm. Now, in answer to this, he would state, that in Cheshire, the occupiers of dairy farms paid five per cent. on one article of consumption alone; namely, that of salt; the tax on which he considered the most oppressive that ingenuity could devise.
 Mr. Ellice  felt himself called upon to address some observations to the House after the speeches of the hon. member for Portarlington, and the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, in justification of the opinions he had uniformly maintained, of the changes in our currency forming one main, if not principal ingredient in all our difficulties and embarrassments. In doing this he had no objection in the outset at once to admit the general principles laid down by his hon. friend and the right hon. gentleman. It was perfectly true and could not be denied, that, at particular periods, the market price of gold was precisely as they had stated it; and that at the period of passing the right hon. gentleman's bill, that price was relatively to our paper money only about six per cent below the mint price, but the question at issue between them vas this, not whether gold could not be purchased with Bank notes at that moment at 4 l. s. 499 l. s. l. s. l. s. 500 l. s., 501 l. s. 502 503 504 505 506
 Mr. Brougham  observed, that the case he put on a former evening was that of the distress of the landed interest becoming intolerable.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that much blame had been imputed to his hon. friend, the member for Suffolk, for the opinions which he had expressed with regard to the exposition of the noble marquis. Now, he also must confess, that he had listened to the noble marquis with very great satisfaction; and thought that he had pointed out to the country means of relief much more immediate, effectual, and expedient, than any that could be derived from a reduction of taxation. When the hon. gentleman who spoke last said, that the landed interest had arrived at their present condition principally through their own fault, he was perfectly ready, for one—if any blame was to attach to them generally—to take his share of it. Far from regretting the share which he had taken in supporting the measures in question, he felt that, if the landed interest had not given that support to the government of this country, the hon. gentleman himself would have had a much less stake to preserve than what he now possessed. For his part, he always felt that in supporting that momentous war, he was supporting a war for the preservation of the liberties of the country. [Repeated cries of "hear," from the Opposition.] In spite
 478 l. l. l. l. l., l. 479 l. l. l. l. maximum s.
 Mr. Benett,  of Wiltshire, said, he concurred with the hon. member for Norfolk in his praise of the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham), but he did not concur with him in differing from the hon. and learned gentleman's conclusions. He certainly had never heard any subject so clearly stated, or so convincingly reasoned on; and the country was deeply obliged to the hon. and learned gentleman, not only for the eloquent manner in which he had stated the claims of the agricultural interest, but for the sagacity with which he had indicated the mode of relieving them. He concurred in thinking, that on the subject of the distresses of the farmers, and the means of affording relief, the noble marquis should be more explicit; for, except that l s. 473 474 475 s. s. 476 477 l.
 Mr. Curwen  was anxious to know, whether the noble lord meant to open the whole extensive question which had last session occupied the House. If so, he was persuaded little would be done with it during the present session. Did the noble lord wish for further information as to the distressed state of the country? Was it for that the noble lord wished to open the question? If so, the committee would spend the whole of the session as they had spent the last, and would come back with a similar report. Instead of referring the subject to a committee, it was the duty of government to be prepared with a measure. He wished the noble lord would take the subject into his own hands. No man could do more justice than the noble lord had done to the subject in the committee last year. The noble lord must be aware, that if it were again sent to the committee, a great diversity of opinions would necessarily arise, and, after all, the committee would make just such a report as the noble lord and his friends would recommend. Thus the session would be allowed to pass and no measure would be adopted to prevent the possible influx of foreign corn. He would ask whether the country ought to be left in this uncertain state—whether something should not be done to ascertain the price at which importation should take place; unless the noble lord wished this country to be placed in the situation in which he had described Silesia to be, where the price of corn would not pay for its removal from the ground. The noble lord perhaps considered that he was taking a great step towards relief, in removing a
 470 471 472
 Mr. Curwen  was of opinion, that the plan proposed by the petitioner, was likely to be attended with most beneficial effects. It would be particularly serviceable to unmarried servants, who might be able to lay by small sums of money. As the Saving banks were now conducted, they only operated beneficially for those persons who were able to spare comparatively large sums, but were of very little use to the mere labourer.
 Mr. Lockhart,  in presenting a petition from certain owners and occupiers of land in the two parishes of Repton and Gresley, took occasion to observe, that unless some plan were devised for the relief of the agricultural interest, more effectual than that which was supported by the noble marquis, the clergy would shortly be without endowments, the landed proprietors without rentals, the poor without relief, and the sources of every charitable institution would be annihilated. To show the distress which affected the labouring classes at present, it would only be necessary to state one fact. A gaol had been built at Bury, in Suffolk, for the reception of 80 prisoners; but, at present, it was filled by 200 individuals, 60 of whom were labourers. They had been committed for poaching; and it was a fact, that the labourers went out poaching in the open day, for the purpose of being apprehended; as they preferred the support which was afforded to them in gaol to the want and
 455
 Mr. Hume  said, that with respect to the vote for the Navy, which the hon. baronet stated to be a mere vote of course, he could not agree to proceed with it until the estimates were before the House. This was the first vote of supply in the present sessions, and the House must see bow utterly impossible it was to decide on the nature and propriety of the charges contained in that vote, unless a full estimate were laid before them. In the account which had been printed, he found
 456 l. s. d. l. l. l. l. 457 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. s. s. l. l.
 Mr. W. Dundas  was of opinion, that the cases of fraud, instead of being general, were confined to a very few instances.
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that some honourable members had called him the author of the report which had been laid before the House last session, relative to the distressed state of agriculture. Now, he had always understood, that a report was considered as the production of the whole of the committee to which the subject discussed in the report was referred; but as a different opinion seemed to prevail with respect to the report he had mentioned, he would explain the facts connected with its production. When the committee came to deliberate upon its proceedings, several members proposed different resolutions. After hearing those resolutions, he had taken the liberty to propose a series of his own. The committee approved of that series of resolutions and had done him the honour to request that be would draw up a report founded on them. He appealed to the gentlemen who had been members of that committee, whether he did not, as long as he could, protest against the imposition of a task, which did not properly belong to him, as he was not the chairman of the committee. The committee, however, pressed him so strongly, that he yielded, and drew up the draught of a report, which was discussed paragraph by paragraph, and many alterations were made, in the propriety of which he did not concur. Those alterations affected not only the wording, but the principle of the report. Under these circumstances,
 507 s. 508 l.
 Mr. Manning  defended the conduct of the Bank in carrying into effect the measure of restoring the currency. The directors had a difficult duty to perform in fulfilling the intentions of parliament, and they had performed that duty to the best of their ability. He denied the assertion, that the Bank, in resuming cash payments had narrowed the circulation so much as to produce the prevailing distress, and showed that, including jointly the paper and gold which had been issued since the passing of Mr. Peel's bill, our currency was greater by one million than before. The depressed state of agriculture was therefore to be ascribed to different causes. Among these was the superabundance of produce occasioned by successive plentiful harvests and extended
 487
 Mr. Peel  observed, that the hon gentleman who had just sat down had opened his speech by stating, that he would call back the attention of the House to the question before it. But if this was his mode of confining himself to the subject under discussion, he could not conceive how largely the hon. gentleman might think himself entitled to expatiate, when the whole question of agricultural distress should be brought forward. In offering himself to the House, he would rather follow the example of the hon. gentleman, than his precept. In the first place, he begged leave to make a few observations on the bill that went by his name, however small a portion of merit he had in the measure—a bill that had of late been the subject of discussion with every one who speculated on the prevailing distress, both within and without the walls of parliament. From the share he had in introducing it, as chairman of the committee at which it was recommended, he might he allowed to say a few words on its character and effects. At the time that he presented it to parliament, and when it was more popular than it was at present, he had arrogated no merit for the work—
 492 493 494 s. s.; s., s. s. 495 496 l. s. l. s. d. l. s.; l. s. 497 498
 Mr. Peel  said, that where any of the offices in question had of late years been filled up, the appointments had been given with a full understanding that, in case of abolition, no claim to compensation should accrue.
 Sir G. Warrender  said, that in the committee of supply on Friday, he would give the hon. member all the information he required.
 Sir G. Warrender  remarked, that the vote in question was a mere matter of course.
 Sir John Shelley  said that the hon.
 465
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that if the advice of the hon. member were pursued, we might as well blow up our dock-yards and burn our ships, for in the course of a very short time we should have no seamen. It was
 458
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the estimates should be laid on the table, before they proceeded to a vote of supply for the Navy.
 Sir John Newport  said, that if compensations were to be given, in any cases, they could only be given where the proceedings had been legal. Now, it was doubtful whether most of the officers in question had not long been taking monies to which they were not entitled. When individuals were convicted of misconduct, it was usual to dismiss them without compensation; and why should not the same course be taken with respect to classes?
 Sir J. Newport  deprecated its being held out as it had been, out of parliament, and rather invidiously, that this was a pure and absolute boon to Ireland; whereas, it was only part and parcel of the act of Union, or at least carrying into effect the provisions of that act. It must not however be left out of view, that the situation of Ireland was very peculiar. With regard to the order of reference, he recommended strongly that the objects to which the committee were to direct its attention should be specifically defined. They would otherwise, probably, travel into matters not at present in the contemplation of the House, and would protract the report beyond the period when it might reasonably be expected. He much doubted, whether it would not have been better for ministers to have brought down their measures at once, without waiting for the deliberations of a committee.
 Mr. Gooch  said, he was desirous of correcting some of the misrepresentations which had taken place respecting him at several public meetings. He had been described, as having brought forward this subject last year, in collusion with the government, in order to prevent enquiry. If he had acted such a part, he should have thought himself unworthy to represent that county which sent him to parliament, or any other. Having been sent there to represent one of the first agricultural counties in England, he had believed it to be his duty, when he saw their table covered with petitions, all describing the existence of one unusual scene of distress, to call the attention of the House to it. Though little qualified to perform such a task, he had determined on taking it up as nobody else did. He wished for that inquiry which had taken place; but which, he was sorry to say, had done little. He had, in the first instance, thought it right to ascertain his own strength, and the strength of those opposed to him. Feeling no wish to raise the landed interest to the injury of other interests, he had not anticipated much opposition from the commercial
 463 l. 464
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, it was quite impossible for the magistrates of the county of Somerset to act from such motives as had been ascribed to them by the hon. member. It was very hard that magistrates, while acting conscientiously in the performance of their arduous duties, should be subjected to such unmerited attacks. He thought the House would do well to set its face against such proceedings. He would not oppose the bringing up of the petition; but, in his opinion, the House should do something to show its disapprobation of the calumnies that had been cast on the magistrates of Somersetshire, ever since they had any thing to do with this individual. With respect to the prayer of the petition, he conceived it would be very wrong for the House to set aside, in any manner, the sentence pronounced by a court of law. The hon. member was wholly in error, if he thought that Mr. Hunt had been treated with malice or caprice. He was equally wrong if he supposed that that individual was treated as a prisoner sentenced to solitary confinement. The fact was, that when Mr. Hunt was first placed in the prison, he received indulgences which no person, under his circumstances, had a right to expect: and the privations of which he now complained were occasioned by the withholding the indulgences that were originally extended to him. He denied, altogether, that Mr. Hunt had been improperly treated.
 The Solicitor General  said, it was extraordinary that the hon. member for Aberdeen had thought fit to repeat the attack on the magistrates of Somersetshire, which had been indulged in some days ago, on an occasion similar to the present. He had stated to the House at that time the situation in which Mr. Hunt stood. That individual had made application to the Court of King's Bench, praying that he might be attended by his surgeon and attorney. It was not, however, customary for the court to act, except on affidavit; and they took the necessary steps to enable Mr. Hunt to state, on oath, what he had to allege against the magistrates. Those very judges who had been so scandalously libelled by the member for Aberdeen, contrary to the usual course which obtained in such cases, and although the
 514 515
 Mr. Bennet  said, that Mr. Hunt had made no application to the Court of King's Bench, but had merely written a letter to Mr. Justice Bayley. He was not in the habit of corresponding with Mr. Hunt, but he had received a letter from him that morning, complaining of his treatment. Perhaps the severity exercised towards him might have originated in his having so successfully exposed the malpractices that had long existed in Ilchester gaol. He believed that the arrangements made in the gaol, under the order of the judges, were not applicable to persons under sentence for an offence like Mr. Hunt's. Those rules and regulations were, in fact, directed against felons; and he believed it was the first time that a person in the
 516
 The Solicitor General  again offered himself to the notice of the House, for the purpose of explaining what had passed in the Court of King's Bench with respect to Mr. Hunt. Mr. Hunt did not, indeed, make a regular application to the Court of King's Bench; but he wrote a letter to Mr. Justice Bayley, who immediately communicated it to the other judges, in which he complained that his surgeon and solicitor were excluded from him, and expressed a wish that an order should be made to allow of their attendance. The Court of King's Bench could make no order, and could give no judgment, except on affidavits; but the judges did all they could do. They sent to the gaol, and desired that the solicitor of Mr. Hunt should be admitted to him, in order that he might draw up the affidavits which were necessary for a regular application. An hon. member
 518
 The Solicitor General  could assure the House that he had no intention but to justify himself.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that if it should turn out that Mr. Hunt was even for eight hours in solitary confinement, he should be the foremost to say it was improper. But at present he did not believe it even on the authority of a statement signed "Henry Hunt."
 Lord Binning  expressed his satisfaction at hearing the hon. member for Aberdeen avow, that parliamentary reform was the real object of the course which
 550 551
 Mr. Kennedy  said, that if the motion were not agreed to, the people of Scotland would have reason to complain of the conduct of that House, and of the principles upon which they acted. One set of gentlemen had objected to this motion, on the ground that it insidiously went to introduce the principle of parliamentary reform into Scotland. But upon this ground, any proposition of amendment might be resisted, as every such proposition must lead to reform. For himself, however, be was ready to say, that he should not think any proposition of amendment in Scotland worthy of support, that did not tend to the establishment of reform in that country, where the system of popular representation was so egregiously unequal, that Edinburgh, for instance, containing a population of no less than 120,000 souls, was represented in that House by a member who had only nineteen votes; for that was the number who voted for the return of the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. W. Dundas). But if the House would go into the proposed inquiry, the gross injustice of the general system of representation for Scotland would be fully exposed. The hon. member defended himself and others with whom he acted, upon the subject of their secession from the committee appointed in a former session to investigate the corrupt condition of the Scots burghs, alleging that they were influenced on this occasion by a fact which was quite palpable, namely, that several gentlemen came into that committee with pre-conceived opinions or impressions, not at ail likely to yield to any evidence that might be adduced. Against such prepossessions he and his friends thought it vain to contend; and therefore they seceded from the committee, notwithstanding their conviction of the means which they possessed to establish all the allegations of the various petitioners. With regard to the articles of the Union, to which the noble member for Rochester had alluded, he was prepared to maintain, that those articles offered no obstacle whatever to the adoption of any measure for ameliorating
 552
 Sir R. Fergusson  conceived, that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Forbes) had unjustly characterized the speech of his hon. friend who had never said that the burgh of Aberdeen was bankrupt, but had contended, that it was so far bankrupt as to have given up its property to trustees. The noble lord (Binning) had said, in answer to the speech of the noble mover, "Wait, gentlemen, for God's sake, for the bill of the Lord Advocate; see what that will do." Now, he, for one, could not wait, and he would tell the House why. That learned lord seemed to propose to take no notice of the greatest evil complained of; namely, self-election. Unless they did away with that, the House would do nothing. The noble lord was so horrified at the mere sound of "reform," that he exclaimed, "Good God! how can people talk of reform in these days, and thereby endanger the constitution?—Two noble lords opposite had lately expressed their great admiration of old parchments and charters; if they were so fond of these documents, he wished they would look a little to the old declarations made by former members of parliament, who had protested that they felt it to be their bounden duty to listen to the complaints of the people. If, instead of searching into old parchments and charters, those noble lords would attentively examine the Journals of the House, he thought they would employ their time much better.
 Mr. Maberly  conceived that a fair statement had not been made to the House of the affairs of the burgh of Aberdeen. He had reason to know that the burgh was once nearly approaching a state of bankruptcy; but by good ma-
 554
 The Lord Advocate  stated his surprise at the conduct pursued by the noble lord. After the three voluminous reports of three different committees which had been laid on the table of the House, he had expected that the noble lord would have followed one of two courses—either that he would have brought forward some specific remedy for the evils of which he complained, in the shape of a legislative measure; or else, that he would have waited till he had seen the bill, of which he (the lord advocate) had given notice, and which the committee had deemed sufficient for the object in view. The nature of that bill he was not bound to state; but he thought that the noble lord, from the recommendation of the committee, might have guessed that it was of a comprehensive nature, and sufficient to effect a remedy for the existing grievances, without injuring any chartered rights, or violating any article of the Union—which the reform proposed by the noble lord was certainly calculated to do. He made no scruple in declaring, that his plan would not alter the constitution of the royal burghs. He thought it right to state it thus explicitly, because he could not view any alteration in the constitution of them in any other light than that of a parliamentary reform of the boroughs of Scotland. Such a reform might, or might not, be right, but, at any rate it ought to be judged by its own merits, and not be determined upon by a side wind. That the noble lord himself considered the question of burgh reform as calculated to produce parliamentary reform, was evident from many of the steps which he had taken, but more especially from this—that though there were both burghs of regality and burghs of barony, whose internal government was replete with the same abuses as the royal burghs, the noble lord had not attempted to obtain any reform in their constitution. And what was the reason for this conduct? He would tell the House in a few words:—The royal burghs (at least those for which the noble lord had interested himself), returned members to parliament;
 543 544 l. 545
 Lord A. Hamilton,  in reply, contended, that by receiving the report the House had, in effect admitted the allegations of the petitioners to be true; and he was naturally induced to suppose they would either devise some remedy for the alleged evils, or grant a committee to inquire into the best means to be adopted for their removal: but they had done neither the one thing nor the other. What he now asked was, not that they should pledge themselves to, any specific measure of relief; but that, having admitted the truth of the facts stated by the petitioners, they would grant them a committee for the purpose of considering their case. The opponents of the motion had mixed up with it the general question of parliamentary reform, with which it had no connexion. This was in itself a proof of the weakness of their cause. The learned lord opposite was pleased to say, that there were other burghs in which similar abuses were stated to exist. If the learned lord could show one half the grievances in those burghs which he had shown to prevail in the royal burghs, he would agree with him in any measure which might be productive of their correction. The learned lord had also stated, that the gaols of the burgh of Hamilton were in a most inefficient state. He believed it was so, as well as most of the gaols in Scotland; and having sat on the committee which inquired into those matters, he could state that it was found to be owing to the scandalous misuse of the funds. The learned lord had said there was no corruption in those burghs. Now, he had made no charge of peculation; but he would say, that the magistrates of Aberdeen had sanctioned the representation of their debt at 6000 l. l. 555
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose and said:—Mr. Speaker; I rise for the purpose of persuading this House, to resolve itself into a committee of the whole House to consider the Reports which have been made to it, by its own orders, on the subject of the Royal Burghs of Scotland. After the length of time, which this subject has been before the House and the public, and the share which I have taken in the investigation of it, I owe it, as a duty to the petitioners, to this House, and to myself, to endeavour at last, to bring it to some specific, some profitable termination. Until my efforts are superseded by some decision of this House, those efforts shall be directed towards the success of the cause, in which I originally embarked, without being aware, I must confess, of the time or the labour it would require, or of the opposition I should encounter—I mean, to the attainment of some reform in the internal constitution and internal management of Scotch Burghs. It is a cause in which some 500,000 of my countrymen are interested, who have no representatives—at least no direct representatives—in this House—in which revenues of more than 100,000 l. 520 521 522 523 too well 524 * * 525 526 527 528 529 l. s. d. 530 * * in perpetuo; † "The mode in which the books of the city have been kept, and their (council) ignorance of the true state of its revenues and expenditure, may serve to account for the present situation of its affairs. No book exhibiting an account of the debts of the city, or of its property, or of its nett revenue, or of the necessary annual charges on the revenue; or of the comparative amount of annual expenditure and revenue, has ever been kept, &c."—P. 19. 531 * * * * † "In 1816, the sum of 59,000 l. l.; l., l. ‡ "And in 1817, provost Hadden, for the first time, recorded the resolutions of the inhabitants of 1799, as a probative writ in the sheriff's court books; in order, if possible, to establish that liability !!!"—P. 22. § "In consequence of this (bankruptcy), the treasurer, magistrates, and town council, and new street trustees, made over all the property, feu-duties, and funds under their charge, to trustees, for payment of the treasurer's creditors."—P. 23. ॥ "With respect to the property of the burgh, which is denominated common good. The fishings of the Dee and Don, now producing about 10,000 l. l. s. d.; ¶ "Mr. Hardie, the chamberlain, states, that there is not one charitable institution under the management of the town council, whose funds have not been lent to the treasurer, and involved in the town's insolvency."—P. 24. * * 532 l., l.; * dente, that these statements (to the burgesses at annual courts at Michaelmas) as long as he can remember, never did exhibit, and never were really intended to exhibit, a statement of the money affairs of the town. In 1810 the debt is stated to amount in whole to 6,874 l., l., l. l., l." * l. 533 * * 534 enactment to enable the burgesses of Dundee to choose their own magistrates, would give general satisfaction, and be a very great benefit both to the town and country."—P. 31. 535 536 537 538 * Desuetude * 539 * * 540 541 542
 Mr. C. Forbes  said, that the embarrassments of the burgh of Aberdeen had been very much exaggerated. The magistrates had effected very large reductions in the debt, which debt he doubted not they would soon be able to pay off, with 5 per cent interest. He must beg to contradict one part of the statement of an hon. member, who had said, that if all the revenues of the burgh of Aberdeen were mortgaged, they would be insufficient to defray its debts. The House would not fail to observe with pleasure, by the speech which they had just heard delivered by a noble lord, that arrangements had been adopted by the magistrates which reflected upon them the highest credit. Indeed, the improvements which had been effected in Aberdeen within the last twenty or thirty years were truly surprising; and such as no person, at that distance of time, would have ventured to predict. The manufacturers were active, and trade was in a most flourishing condition. He then adverted to the conduct of the burgh magistrates, and vindicated them from a charge which had been most unfairly thrown out against them, of having applied the public money in a very improvident manner. He had lately received a letter from one of those respectable individuals, informing him that the hon. member for Montrose had himself declared to them, that he never meant to insinuate any thing against their honour. After such a declaration, it was somewhat singular that the hon. gentleman should hazard aspersions, reflecting upon those magistrates. In allusion to one part of the hon. gentleman's speech, about the number of independent votes, he would be glad to know what chance the hon. gentleman conceived he had of beings re-
 553
 Mr. Jones  thought the measures proposed by his majesty's ministers were insufficient to afford effectual relief to the agricultural interest. The reduction of 1 s. 510 d.
 Mr. Lockhart  was of opinion, that the House had a right, when it was necessary,
 517
 Mr. Lockhart,  in presenting a Petition from the owners and occupiers of land in Scarsdale, in the county of Derby, complaining of Agricultural distress, observed, that the petitioners were of opinion that excessive production was one of the causes of the present distress, and that this was one of the strongest reasons why that production should not be increased by foreign importation. They were utterly unable, however, to comprehend the doctrine which had been recently broached in that House, that taxation was not the cause of their distress, and were firmly persuaded that unless the strictest economy and retrenchment were enforced in every department of the state, not only the agricultural interest, but every class of the community, would be inevitably involved in ruin.
 Mr. Hume rose, to present a Petition to the House which was signed by between 4,000 and 5,000 inhabitants of Preston, in Lancashire, and its vicinity; complaining of the severity of the imprisonment of Mr. Hunt. If the circumstances stated in it were true, he hesitated not to say, that the petition demanded the attention of parliament. He had written to the individual himself; to know whether the statements contained in the petition was, or was not correct, and as far as he was concerned, his statement went to substantiate the facts alleged. It appeared that Mr. Hunt had been placed for a number of days in solitary confinement—not a human creature being allowed, during that period to have access to him. He was taken ill and sent for his surgeon; but that individual was not allowed to see
 511 512 513
 Mr. Hume  denied that he had charged the magistrates of Aberdeen with corruption, or attempted to cast the slightest imputation upon their character. All he had said with respect to these gentlemen was founded upon a letter written by one of them to his noble friend, in which letter the writer went the length of stating, that under the present corrupt administration of the burgh alluded to, it was impossible for any man concerned in that administration to act any other than a knavish part.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would put the House in mind that allegations of a similar nature, which an hon. baronet had on a former occasion denied, had upon examination, turned out to be well founded; and he had no doubt but the present allegations would turn out to be so. It had been asked, what authority there was for saying that Mr. Hunt had been in solitary confinement? He had just received from Mr. Hunt a letter, which stated, that the complaints were literally true. Twenty-six days had elapsed since Mr. Hunt preferred his complaint, and he was in solitary confinement still. The learned gentleman, in replying to him, had made use of abuse, instead of argument; he had put the word ''infamous" into his mouth, but he could assure the learned gentleman that he must use argument, and not abuse, if he hoped to obtain any credit with him. It was very well for gentlemen clothed in a little brief
 519
 Mr. Hume  rose at that stage of the debate to correct several inaccuracies in the speech of the learned lord. As the learned lord had however observed, that the committee was unanimous, that all the allegations of the petitioners against abuses in the Scots burghs were fully proved, it was well that the House should know what those allegations were. The petitioners alleged, that the magistrates were self-elected and irresponsible; that the public property had been wasted and sold by them, that the funds of public and private charities entrusted to them,  ex officio, 546 547 l. 548 549 l. l l.
 The Speaker  said, that however mysterious the language of the hon. and learned gentleman was, he could know what meaning they were intended to convey, and he was sure that the House would see the propriety of his interfering, as the words in his opinion conveyed a meaning which would tend to invade the order of the house.
 Mr. Bankes  said, that though he was aware that the subject to which the hon. member who had just sat down had alluded, was not altogether relevant to the debate, he could not help thanking him for having mentioned to the house a mode of relief which he conceived to be best adapted to the distress of the country. There could be no doubt of the general proposition, that a diminution of taxation
 588 l. l. 589 590
 Mr. Robinson  said, that whatever he might think of the course suggested by the noble lord, he was bound to do justice to the motive which actuated him, and to the manner in which he had brought his proposition before the House; and nothing could be more inconsistent with the duty of ministers, than to blink the fair question by a technical objection. If such a course would be contrary to the duty and to the dignity of his majesty's ministers, so was it contrary to their intention. Ministers thought that the House ought to have the question directly before it: all they asked for was the decision of the House, and they thanked the noble lord for giving them an opportunity to obtain it. Now, in looking at the plan which the noble lord had suggested to the House, and in contrasting it with that proposed by ministers, it was material that the House should sedulously keep in mind the circumstances under which it discussed the question in point. Because the question before the House was, not whether there should be a reduction, or no reduction, of taxes—not whether the House should now immediately proceed to commence a reduction of the taxes; but whether it would be wiser to carry the extent of that reduction to the fall amount of the surplus of income over expenditure, or to endeavour to combine the maintenance and integrity of that surplus with a gradual progressive reduction of taxes? Now this was the first time for nearly forty years, that the House had been in a condition to discuss what it would be best to do with an actual, undisputed surplus of revenue; and the country ought to look, even upon the noble lord's view of the case, at the circumstances by which that surplus had been produced. The circumstances to which that surplus was attributable were, the reduction of expenditure and the improvement of revenue. He did not think it necessary at present to follow the noble lord through the particular details to which he had referred, but he would say this, that even if the noble lord and those about him could satisfy parliament that the reduction effected by ministers was insufficient—that there were farther objects to which that reduction might apply—and that its in
 565 566 567 l. l. l. l. l. 568 sæva necessitas, ultimum supplicium, 569 "robur et æs triplex circa pectus" l. 570 l., l. 571
 The Marquis of Londonderry  here intimated, that he had computed the amount of redemption at 39,000,000 1.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the right hon. gentleman had stated what he conceived to be the origin of the sinking fund, as established by Mr. Pitt. He had, however, not stated it quite correctly. The right hon. gentleman complained that the system of Mr. Pitt had been departed from with respect to the sinking fund; but he should have stated, also, that if that system had been adhered to, the country would now be subjected to 17 millions of additional taxes. If the right hon. gentleman conceived it intolerable to keep up a sinking fund of five millions, how much more oppressive should he, in fairness, consider it to preserve entire the system of Mr. Pitt, which would subject the country to 17 millions of additional taxes? Such a sum would have enabled us to reduce rapidly the public debt, and to perform great financial results. The sacrifice, however, would have been in proportion to the advantage. Instead of being able to remit taxes after the peace, we should now have been labouring under the great burthen and unalleviated pressure of 17 millions of taxes. The property tax, and other taxes which had been reduced, would have been necessarily kept up to their war amount. It was true that our sinking fund of five millions was small, when compared with 17 millions; but it seemed adequate to the support of public credit, if religiously guarded and properly applied to redeem the debt. Though nominally greater before the late change, it was never so effective; for it could not be denied that, however great the nominal amount of a sinking fund, the only part of it applicable to the redemption of debt was the surplus of the public income over the public expenditure. It had been asked, if the nominal sinking fund had been abolished, why keep up the machinery by which its operations were carried on? To this he replied, that, connected as it was with all the late acts of parliament regarding finance, the entire sweeping away of the machinery would require other changes, and therefore was a measure not to be
 607 l. l. l., l., l. 608 l., l. l. l. 609
 Lord John Russell  said, he gave credit to the right hon. member for the way in which he had met the proposition of his noble friend, and was pleased that the right hon. gentleman had moved his own resolutions instead of merely proposing to negative the motion of the noble lord. He could not help thinking, however, that many parts of the right hon. member's speech might have been spared without prejudice to the cause which he attempted to sustain. Amazing stress was laid upon the fact, that the House was now, for the first time these forty years, discussing the disposal of a real surplus revenue. What! after hearing for ever of the wonderful effects of Mr. Pitt's sinking fund, were they to rejoice because they now found, for the first time, that they had any sinking fund whatever? Why, parliament had voted the existence of a surplus in 1819. It was now, he believed, generally allowed, that Mr. Pitt's expectations as to the efficacy of a sinking fund were so extravagant as to amount pretty nearly to a delusion. During the war, at all events, according to Dr. Hamilton, the fund was an additional expense of 30,000,000 l. l.; 572 l. l. l. l. l. 573 l. l. l.; l. l.; l. l.; l. l. 574 575 576 577
 Mr. Tierney  said, that in rising to follow the hon. gentleman who last spoke, he had to claim the patience of the House while he stated the reasons which influenced him, on the present occasion, to depart from the opinions he had long entertained in the course of his political life, upon this particular subject of the sinking fund. He should have left the House on that night most reluctantly were he doomed to give a silent vote under such circumstances. He was prepared at the outset to be visited with every species of attack for the opinions he was about to deliver. After the treatment his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had received for delivering his sentiments; after he had been abused, and vilified, and charged with being prepared to do this and do that, taking advantage of a period of public distress, he (Mr. T.) could have little reason to hope that he could escape after the delivery of his opinions upon what was called, most perversely called, a sinking fund. The hon. gentleman who spoke last seemed to think that he also had been exposed to much misconception and misrepresentation: possibly he had been, it was that to which they were all liable, and few men had escaped through public life without their share. The hon. gentleman had proposed in the course of the last session, an address respecting economy and retrenchment; and had obtained the credit of then acting from the conviction of his own impressions and independent of the government; but this night it came out, from what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Robinson), that to the government the whole credit of the hon. gentleman's (Mr. Bankes) proposition was due; and that he whom they were wont to consider as the Nestor of wisdom and independence on subjects of economy, had, on the occasion alluded to, acted merely as the mouth-piece of his majesty's Treasury. The right hon. gentleman had freely and candidly avowed, that, in truth, the proposition came from government, and that they took full credit for its adoption.—On the subject of the prevailing agricultural distress, and the remedial measures which the present crisis called for, he should explain directly, why he was now ready to depart from the line of conduct which he had before pursued, when the sinking fund was talked of. He would, however, in the first instance remark, that
 592 l. l., 593 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 594 l. 595 596 l. l. l. l. l. 597 l. l., l.
 Mr. Tierney  did not object to the noble lord's correction, and, as he was fond of round numbers, he would say 40,000,000 l. l., l. l.; l l. l. 599 l.; l. 600 601 602 603 l., . l. l. l.; l. pro tanto l. 604 l. l. 605 l. 606
 Mr. Ramsden  said, he had little doubt as to the degree of distress which pervaded the country. What the farmers would say, when they heard of the relief which the noble marquis offered to the country on Friday last, he knew not. He was convinced that the plan would afford no relief; and thought that the shilling per bushel on malt, had better have been kept in the hands of ministers than sent out to insult the country. He wished the gentlemen opposite to keep their places; but he thought it was their duty to manifest some sympathy towards a suffering country: and he must say, that he could not support any set of ministers, unless they greatly lessened the expenditure, and agreed to such a reform in the House of Commons, as would ensure amongst its members a sympathy with the distresses of the country at large.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, that the remedies which had been proposed by ministers had not in general been deemed satisfactory; he, therefore, might be pardoned if' he took the liberty of throwing out another for the consideration of parliament. The view which he took of the present distress was not confined to its effects on the agricultural interest only, but upon the whole community. It had been avowed, that the million and a half of taxes that it was intended to take off would hardly be felt as
 587 s., s. s. s. s. s. s. s., s. s.
 Mr. Denison  said, he held in his hand a Petition from the freeholders of the county of Surrey, complaining of the impoverished state of the Agricultural interest. The petition was proposed at one of the most respectable meetings ever held in that county, and was carried almost unanimously. The petitioners, in respectful language, stated the deep distress, amounting almost to pauperism, in which the county, and more particularly the agricultural interest was involved. They attributed that distress to the wasteful expenditure of the public money, which they conceived to arise, in a great degree, from the want of a proper representation
 558
 Mr. Wilmot  assured the House, that as the question had been so frequently debated, he would confine himself to the arguments which had been urged that evening, and to which he would advert as shortly as possible. And, first, he would apply himself to the removal of two erroneous statements which had been made in the course of the debate. First, the noble mover and the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, said, that his majesty's ministers attributed the improved condition of the manufacturing interest of the country, to their own measures. Such an assertion had never been made. Secondly, the hon. gentleman who spoke last said, that government declared last session that no further reduction of expenditure could be accomplished. This, too, he positively denied. All that they said was, that the reduction had at that time been carried as far as was consistent with the interests of the country. Now, though he was prepared to contend, that such an assertion on the part of ministers was perfectly correct, he should refrain from doing so at present in order to confine himself more directly to the question before the House. It was true that any member might agree in the necessity of pushing reduction as far as possible; but it did not follow that he would therefore agree in the necessity of abolishing the sinking fund, which was a question at once different in its nature and greater in its importance, since it involved in it the credit and good faith of the country. Now, in considering in what manner a reduction of expenditure should be effected, the House was bound to consider two things—first, that the reduction should not injure the efficiency of the office so reduced; and, secondly, that if the duties of it should ever increase, and it should become necessary to place the office on its former establishment, it should not occasion a greater expenditure to renew it than had been saved by the proposed reduction. As to the observations which the noble lord had made upon the civil list, he begged leave to remind the House that there were now charged upon it several pensions which had been conferred on deserving individuals for their conduct during the war, and which at the time of conferring them had been approved by parliament. The mention of this circum-
 585 586
 Mr. W. Whitmore  rose, to express his satisfaction at the statement which he had heard from the noble marquis on a former evening, respecting the finances of the -country, and to add, that, considering the best interests of the country to depend upon the inviolability of its faith towards the public creditor, he thought that, under all circumstances, every reasonable
 578 rationale l. 579 s. s. s. 580 l. s. s. 581
 Mr. Robert Price  observed, that the
 582 l. 583 584
 Lord Althorp  said, he felt it necessary to explain why he considered it desirable that some question should be brought before the House upon the subject of the noble marquis's plan. When the noble lord first brought forward his proposition, it was extremely difficult to know whether the House could, on any particular day, come to a direct vote of approbation or disapprobation upon that plan. He, therefore, conceiving it essential to give a distinct opinion upon that proposition, took the first opportunity of giving the notice in pursuance of which he now addressed the House. He was aware that, if it were merely argued whether the plan proposed was satisfactory or not, his observations would be brought within a very narrow compass. But he felt himself, in fairness, called upon to state his own views of the policy which ought to be adopted in the present distressed state of the country. In giving those views, he found himself unequal to the details which belonged to the subject, but he would compress his observations within as short a limit as he could. The first consideration which presented itself
 559 560 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 561 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 562 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 563 l. l. l. l. 564
 Mr. R. Ward.— I wish to inform the hon. gentleman, that since the estimates were presented, a further reduction has taken place, which makes them amount to not more than 81,000 l.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he wished to bring back the House to the real question before them, and from which the hon. gentleman had attempted to divert them, by
 633 634
 Mr. Bennet  said, he should like to be informed why 8,000 marines were now to be kept up? Was a war now more probable than in 1817? In 1822 the peace establishment was larger than in 1817, while the country was labouring under increased distress. The difference was at least 200,000 l. 643
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he saw very clearly that ministers intended to refuse every kind of information that could enable the House to investigate the subject. All propositions for inquiry were met by a direct negative, supported by the ordinary ministerial majority; and as this course had been pursued quite long enough for one night, he would move "that the chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again."
 Mr. Croker  said, the hon. gentleman had omitted to take into his consideration 671,000 l.
 Mr. Croker  said, the hon. gentleman had done him more credit than he deserved, by attributing to him any wit; but the hon. gentleman had used the expression "the wit which he knew how to use here and elsewhere." Now he assured the hon. gentleman on his honour as a gentleman, that out of that House he had never taken the liberty to make the slightest sinister allusion to the hon. gentleman or his friends.
 Mr. Croker,  reminded the House, that he had commenced his former speech by saying that the ordinary vote was about 1,900,000 l., l. 641
 Mr. Croker  commenced by stating the regret which he felt in having to come forward to oppose any thing like examination into the public expenditure of the country. He was convinced, however, that it was his duty to do so upon the present occasion, inasmuch as the hon. member for Aberdeen had not satisfied him that ministers had been anxious to withhold from him any information which they could communicate consistently with their duty to the public. Of all the myriads of papers for which the hon. member had moved, these would be the first that government had refused him. He trusted, however, that he should be able to show, that they refused them upon grounds that were just and satisfactory, and not altogether unconnected with the public safety. He must premise what he had to offer to the House, by observing, that the navy estimates had been voted for about 160 or 170 years in the very same manner in which they were now proposed, and that the present was the very first time, among all the wild fancies that had entered into
 622 623 624 in prospectu. 625 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 626 627 l. 628 l. l. l. l. l. l., l., 629 l. l. s. d. l. l. 630 l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. 631 632
 Mr. Hume  was glad to hear that such a reduction had been made; but still that did not at all affect his argument. He wished to have detailed accounts of the manner in which the money voted for the Ordnance estimates was expended; because he had heard from pretty good authority, that 20,000 l. 618 l. l. l. l. l. 619 l. s. l. l. s. l. 620 l. 621 l.,
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not consent to the House resolving itself into the committee at present if he could prevent it, and he would state his reasons. In the last session it was stated by ministers, that, for the future, every information would be given that might be requisite to explain the particulars of the proposed estimates. Notwithstanding this promise, which the noble marquis was bound to fulfil, they now refused to grant any account in detail of the application of the large sums which they called upon the House to grant. They on this night called for a sum of not less than 1,781,325 l. sub silentio, 613 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 614 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 615 l. l. l. s. l. s. 616 l. l. l. 617 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he must again ask what were the circumstances of the country which required that there should be 2000 men now more than in 1817, for the same purpose? The reductions that had been made in the Navy were not owing to the economy of ministers, but to the death of Buonaparte. The number of the marines he thought disproportionate with the number of seamen, and he should, therefore, propose as an amendment, that "19,000" be substituted for "21,000."
 Mr. Hume,  in rising to move for the production of some other papers, said, he would take that opportunity of making some observations upon what had fallen from the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Croker) upon a former occasion. A great part of what the hon. gentleman pretended to answer, he (Mr. Hume) had never uttered; and that which he
 635 636 l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l. l. l.; l. l. l. 637 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 638 l. s., l. s. l. l. 639 l. l., 640 l. l. l.,
 Mr. Hume  pledged himself to prove that the hon. gentleman was in error. He had added the sum of 671,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the estimate for 1817 was 5,985,415 l. l. l.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that if hon. members would look to the other parts of the navy estimates they would see there was a reduction equal to two millions. He hoped the House would not reduce any part of that useful body of men, the royal marines.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that on the opening of a former war the country had suffered materially from the want of a sufficient number of marines to man the Navy with. The consequence was, that they were obliged to employ soldiers to their great dissatisfaction; and to the detriment of the service; for they were all sea-sick as soon as they got out to sea. Upon this it was thought better to keep up a large number of seasoned marines, who in peace might be employed in doing garrison duty in the sea-ports, and in the event of war, be ready to man the service. The Admiralty did not want to increase the number of seamen for the service of the ensuing year, and they were loath to diminish the body of marines. They might have been able to reduce more, had it not been for the increased demand from South America and the Mediterranean; and it should be remembered, that out of 13,000 seamen, 1,500 were employed round the coast for the security of the revenue.
 Sir I. Coffin  expressed his conviction of the propriety of maintaining the marine corps at as high a rate as possible. It was obviously desirable that young men should be educated for the public service; for in the event of a new war was it tolerable that the defence of the country should be entrusted to such old men as himself, who had served forty years in the Navy, and who were scarcely able to step over a three-legged stool.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that if he understood the hon. mover, his object was, to establish two propositions; first, that the opening of a letter franked by him was illegal; and secondly, that it was a breach of the privileges of the House. If he should be able to disprove both these points, he apprehended there would be an end of the hon. gentleman's case. Before he proceeded with his argument on the first point, he could not but express his surprise at the opinion of a learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham), on a former evening, as to the opening of letters sent by convicts on board the hulks; and he thought that, on a little more mature reflection, the learned gentleman would not himself persist in the opinion then given. It would not be denied, that
 648 649 650
 Mr. Bennet  said, that if he understood the right hon. gentleman right, he had laid it down as the law of the land, that magistrates, when their regulations were sanctioned by judges, had a right to legislate for gaols, and that they could not only enforce, but aggravate punishments, by placing persons in solitary confinement. Now, the magistrates might make regulations, and the judges assent to them; but such regulations could only relate to the hours of labour and of diet, and such matters. The magistrates might take care that the prisoners had all the advantages consistent with their situation and sentence, but beyond that they had no power at all. He would put it to the House, whether a judge had a right to increase the term of
 651
 The Attorney General  said, that though he was fully prepared to admit, that neither the magistrates nor the gaoler had a right to increase the punishment of any individual beyond the degree mentioned in the sentence of the court, still he was prepared to argue that they had a right to make such regulations as they thought proper for the internal government of the prison, liable, however, to the subsequent confirmation or rejection of the judges of the assize. Now, a set of regulations having been agreed to by the magistrates of Lancashire, and subsequently approved of by the judges, it became the duty of the gaoler implicitly to obey them. Indeed, the gaoler would have been guilty of a gross dereliction of his duty, if he had obeyed the hint given him in the letter of the hon. member for Carlisle, and had refrained from opening the letter sent to the prisoner under his custody. In the, case of the Gloucester gaoler, he took upon himself to stop the letters of prisoners, without orders from magistrates. The letter of lord Sidmouth written upon that occasion, was not a circular. It was transcribed by some of the magistrates of Somerset, and afterwards entered upon the journals of Ilchester gaol, where Hunt found it, and supposed it to have been a circular. Would any member say, that he had a right to enter into any gaol in the kingdom, in order to hold communication with those confined in it. Now if hon. members had not a right to communicate personally with all persons confined in gaol, how could they have a right to communicate with them in all cases by letter? As to a breach of privilege, he was quite confident that none had been Committed.
 Mr. Bernal  contended, that the absence of all exceptions in the statutes which had been quoted, saving the privileges of members, was a proof that it was not supposed that the general rule, by which those privileges were secured to them, was affected. If this privilege were not-maintained, cases of great severity might exist in prisons, which would never be known to the world. It would be far better to suffer the danger and inconvenience of a solitary instance of an improper use of the privilege, than the much greater danger and inconvenience of preventing acts of oppression from being brought to light. In his opinion, there ought always to be the most free mad unrestrained communication between
 653
 Mr. Wynn  maintained, that neither a breach of privilege nor of the law of the land had been committed. That the law of the land had not been infringed, was clear from the act of queen Anne, on which so much stress had been already laid. That the privileges of the House had not been violated, was also evident from this—that the resolutions to which allusions had been made only referred to the delivery of letters by the post. With regard to the resolution of 1689, the circumstances which had given rise to it ought to be taken into consideration. The House had come to that resolution in consequence of the governor of Hull having seized upon the mail bag, and opened all the letters it contained, among which were some written to and by members of parliament. Now, it ought to be recollected that this event had occurred shortly after the Revolution, at a time of great public alarm and confusion; and that, though the House had come to such a resolution as the hon. member for Southwark had described, it had not inflicted any punishment upon the offender. Indeed, the House was bound to consider, in reference to the present question of privilege, what were the powers of magistrates and gaolers before the acts of George 2nd and George 3rd. Before that time they had the power of adopting all such regulations as appeared to them
 654
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the case divided itself under two heads—the one was a question of law, the other of privilege. If there had been any offence committed against the law, no determination which the House might come to could deprive either the hon. member, or the prisoner who had written the letter in question, of a legal remedy. If a legal offence had been committed, redress might be obtained before the proper tribunal, and in the mean time no possible prejudice would be done to the party injured, by the House not interfering. He put the case as if the regulations of the magistrates, and the use of them on the present case were against law; but the hon. and learned gentleman must forgive him, if he said that he thought the law had not been violated. He thought that, upon the face of the case before them, there was enough to raise at least a very strong presumption that the regulations were sanctioned by law—and here he would say, that the law ought to prevail; and that the privileges of members of that House ought not to be allowed to ride over the law. If he were wrong with
 659 bonâ fide 660
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that the hon. mover had admitted, that if he had not been a member he could have no right to complain of the regulations which had formed the subject of debate. The question, then came to this, whether the House were bound to come to a decision on a matter of privilege, which decision would be looked upon as precedent for the future; or whether it would not be more prudent to leave the party to his remedy at law? It should be recollected, that the privilege which the bon, gentleman claimed was not one which was recognised by the former practice of the House; and it would not be difficult to show that, if established, it might, in some cases, operate in a manner highly inconvenient, if not dangerous.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the resolution to which he was about to call the attention of the House, was founded, in its principle, on a transaction which had always formed the subject of panegyric with the writers on the state of England, as one of the greatest proofs of the resources of this country, of extent of its credit, and of the, power
 664 665 l. l. l. l. l. 666 l.; l. l. s. l. 667 l. l. l. l. 668 l. l. l. l. l. 669 670 l., l. l., l. 671 l. 672 l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he considered the plan suggested by ministers on the whole the best, and he saw no reason, founded upon the convenience or the advantage of the parties concerned, to alter any part of it.
 Mr. Williams  entertained considerable doubt as to the policy of the plan, at least so far as it affected persons who had money in the five per cents to an amount less than 1,000 l. l.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that looking to all the circumstances of the case; first to the difficulties which necessarily attended the
 679
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the case supposed by the hon. member would, he hoped, be precluded by some resolutions which would be subsequently read at the table.
 Mr. Wilson  said, that however expedient this measure might be, with a view to the reduction of taxation, still if there were a class of persons upon whom it pressed with peculiar hardship, it was incumbent upon the House to mitigate its severity as much as possible. The interest of this fund was not only reduced from five to four pet cent; but a rod
 680
 Mr. Bankes  could not help thinking that the present project of a sinking fund, was the less meritorious, inasmuch as that plan of liquidating the public debt by the, operation of compound interest was abandoned. He wished to know at what time it would be convenient to the right hon. gentleman to take the debate on this subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he by no means considered the question of abolishing that part of the project of a sinking fund which went to liquidate the debt by compound interest, as decided. It was a question which demanded the most serious attention, and which formed no part of the present measure. It was a question which involved the repeal of many acts of parliament; and he must confess that it appeared to him to be a measure of very questionable policy. As to the question which had been put with regard to trustees, they would be eat powered to act for their principals, and. would be indemnified. The hon. member for Weymouth had expressed some doubt as to the competence of parliament to pay off the five per cents; but it had never before been suggested that the condition imposed by the act of 1784, with regard to the reduction of the five per cents was any other than that parliament should not pay off that fund until 25 millions of the 3 or 4 per cents were paid off or redeemed. But the hon. member seemed to suppose that the national debt was first to be reduced to that amount—a construction which the act of parliament could not bear. As to the hardship with which the transfer was likely to operate upon persons of small property, it should be recollected, that such persons had purchased this stock at a lower rate, and with a larger return of interest, under the express liability of being paid off by government. However much, therefore, they might be objects of commiseration, they had no title to complain; and the inconveniences of their situation would be greatly mitigated by the great reduction which had taken place in all the necessaries of life. Some reasons had been
 681
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it would very much facilitate the plan, if such holders of five per cents as assented, could know at what time the transfer to the four per cents was to take place. The question of the dividends might at first sight offer some difficulty, but this difficulty was more apparent than real, because the very same dividend which was given to a person holding 100 l. l.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought the plan very desirable, and the terms proposed by ministers extremely fair. With regard to the time allowed for option, he thought it amply sufficient. But, suppose persons were to purchase stock in the name of others residing abroad, with a fraudulent intention, would they be entitled to the extended term, or would they be obliged to give their answer by the 16th of March?
 Mr. Ellice  was much indebted to the
 673 674 675 676 l. l., 677 678
 Mr. Ellice  said, that before he proceeded to remark upon what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, be was anxious to put one question to him: upon the answer his (Mr. Ellice's) conduct would entirely depend. He begged to ask if it were probable or possible that the determination of government, so distinctly stated by the chancellor of the exchequer on the subject of the dissent of the proprietors of 5 per cent stock, would undergo re-consideration?
 Lord Stanley  did not see on what ground the motion for declaring the opening of a letter from a prisoner to a member of parliament a breach of their privileges, could be sustained. A similar question had been started last year, and referred to a committee of privileges, and he had never heard that they felt it incumbent upon them to bring the subject forward. That the practice complained of would, under some circumstances, amount to a breach of moral justice between man and man, no one could deny; but there were limits to the privileges due to letters, and when he found that even the judges of the land, were strongly in favour of the practice complained of, he could not think that there were sufficient
 647
 Mr. Bright  wished to know what regulations were to be adopted with regard to trustees.
 Mr. Brougham  begged to make a few observations on what had just fallen from the right hon. gentleman. He confessed he had been anxious to hear what could be said by the right hon. gentleman, well known formerly on his side of the House, and now he trusted to be as well known on the other side of the House, as the strict and vigilant guardian of the privileges of parliament. Since he had heard the right hon. gentleman, however, instead of being weakened, he had been strengthened in his opinion on the subject; as he knew that he had now heard all that could be urged by learning or legal ingenuity. In the first place, he must protest against the doctrine of the right hon. secretary of state, as to that which ought to be considered the test and limitation of the privileges of parliament; namely, that that privilege did not interfere with any act done legally by any established authority; that if, for example, the justices of the session, sanctioned by two of the judges, were empowered by law to make certain regulations for the conduct of gaolers, those regulations were to ride over the privileges of parliament; although there was nothing in the act by which that power was conferred respecting those privileges, except the omission of any clause by which they
 655 656 657
 Mr. Horrocks  referred to several high authorities, to show, that it was lawful for a gaoler to keep every prisoner (who was committed in execution) in close custody. The person whose case was under discussion had been convicted of a very serious offence, and more than ordinary caution was highly necessary. There was a case within his own knowledge which had come before the grand jury of the county, which showed that the power in question was not given to gaolers without abundant reason. A prisoner had sent a letter to one of his acquaintance; the gaoler suspecting that the communication was of an improper nature, opened the letter, and it was found to contain a statement from the prisoner of false facts, affecting to refresh the memory of his friend, who was to be a witness on his trial; and adding, "mind you stick to this, and don't flinch." This circumstance showed the great danger of subornation of perjury; and of which a member might be made the innocent medium. The rules applicable to the case in question, had not been adopted by the magistrates hastily or unadvisedly; and the gaoler himself had been provoked into an adherence of them by threats. As far as he could judge, the present case did not involve a breach of privilege.
 Mr. Denman  said, that the noble marquis had stated that the question was a question of law, and that the complaint might be brought before the proper tribunal. But the noble marquis had not thought fit to inform his hon. friend of the manner in which be ought to proceed. In opposition to the noble lord, he would contend that the question was not one of law, but of privilege; and all the authorities cited in support of the governor of Lancaster Castle, were cited in disregard of the privileges of parliament—were cited to support the monstrous doctrine that members were to be prevented from receiving the complaints of those who might be suffering under solitary imprisonment. The noble marquis had said, that if the case of a prisoner were a  bonâ fide bona fide 661 662
 Mr. James  shortly replied. His view of the question was not, he said, at all altered; and he believed, on the authority of sir S. Romilly, that the practice complained of was illegal. The right hon. gentleman had argued that poison might
 663
 Mr. James  begged to call the attention of the House to a violation, as it seemed to him, of the privilege of its members. There was a gentleman confined in the gaol of Lancaster, who had terrified government by attending a reform meeting in 1819, whose letters, from prison, to him (Mr. James) had been broken open; and his letters to that gentleman had experienced a similar treatment; one letter, indeed, had been withheld altogether; and a copy only delivered in its place. Petitions forwarded to be laid before the House had shared the same fate with other communications; and, strange as the decisions of Parliament had been, it would hardly sanction so gross a proceeding. Upon the effect of the practice it could not be necessary to say a word. The most signal injustice—the most atrocious cruelty—might be committed in prisons, under the operation of such a system, and no means of complaint would be open to the sufferer. It might be urged, perhaps, that prisons were visited by magistrates, and that to those magistrates, if necessary, complaints might be addressed; but, let it be remembered that in one gaol at least (Ilchester), cruelty and torture had been inflicted upon prisoners, notwithstanding the visits of such appointed magistrates; and that gentlemen had risen in the House to eulogize the character of the manager of that institution, unconscious of the conduct of the man of whom they were speaking. As far as he had been able to learn, this inquisitorial practice of opening letters had originated in 'the wish of some Lancashire magistrates to pry into the secrets of the advocates of parliamentary reform. Inquiry being made into the legality of the course, those magistrates laid a case before counsel, and obtained an opinion, that the proceeding was lawful: they then, from having merely desired the gaoler to open certain letters, added a formal regulation to the rules of the prison, that all persons confined for peculiar offences should be subject to an unqualified inspection of their correspondence. Now, that such an order was contrary to English law, he had no doubt. The 9th of Anne, commonly called the Post-office act, declared that no person should presume to open a letter unless by
 645 646
 Sir R. Wilson  trusted, that parliament would not allow its privileges to be got rid of by the regulations of any set of magistrates. He was no great stickler for precedent; but he had found one peculiarly applicable to the matter before the House. In the first year of William and Mary, it was resolved by the House, that the breaking open a letter sent by, or directed to, one of its members, was a gross infringement of the privileges of parliament. After such a resolution, there could be no doubt of a breach of privilege having been committed in the present instance. When hon. members read the report of the commissioners on the state of Ilchester gaol, they would discover an additional reason for not allowing the letters of prisoners to be intercepted; for they would see, that there was no longer any great confidence to be placed either in gaolers or in visiting magistrates.
 Mr. Lushington  said, he had no objec-
 749
 Sir T. Lethbridge  did not, even now, believe that Mr. Hunt was in solitary confinement. He understood it to be that sort of confinement which rendered it impossible for a prisoner to hold any communication with any person whatever. If that was the meaning of the phrase, the situation of Mr. Hunt was very dif-
 752
 Mr. Bennet  said, the hon. baronet appeared to think that nothing was solitary confinement but four walls and the receiving of food through a wicket. That, however, was but a degree of solitary confinement: and if a man were told he must submit to insult, or remain within his cell, it was not too much to call that also a degree of solitary confinement. He ventured to say that, except at Ilchester, there was no prison in which a man confined for a political offence was compelled to associate with felons, or submit to solitary confinement. This, however, had been accomplished at Ilchester by the regulations of these magistrates, confirmed by the order of Mr. Justice Best. He wished for the production of these regulations, in order that it might be seen whether he was borne out in his opinion that they were the most arbitrary and
 753
 Mr. Bankes  said, that after the attack which the hon. member had made upon the Finance Committee of 1817—after his having said that the proceedings of that committee were an abominable outrage—the House would perhaps be surprised to hear that that hon. member himself was a party to the principles recommended in the report of that committee; that he and his friend near him (Mr. Bennet) were as much committed by the principle of that measure as either the noble marquis or himself. In order to prove what he said as he went on, he would read a resolution which had been passed in that House on the 31st of May, 1810. A debate had arisen out of a variety of resolutions proposed in a Finance Committee, of which he (Mr. B.) was chairman, in 1808. In that committee one set of resolutions had been proposed by Mr. Henry Martin, another by the late Mr. Perceval, a third by the right hon. member fur Waterford (sir J. Newport), and a fourth by himself (Mr. Bankes). Upon the merits of these resolutions various debates had taken place, after which a resolution was passed by the House (and he believed the hon. member for Shrewsbury was teller on that occasion), declaring that it was expedient to grant to the Crown full and ample means to reward its high and efficient servants, and that in any attempts to abolish or regulate such places, a strict regard should be had to the existing interests in those offices. The hon. member had said, that he was absent from the House when the 57th of the king was passed. This was matter of regret to the country, as no doubt had the hon. member been present, they would, by his able advice and assistance, have been prevented from running into the numerous errors into which it was now said they had fallen. But, in 1810 the case was different; for it happened, that on the very day, when the resolution to which he had just alluded was passed, the hon. member and lord viscount Milton were tellers upon a division which took place early in the evening. Now, if the hon. member was a party to the measure (as he must have been if he were present and did not dissent from it), what, he would ask, had since happened to justify him in altering his opinion? Having said so much, he now came to the bill itself. His
 772 l. 773 l. l. 774
 Mr. Bennet  said, the hon. gentleman had taken great pains to advocate the cause of his own child; and to demonstrate its vigour and its promising appearance; but, instead of showing that it was a strong and healthy child, he had only proved to the House, that it was one of the most ricketty bantlings that ever was produced, and should have been strangled at the moment of its birth. The hon. gentleman had said, that he (Mr. Bennet) had given his assent to the resolution of 1810; this statement was rather unfortunate, for he was not then in parliament. It was in 1812 that he came into parliament; and in 1813 the hon. gentleman produced his bill for getting rid, as it was said, of sinecure places. He had been told that he voted for those bills; and no doubt the assertion was correct. He would say further, that if any hon. gentleman were to produce a bill for their abolition, he should be again disposed to give his support to the measure. But the House might recollect, that in 1817, when that bill to which such frequent allusion had been made was passed, he did join in opposing it; because he could not give his assent to one particular part of the bill—namely, that which was now under discussion. He felt then, as he did now, that the bill was a great outrage; and if that was his feeling at the period of its being passed, he was disposed to consider it as a still greater outrage at the present time. Adverting to what had fallen from the hon. member, with regard to the recommendations of certain committees, he begged to express his opinion that if there was one thing more than another upon account of which that House had much to answer for to the country, it was the habit of granting committees for particular purposes; and, after such committees had applied themselves to the examination of the matters referred to them with the greatest assiduity and care, of treating the result of their labours with scorn and contempt—a habit of receiving reports, and of rejecting the
 775 l. l. l.; l. 776 l. l. l. l. l. 777 l. l., l., l., l.; l. l. l. l. 778 779
 The Marquis of Londonderry  should feel it necessary to detain the House but for a very short time; because, to a motion which had for its object the return of certain resolutions which parliament had agreed to, he could feel no objection. With respect to the speech of the hon. mover, and still more to the speech of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, he must be allowed to say a few words. And he could not help acknowledging on this occasion, the extreme gallantry with which the hon. gentleman who spoke last, had come forward in aid of the hon.
 780 781 782
 Sir R. Heron  said, he had, at the time of its being proposed, protested almost alone against this bill, and had declared that under the operation of it, the people would again call for sinecure places, as the least of two evils.
 Mr. Bernal  said, he could not compliment the hon. secretary on pursuing a straight forward path, in the course of his observations on the statements of his hon. friend. He had paid the utmost attention to what had fallen from his hon. friend, and certainly he did not bear him state the 17,000,000 l. l. l. l. l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the hon. and learned gentleman must have conceived the hon. member for Aberdeen in great danger to have been induced to enter into such a defence. His hon. friend, the secretary of the Admiralty, he was sure would view him with great compassion, when he found that he had so disabled him as to render necessary the aid of the hon. and learned gentleman who had undertaken his cause. The hon. secretary had, indeed, thrown great dismay and alarm into the enemy's camp—he had set all Brooks's in an uproar, and they had found it necessary to send down the hon. and learned gentleman, who had spent much gunpowder in the defence. Terror seemed to reign among them since the hon. secretary had overthrown the calculations of their champion. He did, not precisely see the cause for the alarm which the friends of the hon. gentleman entertained. They seemed to consider that he never could show his face again—that he would no more receive the freedom of boroughs or cities, and that he must surrender all his cider and golden snuffboxes, if he was not proved to be right in his late calculations, and placed on his legs, after the hon. secretary had thrown him on his back. But his friends did not seem to see that if they established his figures, it was at the expense of his argument. His reasoning and calculations were opposed to each other; and his friends must take the option of admitting that he could not conduct a common argument to any intelligible conclusion, or form a common calculation with any tolerable correctness. Let the gentlemen opposite, then, take which of the two characters they choose for their hon. friend—either that of a calculator or a logician; but they could not have both. To show that he was now accurate in his figures, his friends resorted to a speech made two or three years ago. His hon.
 799 l. l.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he had felt great alarm, at first, when he heard the difference of 671,000 l. l.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that on a subject so important to his hon friend, he wished to make a few observations. In the first place, as to what had passed on Friday last he was not in the House at the time when his hon. friend had made the statement. Having been absent at that period, he could not bear testimony, of his own knowledge to the fact; but it appeared evident to him that his hon. friend's accuracy was completely established. He was led to that opinion partly by the confidence which he felt in the accuracy of his hon. friend. He was further confirmed in the opinion by the testimony of his hon. friends who had just delivered their sentiments, as well as by the candid admission of the hon. secretary himself. What the hon. secretary now contended for was, that his hon. friend had gone wrong to the amount of 11,000,000 l. 795 l. l. l. 796 l. 797 propria marte, 798
 Mr. Croker  said, he had no doubt the hon. member was sincere in the statement which he made on a former night, for otherwise, he certainly would not have revived the discussion to-night. He would pledge himself again to prove to the satisfaction of the House, that the hon. gentleman had only got deeper into the mire. In all the statements he had made to-night he was either inaccurate in point of amount, or when accurate in the amount, he had mistaken the meaning which ought to be affixed to them. He would begin by clearing away one or two observations which related to himself. The hon. member seemed to imply that he (Mr. Croker) had taken the statement which he made in reply to him, from some private documents. Now, he could assure the hon. member, that he had no such private documents, and that his triumph, which the hon. member himself admitted, was not owing to any manuscript papers, but to the printed statements on the table of that House. The hon. member had also stated, that in the "Courier," his own speech was copied from "The Morning Chronicle," whereas his (Mr. C's.) speech appeared to be corrected by some mysterious and invisible hand. Who had been so good as to correct his speech, he did not know; but he could inform the hon. gentleman, that he had never corrected the publication of any speech of his own, except that on the inquiry into the conduct of the duke of York, and another on the Catholic question, and that he had never written one word for any newspaper for upwards of two yeah past. The hon. gentleman appeared to have deemed his (Mr. Croker's) speech of sufficient importance to make it
 789 l. l. l. l. l. 790 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 791 l. l. l. l. l. 792 l. l. l. 793
 Mr. Warre  said, he understood that Mr. Hunt had been placed on a level with the felons of the jail. No person was allowed to see him but in the common room; and Mr. Hunt had refused to go there. The only persons allowed admission to him, except in this room, were an attorney, a surgeon, and a physician. A distinction ought to be drawn between criminals and those who were confined for political offences. The gaol of Ilchester, he believed, stood upon the bank of a river; and there was a small aperture in the wall of Mr. Hunt's cell, a little elevated above the surface of the water. It was here that his son, by taking a boat on the river, was enabled to communicate with his father through the aperture; and thus only could he obtain that communication. He (Mr. W.) wished that this were otherwise; for it was always a misfortune to a government, if a person confined for a political offence should come from his prison hailed by the people as a martyr.
 Mr. Hume  believed, that no opposition would be made to the production of the papers for which he was about to move. Although the manner of granting hackney-coach and hawkers and pedlar's licenses might in itself be considered a matter of small importance, yet he was anxious to bring the subject before the House, because it would appear that government had exhibited a great neglect of economy in the collection of that part of the revenue. In 1797, the finance committee had recommended in its report, that the two offices for licensing hackney-coaches, and hawkers and pedlars, should be abolished; and that the duties of those offices should be thenceforth performed by the commissioners of stamps. Government did not, however, as the committee advised, transfer the duties of the office for licensing hackney-coaches, and that for licensing hawkers and pedlars, to the Stamp-office; but adopted the plan of uniting the two offices; in consequence of which, the country had been saddled with an additional expense. The number of inspectors had been augmented from 10 to 29, each of whom received a salary of 100 l. l. l. 748 l. l. l., l.,
 Mr. Hume  said, that, in his conscience, he believed the conduct of the Somerset-shire magistrates to have been unequalled. The other evening an hon. baronet had taken upon himself to say, that according to the information he had received, Mr. Hunt was not in solitary confinement. He now held in his hand an affidavit of a surgeon and of Mr. Hunt's son that no one was allowed to see him. A letter had been sent by the sheriff of the county to Mr. Hunt, stating that he believed the court had not intended to inflict solitary imprisonment upon him; and regretting that as the rules of the prison had been signed by the judges, he had not the power to relieve him. It had been said that the magistrates were not to blame. He wished any one who said this, would read the report of the commissioners appointed to examine the state of this gaol. The commissioners stated the dungeon in which Mr. Hunt was confined to be dark, damp, and unventilated, and that the water which he was compelled to drink
 751 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was extremely anxious to obtain the attention of the House for a very short time, as he was placed in rather a novel situation by what had passed on a former day. He had been accustomed to bring forward statements founded on the official documents presented to the House, and, as far as in him lay, to produce only such statements as those documents warranted. He was so unfortunate, when last the House was in a committee of supply, as to have had several of his statements contradicted by the hon. secretary for the Admiralty, and contradicted in a manner as decisive as could possibly be assumed. The hon. secretary had then stated, that he was reading from the estimates that which he (Mr. Hume) would prove he could not have read from the estimates; namely, statements of the amount of various charges. In the first instance, however, he called on gentlemen to mark the situation in which he and other members of that House were placed. He did not boast of being able to make fine speeches like the hon. secretary. It was not his practice to deal in sarcasm and ridicule. He knew his situation too well to pursue any such system. If he acted otherwise, he should receive that reproof from the House which such conduct deserved. He always came forward with such facts and statements as he was enabled to collect from documents laid before the House; and he expected that any person who attempted to answer him would do it in candour and fairness, and not as the hon. secretary had done. He was free to say, that if they did not meet each other on matters of fact, he should be no match for the hon. secretary; who had a power within the House, and a power without the House, which he (Mr. Hume) did not possess. The hon. secretary had an intimate connexion with ministers, and all the details of office were open to him: it was, therefore, unpardonable in him to err. But if he (Mr. Hume) made a mistake in any of the details, it was only what any member placed in his situation was liable to. Now, though he might not be able to distinguish wood from stone, or ships from barracks, he trusted that he had discernment enough to distinguish facts from fallacies [Hear.] That was all he claimed. He could not enter into that high-flown mode of speech in
 785 l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 786 l. 787 l. l.; l.; l. * l. l. * 788 l. l.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that from the view which he took of the case, he did not think the magistrates free from blame. If they had done their duty they would not have waited for any commission to detect and remedy such abuses. They should have attended, as was their duty, to the comforts and convenience of the prisoners, and have seen that they were properly supplied with provisions, and were not exposed to injury from cold and damp air. He had visited several gaols, and far from acquitting the visiting magistrates of this gaol, he concurred in every word that was said by the hon. member for Aberdeen. Seeing a right hon. secretary (Peel) in his place, be trusted that such steps would be taken on this subject as would let the magistrates know that the eye of the government was upon them; and that they could not with impunity be guilty of such negligence.
 Mr. Lennard  said, the magistrates had done nothing until the abuses in question had been brought under the notice of parliament. He fully agreed that great suspicion attached to their conduct. He could not vouch for the fact; but it had been published and not contradicted, that one of the magistrates, on occasion of the late inquiry, had been heard to say, "We must defend our gaoler." Yet this gaoler was a wretch discharged from the hulks, a defrauder of the miserable objects placed within his power, and altogether as infamous in character as he was brutal in conduct.
 Mr. Creevey  rose and said: * * 754 l. l. 755 l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. 756 l. l. l. l. 757 viz. 758 l. l. 759 l. l. 760 761 l. l. l. l. l. 762 l. videlicet, l. 763 l. l. 764 l. 765 l. l., 766 767 l. l. l. 768 l. l. l. l. l. l. 769 l. 770 l. 771
 Mr. Creevey  rose to reply, and said, that he could not be persuaded by the noble marquis that his motion was ill-timed. On the contrary, he felt it was a motion which the House ought to entertain. He had been accused of having
 783
 Mr. Dickinson  said, that the visiting magistrates had discharged both the surgeon and gaoler before the commission entered on the inquiry; and stated that all the recommendations of the commissioners, save that of building a new gaol, would be attended to.
 Mr. Dickinson  said, he had already stated that, when he saw the rules in question, he thought they pressed too severely upon Mr. Hunt, and had mentioned the circumstance to Mr. Justice Best, who, however, returned the rules without any alteration. He feared, that as they were now signed by the judges, they became a part of the law of the prison, and could not be altered.
 Mr. W. Smith  recollected that when the hon. member for Aberdeen first began that course of conduct which he had pursued with so much success, every possible attempt, short of absolute insult, was made, to deter him from proceeding. Sarcasm and imputation of every sort were directed against him. He was described to be a person who knew nothing about official matters, and was not to be trusted on a point of calculation. Before the end of the session, however, those very individuals who had treated the hon. member in this manner came to him cap in hand, and proffered him every assistance in furtherance of his designs. What was the cause of this change of sentiment with regard to the hon. member? It was, that the country had decided the question in his favour. In every quarter of the kingdom the services of the hon. member had been acknowledged to be most meritorious. The hon. member was, in his opinion, the encyclopædia of finance—[a laugh.]—Before the conclusion of the present session, the opposition which his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, experienced would die away, and those gentlemen who now endeavoured to throw obstacles in his way would be willing to aid his exertions.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, he must contend that the hon. member, in stating the estimate for 1817, had made it 5,300,000 l. l.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that his hon. friend's statements were not only supported by the recollection of gentlemen who heard him on Friday, but were confirmed by an appeal to the Parliamentary Debates of last June, where the same accounts and the same tables were given. It was there stated that 5,300,000 l. l. l.
 Sir R. Wilson  Presented a petition from 1,500 inhabitants of Greenock in behalf of Mr. Hunt. The petitioners considered the punishment which had been inflicted upon that gentleman as levelled at the man and not at the offence; and when they found that this sentence had been aggravated by the regulations of the magistrates of the county gaol in which he was confined, they could not forbear expressing to the House their opinion on the subject. Sir Charles Bampfylde, the late sheriff of Somersetshire, had considered the regulations in question as so harsh, with respect to Mr. Hunt, that he had suspended them: but on his going out of office they were renewed. It might be a very proper question to ask, why those regulations had been renewed, and why Mr. Hunt had been exposed to unnecessary severity? why he should be condemned to pass two years and a half of his life in a pestilential gaol, and supplied with water tainted with the most loathsome impurity? This severity was exercised too, after he had exposed the atrocities committed in that gaol, and had afforded government an opportunity of correcting them. He really thought that if ministers had either generosity or justice, they would grant Mr. Hunt an unconditional release; or, at least remove him to a prison in which his sufferings would be somewhat mitigated.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, he rose to submit a motion to that House, founded on a petition which he had the honour to present on the 8th instant from the corporation of London (see p. 159.) In the observations which he had to make preparatory to his motion, he should confine himself strictly to facts, and the merits of the case, as grounded solely upon them. The petition related to the occurrences which had taken place at Knightsbridge, and the attack on Mr. Sheriff Waithman, on the 26th of last August, and was founded on a report drawn up by a committee of the common council, who had taken evidence on the subject, and given it a patient and impartial investigation. The committee was not one selected from any particular class of persons; but was a committee of general purposes, and consisted of persons of different political opinions, some of whom
 802 803 804 805
 The Lord Advocate  rose for leave to bring in a bill founded on certain reports on the table of the House, as to the state of the Royal Burghs. A difference of opinion, he knew, prevailed as to the remedies most adequate to meet the abuses specified in these reports. A great object would be gained by securing the fullest publicity, and compelling the residence of the magistrates; and, he would therefore move, "That leave be given to bring in a bill, for regulating the mode of accounting for the common good, and revenues of the Royal Burghs of Scotland, and to prevent the non-residence of magistrates
 801
 Mr. Hobhouse  rose. He stated, that after the plain and sensible address which had been just delivered by the gallant colonel, he should be one of the last persons in the world, who would attempt to remove any part of the impression which he had made, if he were not imperatively called upon, by some things which had been said by him and the seconder of the motion; but he was more particularly called upon to make a few remarks, on account of the transaction having taken place in a part of the precincts of the city which he had the honour to represent. He would be unworthy of the place he held, if he were not ready to offer to the House such observations as the merits of the case required, in regard to what had fallen from the worthy Alderman, and the gallant Colonel. It did appear to him, that on no occasion did the House shew any reluctance, or feel any difficulty, in entering upon inquiry, when the demand came from his majesty's ministers. In the instance of Manchester, the government, on anonymous evidence, got a select committee appointed, and on that anonymous evidence, enacted laws which abridged the liberties of the subject. On repeated occasions, when the public functionaries demanded inquiry on any evidence whatever, the demand had never been resisted, and surely they-could not, as members
 809 810 811 ex-offcio, posse comitatus, posse comitatus, 812 813 814 esprit du corps.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that in the vote which he intended to give that night, and it the view which he intended to take of the
 815 816 817 to return 818 819 820 821 822
 Mr. Bennet  rose, he said, principally with a view to defend the conduct of his hon. friend, Mr. Sheriff Waithman, from the aspersions so unjustly cast upon it by the hon. gentleman who had just sat
 831 832 833 834
 Mr. Hobhouse  explained. He considered that, through the lord mayor and common councilmen of London the people were the petitioners; and that, in the person of their high sheriff, the people had been insulted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. gentleman who brought this subject before the House had certainly done so with much candor and temper. He was sorry, however, that he could not support his motion. It would give much satisfaction to ministers, if they could, consistently with the real interest of the country, agree to a greater remission of taxes; but, after what parliament had already done on this point, he certainly thought it necessary to withstand any farther reduction. The hon. member had spoken of the sinking fund in very candid terms, and had stated, that the subtraction of 300,000 l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. 845 l. s. s. l. l. l. l. s. s. gabelle 846
 Lord Normanby  said, that on the immediate subject under discussion, he would not offer any remarks, as they were rendered superfluous by the able speeches of the hon. mover and seconder. With respect to the allusion that had been made to sir R. Walpole, he would make one observation. As far as his recollection served him, sir Robert moved the renewal of the salt-tax on grounds very different from those which had been stated. He moved for its renewal as a relief to the landed interest of the country, in lieu of a shilling a pound, which was taken from the land-tax duty. The land-tax weighed so heavily on the country gentlemen, that they began to neglect those ancient hospitalities which sir Robert thought it was necessary, for the honour of the national character, to keep up, and therefore he sanctioned this boon. But sir W. Wyndham, Mr. Pulteney, and all those who opposed the bill, argued that its operation would be severely felt by all classes. It was a question mooted when sir Robert was in the plenitude of his power, and he was backed by the whole landed interest of the country; and yet, in a house, consisting of 400 members, he carried his point by a majority of about 30. This proved how the measure was received at, that period. They had heard much, and too truly, of the increasing influence of the Crown in that House. The fact was sufficiently proved by the manner, in which obnoxious measures were carried,
 847 nominis umbra
 Mr. Alderman Wood  rose to reply. He was not a little surprised to find the hon. baronet make so unqualified an attack upon the corporation of London; nor was he less surprised to find his majesty's ministers treat the corporation with so much disregard. It was not long since those ministers had dined with the corporation; and on one occasion a gallant general had been entertained by them at an expense of not less than 25,000 l.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that after the discussion which had so long
 838 s. 839 s. d. s. s. s. s. s. s. 840 l. l., 841 l. l. l. l., l. l. l, l. 842 d. d. 843 gabelle
 Sir F. Ommaney  said, he would vote for the repeal of all taxes that peculiarly affected the poor. The ground on which the motion was resisted was, that it would diminish the surplus set apart for a sinking fund to support public credit. He did not see the matter in that light. Reductions might be made in the expenditure, to compensate for the repeal of the salt-tax.
 Sir J. Sebright  would not only vote for the repeal of the salt tax, but of other taxes. The repeal of taxes would not necessarily reduce the surplus for a sinking fund until all the means of economy in the public expenditure were exhausted. Retrenchment, admitting of a reduction of taxes, should immediately be adopted; for if ministers did not begin retrenchments now, they must come to them at last. The agriculture of the country was suffering from excessive taxation, and the whole community was interested in seeing that agriculture was not crushed. The public revenue could not be kept up at its present rate, it the landed interest declined. He had inquired much into the present state of the country, and it was his opinion, that the average land of England, under the pressure of existing taxes, would soon not only yield no rent, but not be left in cultivation. In this state of things, when the demand for diminished taxation was so general and well-founded, ministers seemed to think that the repeal of one shilling on the bushel of malt, was sufficient to satisfy it. He considered this trifling reduction as an insult, when mentioned under the title of relief. He had heard much of the distress of agriculture out of parliament,
 852
 Mr. Egerton  thought the tax so unequal in its operations, and so oppressive to the lower orders, that he would vote for the motion.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he would not disguise, that he felt extreme anxiety for the arrival of that moment, when the state of public credit would permit ministers, or point it out to them as their duty, to remove a considerable part of the existing taxes. The hon. member for Nottingham had reminded them of the popularity they might acquire, by the affirmative of this question. He hoped he was duly sensible of the value of I popularity, but he should be unworthy of the situation which he held in his majesty's
 854 855 l., l., l. pro tanto
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that his majesty's ministers were not, he feared, sufficiently apprized of the existing distress. For his own part, the speech from the throne had raised a suspicion in his mind, that it was not intended to grant that relief, without which he trembled fur the
 856 857
 Mr. J. Marlin  said, be should support the motion on the principle of economy, believing that it would not interfere with his firmer vote.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  observed, that it was the duty of the House to adhere to a consistent policy, and not lightly to change its resolutions. The proposition now made, called upon them, in the face of one of the greatest financial operations ever attempted, to pass a vote that might defeat or prevent its effect. Many future opportunities would present themselves of effecting retrenchment wherever it was practicable: but they ought not, whilst a great measure of finance was yet in progress, to cut off part of that income
 853
 Mr. Secretary Peel  protested against the doctrine of the hon. and learned gentleman. He implored the House to reflect on the situation in which it had so honourably placed itself by the resolution of 1819, and instead of rescinding that vote, he trusted they would re-affirm it by their decision of that night. Did any man doubt the construction that was put by the country on their vote a few nights back? Were not the holders of five per cent stock at that moment engaged in a negociation beneficial to the public interest, on the guarantee which that vote gave to the public creditor? He was, on grounds wholly distinct from any considerations of revenue, opposed to any pledge from parliament, as to any gradual repeal of taxation. Such a pledge always operated prejudicially to the in-
 860
 Mr. Moberly  rose, to correct the statement of the right hon. secretary, who had said, there was no possibility of retrenchment out of a revenue of 17 millions. Now, the saving was not to take place out of 17 millions, but out of 25 millions. The right hon. gentleman had asked, would they reduce the army? Would they reduce the navy? and so on. He would say, no! But out of the expense of collecting the revenue, there might be a saving, which would more than cover the whole of this tax.
 Colonel Lygon  said, that he had witnessed the transactions of the 26th of August, and had attended to the complaint made in the petition. He would, therefore, in the few words he had to offer, confine himself entirely to the statements there made. Knowing that such a procession was to pass by the barracks on that day, he had, on dismissing the parade in the morning, given orders that the gates should be closed, and that the men should keep within the barracks, and not
 807 808
 Lord A. Hamilton  expressed his astonishment, that after the labours of three committees, and the full detail of multiplied abuses which their reports exhibited, a lord advocate should, in bringing such a subject before parliament, limit himself merely to a simple motion for leave to bring in a bill. He had expected, that when the learned lord refused to allow him to originate a remedial measure, it was his intention to take a full view of the-question, and put the House in possession of flint view. What was his surprise to find him, after all that expectation, merely making, a motion of course? Was it to be endured, after so much investigation and labour, that such a bill should be proposed for a remedy to grievances so numerous and complicated? He must be allowed to tell the learned lord, that in proposing a measure so inadequate, he had both neglected his own duty, and prevented other members from discharging theirs. He was extremely sorry that the whole system of abuse that pervaded the burghs of Scotland was so little understood in that House. Sure he was, that if they existed in England, and if English members had themselves such a case as he felt he could make out for Scotland, these intolerable grievances would be at once redressed.
 Mr. Davenport  entirely agreed in every proposition which fell from the hon. mover, who had done himself great credit in bringing the question before the House so clearly and explicitly. He had ensured the respect of the country gentlemen, the thanks of the farmer, and the ardent blessings of the poor by his exertions. This tax was of so oppressive a nature, that it ought to be at least abated, if not altogether repealed. At the lowest calculation, it took from the poor man 4 d. s. d. s. s. l. 844
 Mr. Littleton  thought the tax grievous and impolitic; but considering the resolution) which the House had lately adopted, to support public credit by a sinking fund of 5,000,000 l.,
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that he differed entirely with the hon. and learned gentleman, who had declared that the conduct of Mr. Sheriff Waithman before the coroner had nothing to do with the present case. Now, he thought quite the reverse, and that nothing could be more proper than to look at the sheriff's conduct upon the inquest, which was certainly most improper, if not illegal. Was it proper that the same person, who had just before been acting the part of a public prosecutor of the life guards, should voluntarily tender his interposition to the same life guards, as a mediator to keep the peace between them and their aggressors? He would not go so far as to say with the hon. alderman, that one of the sheriffs of London was only half of the sheriff of Middlesex, but he would say, that Mr. Sheriff Waithman was exactly the half that should not have been at Knightsbridge on this particular occasion. The hon. gentleman then, with reference to Mr. Waithman's conduct at the inquest, quoted Blackstone's observation, that it had been determined by the great charter, that the sheriff should not hold pleas of the Crown, for it was he who summoned the jury, and who had to execute the law. If the law, then, prevented such an officer, on account of his functions, from being a judge,  a fortiori, 830 posse comitatus. ex parte
 Mr. Gipps  said, he was not now actuated by any desire of popularity, but he conceived that the tax ought to be repealed, and that the deficiency might be easily supplied by reductions in the expenditure.
 Mr. Bright  was of opinion, that the only chance of immediate relief consisted in the diminution of the vast pressure of taxation. He agreed, that a sinking fund ought to be kept up, but thought the chancellor of the exchequer had overrated the amount that would be necessary. When he saw a sinking fund to a much smaller amount, sufficient to support the public credit to such a degree, as to enable the chancellor of the exchequer to make an unparalleled change in the five per cents without diminishing the confidence reposed in government, be could not help thinking that the increase was unnecessary. They might, he thought, strike out of the estimates many sinecures, many useless offices, many boards, and lords of the admiralty. He would call upon the gentlemen of England to perform this duty to the public; and, with respect to the repeal of taxes, there was none, that, in his opinion, would be likely to afford more general relief than that which formed the subject of consideration.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if any man had heard all the speeches of the members who had that night addressed the House, with the exception of the concluding sentence of some of them and the whole of the speech of the noble marquis, that auditor must have concluded, that there never was a more unanimous and harmonious assembly, or one in which there was less likely to be a difference in
 858 seriatim, 859
 Mr. Handley  opposed the motion. Notwithstanding the wild speculations which had been propagated, he could not think taxation the cause of, nor parliamentary reform the remedy for, the distress which existed. He was thoroughly convinced, that the distress was almost solely and exclusively to be ascribed to excessive production.
 General Gascoyne  observed, that at the period when this tax was increased to its present amount, Mr. Pitt had said, that it was not intended to be permanent. It was now contended, that it was more desirable at present to repeal the malt-tax, than to afford any relief upon this. The chancellor of the exchequer took great credit to himself, for the repeal of the annual malt duty, and seemed to consider it as sufficient to satisfy the demands of the country. The tax on salt, however, appeared to him a fitter subject for reduction; and as the bill for the repeal of the malt duty was not yet introduced, be would recommend a substitution of the one for the other. He was much surprised at the speech of the learned civilian on the ministerial bench. On several
 851
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, allowed, that the tax was generally oppressive. Could they not, then, endeavour to save as much out of the expenditure, as would enable them to abolish it at once? Gentlemen, while they admitted the hardships of the tax, had proposed delay in the repeal of it; but they would do well to remember the adage—"While the grass grows the steed starves." This tax pressed heavily upon all classes of the country; and, therefore, the country would be substantially relieved by its repeal, which would not be the case with the trifling reduction of one shilling a bushel upon malt.
 Mr. Curwen  said, the chancellor of the exchequer had misunderstood his hon. friend, who had said that 20 s. 849 l. l. s, s. l. l.
 Mr. J. Smith  concurred, that the tax on salt would be repealed with much greater benefit to the country than the tax on malt. While he agreed that every practicable reduction of taxation was most desirable, he felt also that the interests of the agriculturist, as well as the general interests of the country, were involved in the maintenance of the public credit. Having stated this opinion, he hoped he should not appear to be guilty of inconsistency, when he declared that be most earnestly desired to see this odious and mischievous tax abolished. The great nourishment of the poor was derived principally from salted provisions. Salt, cheese, and bacon, formed the chief sustenance both of the agricultural and manufacturing classes; and he contended, therefore, that the tax pressed more heavily upon the poor than upon the higher classes. He was aware that the opinions of the majorities in that House were, for the most part, opposed to the opinions of the people, and that ministers appeared to disregard and despise the general opinions and feelings of the people. He could not refrain from observing, however, that no measure could so effectually give popularity to the government, and restore to them the good-will of the people, as the total repeal of this odious tax.
 Mr. Butterworth  thought it was not until they were obliged to protect their own lives, that the soldiers had interfered; and that Mr. Waithman, as sheriff of the county, had acted in a manner highly criminal in not interposing his authority at Cumberland-gate on the day of the queen's funeral. On the occasion of the queen's funeral, Mr. Waithman's brother sheriff wrote to him, to ask whether it was his intention to attend it on the day appointed. Mr. Waithman returned no definitive answer to Mr. Sheriff Williams, until a period so immediately preceding the, funeral, that he knew his letter could not reach the sheriff
 836
 Mr. Hume  said, that the hon. member for Dover protested against inquiry, and yet commenced his speech by a general attack upon almost every body concerned in this transaction, in the spirit (perhaps the House would be told) of Christian charity. But his appealing in the solemn manner he had just done, was an insult to religion. The sacred cause of religion vas profaned by men, who with that word in their mouths, had any thing but religion in their hearts. He rose to express his abhorrence of such conduct. With regard to the panegyrics which the hon. gentleman had lavished on the soldiers, it was the opinion of those who had witnessed the transactions of the day, that what took place at Knightsbridge was not to be connected with any thing that had occurred at Hammersmith. The time would shortly come, when the occurrences at Cumberland-gate must be made matter of discussion. But it was most unfair to mix up two transactions in the way the hon. gentleman had done; one of them had nothing to do with the other, and it was, on the hon. gentleman's part, only an attempt to throw dirt into the eyes of the House. As to the letter which the hon. gentleman had read, whether it was or was not a true letter, of this he could assure the House, that the worthy alderman did, in fact, attend the queen's funeral, but only as a private man. He appealed to the House whether, if a great corporation came forward to lay their complaints before parliament, it was not just and expedient that inquiry should take place. The appeal which had been made by the hon. member for Dover possessed any thing but justice in its principle.
 Dr. Phillimore  concurred with the hon. mover in his general objections to the tax. The tax was objectionable in principle, because it pressed upon the lower orders of the community, and because it pressed upon the landlord, by reducing his rent, and increasing his general expenditure. In spite of the drawbacks, it also pressed most severely upon the fisheries. For these reasons, in all the discussions which had taken place on this subject, he had felt that nothing short of
 848 l.
 Mr. Leycester  described the tax as a grievous burthen on the country at large. The relief granted to the agricultural interest by the reduction of the malt duty was, he contended, quite disproportionate to the distress under which it laboured. He was no friend to such temporary expedients; and be therefore called on the country gentlemen to demand such effectual measures as would rescue the land-owner, the yeoman, and the farmer, from impending ruin.
 Mr. Denman  understood that the right hon. gentleman had founded all his opinions upon the evidence.
 Mr. Denman  contrasted the conciliatory tone adopted by the right hon. secretary with that of a worthy alderman who had spoken previously in the debate. Astonished, indeed, he was at the conduct of the worthy alderman, who had attacked, in the most unprecedented way, the corporate body to which he himself belonged. Surely if the worthy alderman did not approve of the course which the committee of his corporation were pursuing in this investigation, he ought to have attended and interposed during their proceedings. But that he, a member of their body, should have abstained from interfering when he could have interfered with effect, and afterwards come down to that House to. deride the proceedings of his own corporation, to throw dirt, as it were upon the report of those who sent him here; was a good reason why his constituents should not give him another opportunity to impeach their character, and was to merit something like indignation for such a line of conduct. With reference to what had fallen from the right hon. secretary, he could not help observing, as a singular fact, that although the right hon. gentleman professed to found his observations upon the evidence taken in London, he nevertheless constantly referred to other evidence which appeared to have been taken before lord Bathurst; and alluded to the rushing out of a few soldiers from their barracks, in consequence of a rumour of a supposed outrage upon some of their body outside. Was that fact to be found in the evidence
 823 prima facie 824 825 826 827 828
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought the principle of the motion good, but that the motion itself was far from wise at that moment.
 Sir C. Burrell  thought, that, considering all the elements of the question, the repeal of the tax on salt would operate more relief to the agriculturists, and to the country generally, than the reduction of the duty on malt.
 Mr. W. Lamb  said, that he could not support the motion, because, when he saw the limited means of investigation which the House possessed, he was always exceedingly reluctant to go into parliamentary inquiry. The hon. member for Westminster had said, that the House was always ready to go into the inquiries proposed by ministers, but to reject such as were suggested from the other side. Now, it was unfair that such a statement should be made without acknowledging the fact, that the inquiries proposed by the government were generally of an entirely different nature from those which were recommended from other quarters, and more suited to the means of investigation which the House possessed. It had lately been a practice to deprecate any assertion that there were evil-minded persons in the country who aimed to disturb its peace. On the first day of the session, the hon. member who so ably seconded the address, was rebuked for making some observations of that nature. Now, he would ask, what were the motives of the persons who got up the funeral of the men which led to the disturbances at Knightsbridge, and who paid the expenses and took the management of the procession? What possible motive could they have had, but that of adding to the excitation of the people, and taking advantage of the acts which they night thereby induce them to commit. There was one word which he was sorry to hear very often abused in that House. Upon the present occasion the hon. member for Westminster and the learned member for Nottingham had spoken of he persons engaged in these proceedings
 835
 Mr. Peel  explained. The hon. and
 829
 Mr. Peel.  All my arguments, not my opinions.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  felt persuaded that the country gentlemen would discharge their duty, unawed by any intimidation or threats from one side of the House, and uninfluenced by any seductions of power or authority from the other. If, on a former night, he had given by his vote a distinct pledge to sustain, under all circumstances, a sinking fund to the precise amount of five millions, he most certainly would not vote for the repeal of the tax on salt; but, feeling that he made no such pledge—considering that his vote only went to the extent of viewing a sinking fund as a benefit, he should support the motion. He did not believe that the sinking fund would be endangered, if the House should resolve to repeal the tax upon salt; for ministers could effect further retrenchments to meet their diminished income.
 Sir I. Coffin  said, it was not just that the poor man in this country should pay 18 s. s.
 Sir W. Curtis  rose to second the motion. He also was anxious that the petition should be considered by a committee, but for reasons different from those urged by his hon. colleague. In the first place, he would say, that the sheriff had no authority to act on the occasion in question, and it would have been much better for him to have remained at home. [Hear.] The office of sheriff of Middlesex, was vested in the two gentlemen who were chosen sheriffs of London, and the authority could not be exercised by one alone. Mr. Sheriff Waithman himself, was not therefore, justified in acting by himself. He was anxious that a committee should investigate this question; but it was because he wished to let the world know the real character of this great common council, who were always meddling with matters with which they had nothing to do, and which were far above their wisdom and energy. [Hear.] It was from such
 806
 Mr. Hobhouse  said he held in his hand a petition, signed by upwards of 5,000 persons living in the town of Blackburn, in Lancashire, complaining of the hard treatment to which Mr. Hunt was subjected in Ilchester gaol, and praying that the House would address the king to commute the sentence of Mr. Hunt, or at least to rescind the resolution adopted at the last quarter sessions for the county of Somerset, in consequence of which Mr. Hunt was now so severely treated. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to express his disapprobation of the manner in which Mr. Hunt had been treated during his confinement, and particularly censured the resolution which had been adopted at the last quarter sessions for Somersetshire for the regulation of Ilchester gaol. He eulogized the conduct of the commissioners, and dwelt at length upon a variety of details, which have already appeared before the public. He called upon the House to look at the total absence of control in the prison. The gaoler was not checked by the surgeon, the surgeon by the coroner, nor the coroner by the magistrates. Let them remember the abuses and cruelties proved: Hillyer loaded with irons, and beheld, so loaded, without interference by the magistrates; and Mary Cuer, with her new-born child, exposed to cold and hunger. Let members advert to the badness of the bread, and to the impurity of the water—to the absence of air and sunshine, and to the presence of instruments of torture unparalleled but by those brought over in the Spanish armada. Mr. Hunt's imprisonment was an evil as regarded himself, but it had been the source of incalculable advantage to the commu-
 863
 Mr. Bernal  said, that by the 31st Geo. 3rd, the county magistrates had power, in cases of necessity, to revise and alter rules laid down by judges of session. Such power might be beneficially exercised in the present case.
 Mr. Bankes  moved for accounts of the capital stock redeemed, of the public debt, with a calculation of the effect that would be produced on the principal of the debt in the course of
 864 l.
 Mr. Grenfell  wished to ask the chancellor of the exchequer, whether it was his intention that the present amount of five millions only should be applied to the liquidation of the debt, or whether that sum was to be allowed to accumulate at compound interest for the same object.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it was his intention, as soon as the financial arrangements for the present year were concluded, and the budget opened, to move for the appointment of a committee of enquiry into the means of adopting a plan for the simplification of the public accounts. He should then propose that the sinking fund should be made a particular object of attention. It would be for the House then to consider whether the accumulation by compound interest should be applied to the extinction of the debt, or whether it should be left to the disposal of parliament. The question was one which would require great attention, because, if they decided upon the latter course, it would be necessary to repeal several acts which now regulated the application of the fund.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  denied that he had, in point of filet, said that there would be any farther repeals of taxes. What he stated was, that the House having pledged itself in 1819, to establish a sinking fund of five millions, and that resolution being now accomplished, it would be left open to parliament in what manner it should make use of any accruing surplus therefrom. He distinctly stated the future reduction of taxes to be dependent on the will of parliament, when it should have these farther sums at its disposal. He left it open to parliament in this manner; and at the same time he observed, that the distress of the country appeared to him to call for the relief. But if the agricultural interest should revive before the period arrived, the House was not pledged to any parti-
 865
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that what he spoke of was, any surplus that might accrue beyond the five millions to be applied to the liquidation of the debt.
 Mr. Maberly  said, he had understood from the noble marquis, that an annual reduction of taxes was to ensue. It would be much better for the noble lord not to come down to the House to make statements which were to be contradicted upon another occasion. The finance accounts which he had presented to the House, were also fallacious; or else the annual accounts were fallacious. They were, in fact, both fallacious; some in one thing and some in another. He had been to the Treasury to enquire into some of the contradictions, and to endeavour to get them explained. He saw there a very intelligent gentleman, Mr. Hill; but he was quite unable to reconcile the accounts. As it was his intention to submit a motion to the House upon this subject, at some future period, he should say no more at present.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  repeated,
 866
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  remarked upon what had fallen from an hon. member relative to his applying at the Treasury for information respecting the public accounts. The hon. gentleman had said, that he learnt there that those accounts were erroneous. He would venture to say that, the hon. gentleman had mistaken what he had heard. If the gentleman to whom he had applied, Mr. Hill (than whom a more intelligent and valuable servant of the public did not exist), were at the bar of that House, he would reconcile all the public accounts of which the hon. member complained.
 Mr. Bernal  contended, that the number of lay lords was greater than the public service required. If it should so happen that, on some rare and particular occasions, assistance might be wanted, could not that assistance be received from some other public quarter; for instance, from the lords of the Treasury? When the hon. baronet had dwelt so much on the necessity of having civilians at the board, he ought to have recollected that the board had their law agent; that cases were regularly laid before counsel, on every question of perplexity or of interest. He would give his hearty support to the amendment, because he thought that after the navy had been reduced to 119 vessels (not one-tenth of the naval force kept up during the war), it was altogether monstrous to keep up the same number of lords of the admiralty. He saw in the list of reduction a sum of 2,000 l.,
 Admiral Satheron  was convinced, by the arguments of his gallant friend, that six lords of the admiralty were necessary.
 Mr. Marryat  did nut think that six lords could be necessary in peace. To convince the public that it was the disposition of the House to make a reasonable abatement of the public burthens, it would be of' the greatest service to make the reduction now proposed.
 Sir J. Sebright  rose to give his support to the motion, and would take that opportunity of declaring his opinion, that the proposed reductions were far from corresponding with the exigencies of the crisis, and so he should continue to think, whilst there remained one useless office in existence. At the same time, he was most anxious for the preservation of public credit, and should be sorry to find the regular sinking fund so nicely balanced and adjusted as not to produce any surplus over the 5,000,000 l. 873
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he should give his brief but hearty support to this as well as to every other practicable reduction.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that as he felt that the circumstances of the time called for rigid economy, and as several gentlemen whom he highly respected, had spoken in favour of the motion, he owed it to them to state why he was unable to agree to the proposition. The hon. baronet had, with the same intelligence as on a former occasion, pressed the proposition in the House on two grounds; first, on that of economy; and, secondly, on the necessity of reducing the influence of the Crown in that House. Now, as to the first point, that of economy, he did not dispute that the circumstance of the reduction proposed being small in its amount did not make it as a matter of principle of less importance. In fact, they had to balance the 2000 l. 877 l. 878 879 880
 Sir J. Sebright  said, there was nothing further from his intention than to impute a sordid feeling to the noble lord, who was the last man in the country to whom he should attribute such a motive. He had imputed nothing to the present administration as distinguished from any other; but he had observed, that every administration had a desire to keep patronage in its hands. If a question were brought directly before the House, whether the present ministry should be removed or no, there was no man who would more decidedly vote for their continuance than himself.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he had understood the hon. baronet to speak of the holders of office as giving their votes under influence.
 Sir J. Sebright  said, the holders of inferior and sinecure places were naturally under influence, though he did not mean to apply his remarks to any individual.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he could not accept any compliment at the expense of those with whom he acted [hear!].
 Mr. Robinson  was surprised at the course of the hon. member's argument, not having forgotten what took place last year, when this vote was proposed to the committee. On that occasion, the vote required was, in amount, 7,000 l. l. l., 886 887 l. l. l. l. l. 888 l. quietus,
 Mr. Bennet  was ready to admit that his right hon. friend must feel it a painful duty to suit the salaries of those whom the public employed to the circumstances of the times. But, in doing this duty, his right hon. friend would, no doubt, re-
 889 s. s. l. l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  defended the plan of the chancellor of the exchequer for reducing salaries. When it was before the House, it would be found that no office had been spared, but that all had been revised, and most put on a new scale. It did not proceed on the principle of taking 25 per cent, 10 per cent, or any other per centage on salaries; but, after a laborious investigation of each particular office, it fixed its emoluments at a proper scale.
 Mr. Ellison  thought it the duty of every member to redeem the pledge he had given of reducing the expenditure by the abolition of offices comparatively useless.
 Mr. Ellice  rose, for the purpose of remarking on the difficulty of the situation in which the right hon. gentleman and others were placed in the present state of the law. He did not think, by any means, that the salary of the right hon. gentleman was too high. For his own part, he would not accept it with the responsibility attached to it. His only object in rising was, to draw the attention of the House to that particular subject. He thought such an alteration should be made in this oppressive law, as would remove from gentlemen in office some of the difficulties they were now burthened with.
 Mr. Ellice  thought the subject should be discussed in all its branches, and hoped that an ample debate would take place upon it at some future opportunity.
 Mr. Littleton  supported the amendment, because he wished to support the plan of the noble marquis—a plan of economy and retrenchment. If the votes of members did not coincide with that plan, it would be wholly nugatory. On former occasions, he had voted for the continuance of the lay lords of the Admiralty, but the altered situation of the country warranted an alteration of his vote. A strong impression prevailed in the public mind, that in the higher civil departments there was still ample room for retrenchment.
 Mr. Tierney  expressed his astonishment at hearing the noble lord speak of a surplus of five millions, when in fact there was no such thing. He could understand the present manœuvre of the noble lord very well; it was to destroy the old machinery of the sinking fund, for the purpose of getting it into his own hands. He contended, that the produce of the sinking fund must be laid out at compound interest as the law now stood.
 Mr. Tierney  contended, that the interest of the sinking fund could not be at the disposal of parliament, as the noble marquis seemed to consider it. Without the repeal of several acts, parliament could not touch the compound interest, growing; out of the five millions. When the noble lord said that such accumulations were at the disposition of parliament, he announced that the sinking fund, upon the principle of accumulating by compound interest, was at an end.
 Mr. Tierney  expressed his conviction, that the noble marquis hail, in stating his general plan to the House, held it out, as the intention of ministers, to reduce a million of taxes next year, and to proceed with reductions in the years following. But now they found that all the relief to be afforded was, the reduction of one shilling a quarter upon malt.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  contended, that the influence of the Crown never was lower than at present; and if he was called upon to vote on the motion before the House, on that principle, he should vote against it. But if his vote was to be a declaration of his opinion, whether the business of the Admiralty could be done with a less
 881
 Sir John Osborn  said, that as the estimates for wear and tear had been disposed of, it now became his duty to submit the votes for the ordinary and extraordinary service of the navy for the year 1822. He was glad that this duty devolved upon him. It a period when the recurrence of peace gabled him to submit to parliament reduced estimates for the naval service of the country, and to evince the disposition of government to reduce, in a considerable degree, the public expenditure. The
 867 l.; l. l. l. l.; l.; l., l. l. l.; l. l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  condemned the incorrectness of the public accounts. There were scarcely two Treasury accounts laid on that table which agreed with each other; and this he pledged himself to prove when they went into the committee upon the subject. He thought ministers ought to effect the simplification of the accounts themselves, without calling upon the House to do it.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was quite clear, from the documents which he held in his hand, that the reductions which were produced by ministers, were no reductions whatsoever, with reference to the principle which was contended for in the last session. The House would, perhaps, observe, in the first part of the estimates, a reduction of 7,620 l.; l. l. l. l. l. 884 l. l. l. 885 l. l., l. s. l. s. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  concurred in the motion for adjournment. The retrenchment proposed by ministers could, he said, neither relieve the pressing distress, nor satisfy the just demands of the country. The right hon. gentleman had spoken of the wounds inflicted on his feelings, in communicating to the gentlemen in his office the unwelcome intelligence that their services would no longer be required, or that their emoluments were to be reduced: but, had he no feeling for the people who paid those salaries, and suffered more severe privations? He did not yield to the right hon. gentleman in his sympathy for reduced public servants with diminished incomes; but his sympathy was not exclusively confined to the government offices. He felt for the ruined farmer, the distressed manufacturer, the people burthened with taxes, the landlord without rent, and the labourer without wages. With such a picture of the public misery before them, ministers were guilty of a dereliction of their public duty if they did not increase the means of relief by all the retrenchments in their power. They ought to come down to the House with a proposition to reduce the civil list 25 per cent. He had heard with regret in another place, a recommendation to country gentlemen to reduce their rents as the only remedy to the existing evil. But, when they reduced their rents, were placemen to retain their salaries at their full amount, and was the exorbitant civil list to be kept up? The honour of the Crown did not require the costly extravagance with which it was supported; and from all that he had heard of the heart of his majesty, he was convinced that he would be the first to propose retrenchment—that he would be the first to order a reduction in the trappings of the royal establishments—that he would be the first to propose a curtailment of useless splendor, if truth were allowed to reach his ear, and if he could see or learn the extent of his people's sufferings. He, therefore, hoped that the noble marquis would come down on Tuesday with a proposition to reduce the civil list, at least 25 per cent, and all government offices in proportion.
 Mr. P. Moore  did not know Mr. Hunt; but he knew that he was a British subject, that he had been barbarously treated, and was entitled to the protection of that House. He hoped every man would feel that Mr. Hunt's case might one day be his own, and take it up accordingly. If ministers did not interfere in behalf of those who were thus oppressed, they would not do their duty.
 Mr. Dickinson  assured the House that there was every disposition on the part of the magistrates of Somersetshire to carry amelioration as to gaol discipline into effect.
 Mr. W. Smith  knew nothing at all of Mr. Hunt; but believed that, as far as Ilchester gaol was concerned, he had been the means of producing very considerable good. The House had been told that prisoners aggrieved had the power of complaining to visiting magistrates; but the report of the commissioners proved such power to be insufficient; for it declared, that the regulations of the visiting magistrates themselves had been of a contradictory and irritating tendency.
 Sir C. Cole  felt the strongest attachment to the service to which he had belonged from his youth; but the duty he owed to his constituents compelled him to control any feeling of partiality, and to vote cordially for the motion [Hear.] He could not see any sufficient reason for keeping up the present number of lords of the admiralty.
 Sir G. Cockburn  observed, that every year's experience at the admiralty served only to convince him of the proper and due formation of that board. He should state the reasons that led him to think six members essential to its constitution. Some hon. gentlemen overlooked this propriety, from not being aware that it was a military board—that it was sometimes obliged to divide, and to act at a distance. Three of these commissioners might, under special circumstances, be detached to institute proceedings on board the fleet, or in one of the out ports. He said three for two would clearly not answer the purpose, inasmuch as a difference of opinion might arise, and there would be no immediate power of arbitration. As to the uselessness of the lay lords, as they were called, of the admiralty, he could assure the committee, that he had recently visited our dock-yards, and had received the most valuable assistance from one of them. Naval officers were not generally competent to the examination of those detailed accounts that came before the board; and it should not be forgotten, that the board were invested with a very extensive jurisdiction. If the junior lords were introduced merely for the purposes of political education, be should feel ashamed to offer a word in their defence: but the duties he had referred to evidently required to be fulfilled with diligence and authority. He should consider himself negligent of his public duty, if he did not express his firm persuasion, that the officers in question were essential to the due performance of the public service. Overlooking the occasional necessity of detaching part of the board to a distance, there was in London alone, ample employment for six commissioners. If they were to have but one lay lord, whose business it would be to be always on the spot, they would find no qualified individual who would undertake it. He ought to be, if not a civil lawyer, at least a person of general education and liberal attainments. From the time of the Revolution there never had been a
 874
 Sir G. Warrender,  in justice to himself and to his colleagues, felt called upon to make a few remarks, upon the importance of the duties of the junior lords of the Admiralty. One of the latest duties he had performed at the Admiralty board was the administration of 300,000 l. 876
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that the simplification of accounts ought to be extended to all the public departments.
 Sir I. Coffin  declared himself of opinion that the lay lords were necessary to the public service. It had been suggested that a lord of the Treasury might be sent for to their assistance; but did the hon. gentleman recollect that the admiralty had a jurisdiction over life and death, and might send a warrant by the post, signifying, "shoot that officer." Suppose a case of mutiny. He was himself once attacked by 600 mutineers at Sheerness, and he resisted them all. Lord Hood and the late lord Gardner, when lords of the admiralty, had very heavy duties to discharge; but if it were found that there was not sufficient employment for the lay lords, for God's sake let them be turned out.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  observed, that he had no personal objection to the gentlemen who now filled the situations which it was the object of his motion to abolish. He was actuated solely by a sense of public duty. As a proof that the business of the Admiralty could be carried on with fewer members, during the war two Lords of the Admiralty were at sea, and distinguished themselves greatly. He was much gratified at the support which the motion had received from the gallant member for Glamorganshire. After fighting the battles of his country, and covering himself with the glories of his profession, it was most pleasing to find him in that House combating for the best interests of the country.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  rose, on the question being put, and said, that he felt it his duty to renew his motion in that committee for the reduction of the grant for defraying the salaries of the junior lords of the admiralty. One of the objections formerly urged against his motion was, that the existing number of the lords of the admiralty board was the same ever since its original formation; and that, in fact,
 868 869 l. l. 870 871 872 l. s. d. l. s. d.
 Sir R. Wilson  thought the visiting magistrates deserved blame for not having exercised a more strict vigilance over the conduct of the gaoler. The manner in which they allowed one of the prisoners to remain with iron handcuffs round his wrists, which weighed ten pounds and a half, could not be too much reprobated. Such was the terror which the oppression of his keepers inspired, that when this unfortunate prisoner was brought before the commissioners, he never ventured to complain.
 Mr. Gooch  said, that as he had joined the small majority which last night supported the salt-tax, it became necessary for him to defend himself from inconsistency in now voting in favour of this motion. He was one of those who thought that reduction of taxation should not precede reduction of expenditure; but if at the end of the session, by the efforts of the House, the estimates were reduced, he should be the foremost to vote to reduce taxes also. He had listened to all the arguments in favour of the two lords of the Admiralty, and he was perfectly persuaded there was no necessity for them.
 Lord Althorp  suggested that, as the
 890
 Lord Althorp  contended, that two lords would be as efficient in cases of inspection as three. In the few instances in which a difference of opinion might occur, the cases, particularly in a time of peace, were not at a Illikely to be of so important a nature as to require an immediate decision.
 Lord Althorp  said, he had understood distinctly that these prospective reductions were announced.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, he had a petition to present from Mr. H. Hunt, confined in Ilchester gaol. It was not his intention to advert to any of the facts stated in the report of the commissioners respecting the cruelties practised upon this individual. He would confine himself to some recent cruelties which Mr. Hunt said had been inflicted upon him. These were contained in a letter which he had received that morning from him. The hon. alderman here read some extracts from Mr. Hunt's letter, from which it appeared that a fresh instance of persecution had occurred by order of the rev. Dr. Colston and another of the visiting magistrates. They discovered that there was a small door, through which Mr. Hunt had access to a small yard, to which allusion was made in the report. This door Mr. Hardy, the gaoler, had suffered to remain open; but as soon as the magistrates discovered it, they ordered it to be shut up. Mr. Hunt farther stated, that in consequence of being shut up every night, and using candlelight from 5 to 12 o'clock, he had got a great weakness in his sight, and was nearly blind of one eye. A short time back, his own surgeon and the surgeon of the prison had to perform an operation on his eye. He wished to have this concealed from his family; but it somehow reached their ears, and his son, and a young lady, his ward, applied, in a state
 892
 Mr. Bennet  deprecated the cruelty of not allowing Mr. Hunt to be attended by his son or ward. What the motive was for such conduct he could not tell; one of the visiting magistrates was a preacher of the gospel; he was certain, however, that his conduct was not, in this instance, conformable with its precepts. The prisoner could not say, in the emphatic language of scripture, "I was sick, and in prison, and you visited me not," but he might say, "I was sick, and in prison, and you persecuted me."
 Mr. Hobhouse  expressed a hope that the attention of government would be turned to the case of Mr. Hunt, with a view to his removal from that gaol altogether, if they should not go farther. When Mr. Hunt was sentenced, it was stated, that Ilchester gaol was chosen as a matter of favour to Mr. Hunt. It now
 893
 Mr. Wynn  denied that there was any prerogative in the Crown to transfer a prisoner under sentence from one gaol to another. It would be a most dangerous precedent; for if it were done in mitigation, it might also be done in aggravation.
 Dr. Lushington  conceived, that a great deal of the inconvenience which Mr. Hunt had suffered, arose out of a misconception on the part of the magistrates. From the report of the commissioners, it was evident, that in the course of nine months they had made nine distinct orders, regarding the manner in which visiters were to be admitted to Mr. Hunt. That circumstance was of itself sufficient to prove that they had been in doubt as to the conduct which they ought to pursue towards him; and being so in doubt, they unfortunately resorted to a mode of remedying their doubts, which absolutely aggravated the disorders they were called upon to check. By availing themselves of a sanction contained in an act of parliament, they had bound up their hands, and left themselves no discretion whatsoever. He adverted to that circumstance to remind such magistrates as had seats in that House, that they ought not to submit to the judges a series of definite regulations for the internal management of
 894
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  said, he had read the report of the commissioners with the deepest regret, and thought that a case had been made out by evidence, to induce the House to look at that prison with peculiar jealousy. He was no advocate for Mr. Hunt; but he was entitled, like every Englishman, to justice, and not to be visited with a severer punishment than the law and the judges intended. He was confident it could not be the wish, either of the government or the magistrates, to countenance proceedings like those to which he had alluded; and he trusted means would be taken without delay to prevent the possibility of their recurrence.
 Mr. Grenfell  wished to ask the chancellor of the exchequer a question, regarding the remuneration which the Bank of England were to receive for managing this transaction. Had the right, hon. gentleman made any compact with the Bank, regarding that remuneration? If the Bank were to have the same remuneration as it had for managing loans, it would be entitled to 800 l. l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no agreement had yet been made as to the rate of remuneration the Bank should receive for its services, in the accomplishment of the proposed plan. The degree of trouble it would have, must, of course, depend upon the number of dissents: the question of remuneration must, therefore, be left open to future consideration. He certainly thought it but just and equitable, that a clause
 895
 Mr. Grenfell  agreed in the last proposition of the right hon. gent., but it was fit to take a little into view the great profits the Bank derived from the public. For the management of the national debt, as it was called, which meant only the payment of the half-yearly dividends, the Bank received 270,000 l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell  moved, the omission for the present, of the clause empowering the lords of the Treasury to remunerate the Bank. Some terms ought first to be made with the directors, and on a future day the chancellor of the exchequer might be prepared to state them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the circumstance of the degree of labour being as yet unascertainable, was, in his opinion, a reason for adopting the clause, subject to the future approbation of parliament.
 Colonel Davies  said, he was prepared to show, that the proposed reductions were not conducted with a view to economy, and that if instead of two troops or two companies from each regiment, a certain number of entire battalions were reduced, the saving to the country beyond what was now proposed, would be 111,000 l.; 898 899 l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 900 l. l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. 901
 Colonel Wood  understood the hon. gentleman to have said, that a considerable portion of the sums voted for the staff was laid out on bands of music, instead of being expended in drilling the recruits. All he could say to this was, that strict
 909
 Mr. Bennet  thought, that before the House resolved to keep up so large a military establishment as that which was proposed, they should consider whether the country was able to pay its creditors. If the public interests were more imperious than the payment of the debt, then that ought to give way; but he did not see how, under existing circumstances, an army of so large an amount was a matter of imperious necessity. He fully concurred in all that had been said, as to the present state of Ireland; but he could not forget that the wretched condition of that country was the effect of the mal-administration of the gentlemen who sat opposite to him. Ireland had enjoyed the full benefit of coercion; she had had insurrection acts, martial law, and fresh troops in abundance; but nothing to improve, to relieve, or to tranquillize her. The state of Ireland brought to his mind every thing connected with abuse and bad government. The hon. member insisted that a reduction of 10,000 men was safe and easy. The cavalry and the guards could afford to lose 2,000. Of 17,000 men in India, 3,000 might be reduced: 5,000 might be taken at once from the force of England. He admit-
 913
 Mr. Caleraft  said, that the reduction of the army being brought to the point for which he had contended during the last six years, he could see nothing in the situation of the country, either at home or abroad, to require any farther reduction. If he did not think so, there was no man more willing than he should be, from constitutional and economical reasons, to support the cause of reduction. So far from conceiving the strength of the army too great at present, he did not know from what part of this country a disposable force could be sent to Ireland if occasion required it. His hon. friend had talked of the inability of the country to pay its troops. But surely no man, whatever his love of retrenchment might be, could look fairly at the situation of England, and say that she could not pay the troops that were necessary to her security. Such an opinion was a desponding opinion; an opinion which exaggerated the distress of the country, and in which he could not concur. The country not pay its troops!
 914 l.
 Sir R. Fergusson  expressed his conviction, that the atrocities committed in Ireland ought to be put down by a military force, and he would prefer the employment of the regular troops to that of the resident yeomanry and volunteers, as being less under the influence of local prejudices. He would, however, support the amendment on the ground of the necessity of limiting our expenses. With respect to our foreign possessions, all he should say was this, that we ought to look at home first, and if we found that we could not keep our colonies but at an expense which the country could not bear, we ought to give them up altogether.
 Sir H. Hardinge  contended for the necessity of keeping up in time of peace, a force necessary to recruit our army in time of war, and insisted particularly on the expediency of making such a provision with respect to the waggon-train—the greatest military authority in the country having given a decided opinion to the same effect.
 General Gascoyne  said, he would certainly vote against the proposed reduction. Honourable members talked of the state in which our army had stood previous to the late war; but, let it be remembered, that very heavy objections had been taken upon the breaking out of that war, to the condition now so lauded. The very small force which England brought into the field had been a source of astonishment and of displeasure to her allies. He (gen. G.) being on service in one of the brigades sent out upon that occasion, the brigade was so weak, that an Austrian general actually took it for a battalion, and asked whether all the British battalions were of equal force. The gallant member contended for the necessity of maintaining such a force as should have an eye to the northern as well as to the southern parts of that country; and concluded by declaring, that the seeds of war existed in every part of Europe, and that appearances were such as to justify measures of precaution. The hon. member for Aberdeen went on, taken up wholly by his figures and marking out reduction here and there in the army, without being possessed of the smallest military know, ledge himself, but denying that an officer could know any thing at all of the matter. He would tell that hon. gentleman, whatever his profession might be, whether it was in the way of slaughtering or of healing, that in this instance his calculations were far from being correct.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought, that a very injudicious mode had been adopted in this case. He would admit, that neither the sheriffs nor the magistrates, had any authority to aggravate the sentence of a prisoner; but no inquiry on this subject had been gone into by the House. If the petition had been intrusted to his care, he would have moved that it be referred to a committee; and he was satisfied that if any cause of complaint was proved to exist, the House would not suffer it to continue.
 Mr. Warre  thought, that under all the circumstances, the reduction of 10,000 men which took place last year was sufficient; but in differing in opinion with his hon. friend the member for Aberdeen, he felt nothing like "disdain," and thought that expression might have been spared on the other side of the House.
 Mr. Hume  began by pointing out the curious predicament in which the gallant officer and his friends stood, who last year had supported ministers in condemning reduction, and this year declared their satisfaction that such reduction had taken place. What was the reason on which
 904 l. l. 905 l. 906 l. l. 907 l., l. 908 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that during the whole war, the Bank had taken a great deal too much out of the public purse, and, in the present state of the country, it ought to lend its aid gratuitously. The Bank of Ireland charged nothing for what it did, while the Bank of England obtained not less than 340,000 l. l.
 Captain O'Grady  disapproved of the mode in which economy had been carried into execution, with regard to the army in Ireland, and instanced the case of two regiments which were disbanded in Limerick, at the very time when rebellion was exhibited in the most unequivocal form. He regretted to observe also, that a military system was now acted on by the insurgents. The insurrection in Ireland could not be put down without force: and, therefore, though there many grievances in that country which ought to be redressed as soon as possible, the military force ought not to be too hastily reduced. He agreed that considerable reductions might be made in the civil departments, and the retired allowances.
 Mr. Denman  observed, that although there was no prerogative to transfer prisoners under sentence, yet it had been done by consent in many cases.
 Mr. Dickinson  said, that Mr. Hunt would now be placed in the same situation in which he was before the regulations complained of.
 Mr. Wilmot  said, he felt himself bound, in the outset of his speech, to protest against the expediency of any farther military reduction. Before, however, he stated the reasons of his dissent from such a measure, he would make a few observations upon what had fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen. With regard to the reduction already effected in the colo-
 911 912 Si vis prcem Para bellum;
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that at the time of Mr. Hunt's sentence, Ilchester gaol was considered as one of the best regulated in the kingdom. It had since turned out, certainly, that this was not the fact.
 Sir H. Vivian  was of opinion, that reductions in the army had been carried as far as they possibly could. With regard to the waggon train he thought it desirable to keep it up as a skeleton; for it was well known to be very inefficient at its first establishment, and it was some time before it was brought into a state of discipline. As to the riding establishment, he considered it of vital importance that a uniform system of riding should be adopted throughout the army. He could not conclude without expressing his gratitude to ministers for having adopted a suggestion which he had made in the last session, for placing majors-general of the army on full regimental allowance instead of half-pay.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he would not have risen upon this question, but for remarks which had been made respecting the state of Ireland, in which he could not concur. His earliest wish had been to get an examination instituted into the state of Ireland, and a remedy applied to the evils which distracted that country. But there was a limit to investigation as to other things, and Ireland was in that state when investigation could not be instituted, and when, not riot, but insurrection, required the strong arm of the law. It was impossible for him to regard as a not what was open insurrection, and a defiance of all law and authority. The government of Ireland had been most scandalously deceived by men who ought to have had correct information. He alluded to the information given respecting Belfast and Mountrath. Most dreadful outrages and horrid assassinations had been committed. A Roman catholic clergyman had been attacked, because he had from the altar recommended peace and good order. Could he doubt that this was a state requiring additional military force? He trusted that these dreadful disorders would pass away, but it would be by the vigorous execution of the law in putting down violence. It would be imperious
 910
 Lord Althorp  agreed with the hon. member for Shrewsbury that 10,000 men might be reduced, with perfect safety to the country.
 Lord Palmerston  stated, that the increase of the colonial force, even now, was only 1,678 men, of which number 588 came under the head of New South Wales; and no one who was aware of the great change which had taken place in that colony since 1792 could suppose that an increased force of 588 men was disproportioned to the new state of things. In the same way, it must at once be perceived that an increase of force was necessary in the American colonies. But, notwithstanding the change of circumstances, the number of men in the colonies was, on the whole, less than in 1792. In that year, the force abroad was 17,793 men; at present it was estimated at 14,965; being a reduction of nearly 3,000 men. The total amount was less considerable than in 1792, and where the number appeared greater, the circumstances sufficiently accounted for the increase. Now, the proposition of the hon. colonel was, to deduct from the force in the colonies 3,600 men. The hon. colonel had forgotten what had been already done, and what he and his friends had endeavoured to effect last year. Last session they proposed to reduce our military establishment 10,000 men. Government had in the interval not merely made reductions to the amount of 10,000, but of 12,300 men. The hon. gentlemen opposite had thus obtained a reduction of 2,300 men more than they demanded last year, and still they were dissatisfied. Then came the hon. colonel and proposed a reduction of 3,000 more. The appetite of the hon. gentleman, it must be confessed, was not easily gratified; for he not only was dissatisfied with the reductions, but the mode in which they were effected. If, however, his plan had been followed, of reducing by regiments rather than by companies, the saving would have been at least 50,000 l. 902 nucleus, l., l., 903 l.; l., l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the estimates which he had now to bring forward would show, that in the army very considerable reductions had taken place, and very considerable savings had been made. The reductions amounted in men to 12,304, and the saving, that is to say, the total decrease of charge in 1822, amounted to
 896 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. 897 l. l., l. l. l. l.;
 Mr. B. Wilbraham  said, he had intended to introduce a measure having the same object as that now proposed. He fully concurred in the propriety of the bill. The evil complained of arose out of the necessity of bringing the action before the higher courts, which, as the law now stood, could not be avoided.
 Mr. Kennedy  rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill to alter the mode of chusing Juries to serve on Criminal Causes in Scotland. It was well known, that the justiciary, or criminal court, sat in Edinburgh at all times of the year, except while it was going the circuits, which occurred twice a year. To this court all matters of a criminal nature might be referred. Besides this, there was another, under the jurisdiction of the sheriff, who was not art officer chosen as in this country, but a magistrate appointed by the Crown, with the power to administer justice in certain civil and criminal cases. In all cases, except those of high treason, the lord advocate proceeded by a process similar to our  ex officio 918
 The Lord Advocate  did not rise to offer any objection to the introduction of the measure, but begged of the House not to allow itself to be prejudiced by the statement which the hon. member had made, for he should be able to show, on the second reading, that a more uncalled for and unwise measure could not be devised.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it was true, that, if the produce of the land was divided into certain proportions, every party would be benefitted by an abundant crop; but his learned friend having come to that conclusion, left his argument there, instead of extending it a little farther. Now, he would ask his learned friend whether, if the quantity of commodity were excessively abundant, that was to say, the double, treble, or quadruple of an ordinary crop, it would not be a cause of poverty to the agriculturist? He maintained that it would be so; for the farmer, after having satisfied the consumption of himself and family, would find, upon going to exchange the surplus of his commodity for other commodity, such a competition in the market as would compel him to dispose of it upon very low terms; and thus abundance of produce would be to him a cause of distress. It was true that, from the alteration of the currency, the evil had been aggravated; for it was clear that it rendered it necessary to sell a greater quantity of corn to answer the demands of the government and the landlord. But he now contended, as he had at all former times contended, that, up to a certain point, for instance, 10 per cent, great loss had been derived from
 920
 Mr. Lockhart  said, it was a great misfortune that in a well-regulated country the costs of an action of this sort should be twenty-two fold the amount of the damage done. He trusted that this measure would be a precedent for other bills, which might save the people from being law-ridden as they now were—their best blood being sucked up by this vampyre. It was the duty of parliament to devise means by which the people should have justice brought to their doors without this enormous expense.
 Mr. Hume  explained how the mistake, which he allowed he had made respecting the amount of the reductions in the forces of the colonies, had arisen. It was from having found the forces differently stated in two different papers: in the one, they were only stated rank and file; in the other, their officers were also included. He assured the 0House that he never made any statement without deliberation.
 Mr. Hume  said, that having last night endeavoured, but in vain, to persuade the committee to reduce the number of men for the service of the year, he now wished to put upon record the opinion which he entertained regarding the large amount of the present standing army. He was not anxious to prevent troops from being sent to Ireland to put an end to the disturbances which existed there: quite the contrary; he wished those disturbances to be put down with all speed, whatever might be the of original causes of them. The only difference which existed between himself and the members of his majesty's government was, that he thought that there were already in Ireland troops enough to effect that object. The way he made that assertion out was this. By the estimates that had been presented to the House, it appeared that in Ireland there were 18,397 men, and that in England, including reliefs, there were 22,462 men, making a total of 40,859 men. There were also three veteran battalions, which increased that total to 43,550 men. Now he contended, that such a number of men, exclusive of the assistance to be derived from the artillery, who amounted to 7,000 men, from the marines, who amounted to 8,000 men, anti from the troops in the colonies, exclusive of the East Indies, who amounted to 27,943 men more, was more than sufficient to quell the disturbances now raging in Ireland. The noble lord in his statement had omitted to take any notice of the artillery, marines, and veteran battalions, and had stated the amount of the forces at home and in the colonies at 68,802 men. Now he maintained, upon the declaration of the noble marquis opposite, that as the marines were performing the duty of regular soldiers in the Mediterranean, and the veteran battalions the same at home, they ought to be included, in future, with the artillery in the account of the regular army; and, in that case, the military
 921 l., 922
 Mr. Denison  rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the act of the 57th of George III., for effectually preventing seditious meetings. The object of his bill was, to lessen the expenses attendant upon actions instituted to recover damages done by riotous mobs. To show how necessary it was that the present system should be amended, he would state the expenses that had been incurred upon some actions which were tried at the two last assizes for Surry. Eleven actions were brought to recover damages to the amount of 69 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. s. l. s. d.
 Mr. Wilmot  thought, that the hon. member for Aberdeen would have done better if he had made the speech with which he had that evening favoured the House, on a former evening in the committee, and when the hon. member for Liverpool was present to repel the attack which had been made upon him. He begged leave most distinctly to assert, that he had never made use of the expressions "petty, paltry savings," whatever might appear to the contrary in those historical fragments of the day of which they had recently heard so much. Neither had he said that the proposition of the hon. member ought to be rejected with disdain. He would show the House, by a repetition of what he did say, that he could not have used any such language. The hon. member for Aberdeen had said,
 923
 Mr. Scarlett  presented a petition from Petermrough, complaining of the distressed state of Agriculture. He fully concurred al one statement of the petitioners; namely, that a great portion of the distress arose from the return to cash payments. He did not now mean to dispute the propriety of a measure of which he had been a worm advocate, but he stated the fact as
 919 l.
 Mr. Scarlett  thought, there might be some mode of investigating the actual damage, so as to prevent imposition, without the verdict of a jury, which would save the unnecessary expense, and upon which the magistrates might assess a rate upon the county.
 Mr. Bennet  commenced by saying, that, pursuant to notice, he rose for the purpose of bringing under the consideration of the House the circumstances attending the Funeral of her late majesty the Queen. In doing so, he did not think it necessary to make any apology. True it was, that when an individual so little qualified, either by his situation or abilities, undertook such a task, some apology might appear necessary; but, the importance of the subject, the deep interest which the people of this country took in it, and, above all, the honour and character of England which it involved, forced it upon him as a duty; and whatever various motives might be ascribed to him; he under this consciousness, fearlessly undertook it. Towards the latter end of the month of July last her majesty was seized with that illness, which, after some days of suffering, terminated her existence on the 7th of August. To him, it was matter of surprise, indeed, that she so long held out, under the accumulated wrongs and injuries which were heaped upon her; under the sort of persecution to which she had been exposed; but, above all, under that hope deferred which maketh the heart sick. Recollecting these circumstances,
 924 925 926 927 928 929 930 animus 931 932 933 934 935 936
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that so far from accusing the navy of disrespectful conduct, his meaning was directly the reverse. He wished to state distinctly, that the navy had conducted themselves on that occasion with the greatest feeling and propriety. What he complained of was, that no boats were ready at the jetty to convey her majesty's attendants on board at the time that the body was embarked.
 Colonel Gossel  understood, that the hon. member for Shrewsbury found fault with the way in which the coffin was lowered into the boat. If any one was to blame on that occasion, it was himself. He had I consulted with captain Doyle as to the best and safest method of conveying the body on board. At the beach the water was shallow, and the coffin could not be carried to the boat. Both captain Doyle and himself agreed that the best way was to lower the coffin into the boat by the crane at the ordnance jetty. The next question was by whom it should be lowered? Several officers were appointed for that purpose, but they were so unaccustomed to the use of the crane, that it was thought expedient to employ four men who were so used to the work. Captain White tendered his assistance to carry all these dispositions into effect. There was abundance of room in the boat into which the coffin was lowered; and he confessed that he felt surprised that none of her late majesty's attendants accompanied the body. When the procession approached Harwich he went out to meet it, and riding up to the carriage in which was sir G. Nayler, advised him to take the body at once to the jetty, for that the tide would not serve above three or four hours longer, and, therefore, if the body was not embarked then, it must be embarked at night, or wait four and twenty hours. Sir G. Nayler and his attendants wanted rest. He (col. G.) had offered his dining room for the reception of the body. The church was not in a state to receive it. The mayor offered the Town Hall, but on examining the stairs, there appeared to be a sudden turn which would render it difficult to carry the coffin up. The question, therefore, was, if it became necessary for the body to remain all night ashore; whether it should remain at the Three Cups-inn, or at his house? He could assure the House upon his honour, that he had the windows taken out of his
 938
 Dr. Lushington  assured the house, that he felt the deepest regret at being compelled to rise to address it upon the present occasion. Could his own inclinations have been consulted, this subject would not have been brought under its consideration. It became, however, his bounden duty, as the question had been introduced, to make some remarks upon what had fallen from one side and from the other, and he would endeavour to follow the example of the right hon. gentleman in abstaining from touching upon topics likely to excite irritation. It had
 950 951 952 953 onus? 954 955 956 957 958 959 960 961 962 carte blanche carte blanche.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  thought it due to the learned gentleman to state, that he had met the point at issue, in a very fair and candid manner. After the able explanation of his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel), and the clear statement of his hon. friend (Mr. Calvert), the duty he had to perform was narrowed to one or two points, contained in the speech of the learned gentleman. By what had fallen from the learned gentleman, it was evident that the earl of Liverpool had done every thing in his power to facilitate the duties of those who were connected with the funeral. No blame could fairly be attached to the presence of the military; for he found the learned gentleman declaring, as executor, that it would have been a manifestation of disrespect if they had not attended. In short, he had very little necessity to step forward and defend the conduct of ministers, since it would be quite sufficient to quote the learned member's speech, in the course of which he had swept clean away every accusation that could be brought against them, as this was the case, he would leave the conduct of ministers out of the question, and apply his observations to certain points which required explanation. He would first look to the true position of the parties at the time—a point which the learned gentleman had not stated. The learned gentleman conceived it to be necessary that he should, by some act on his part, have divested himself of the character of executor, before the ordering of the funeral was taken cut of his hands: and, as he had done no such act, he inferred that it was in consequence of some special order issued by the earl of Liverpool that the funeral of her majesty passed from his hands, as executor, and was intrusted to those of the government. He had argued that if every thing had been conducted in a regular and suitable manner, he would have remained to the last, as the acting person. Now, he (the marquis) would contend, that though this might have been the case with respect to an executor under ordinary circumstances, yet the rule did not apply where a member of the royal family was concerned. The learned gentleman was informed, on the first interview he had with the earl of Liverpool, that the expenses of the funeral would be borne on the part of the Crown and of the public. This the learned gentleman admitted; and he also admitted that the earl of Liverpool was most anxious to hear and weigh every
 964 programme 965 966 967 968 969 970
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, it was not his intention to have trespassed upon the House, had it not been for some expressions which had fallen from the noble lord, and the right hon. secretary. He had hoped, that they were not, at that time of day to be told that those who advocated the cause of the Queen were a faction and a cabal. He had hoped, that the people of this country would no longer have been termed a faction, because they had come forward with honest and manly sincerity in behalf of one whom they conceived to be suffering under the strong grasp of power, and to have been made the victim of the most unjust persecution to which any individual, in any age or country, had ever been exposed. If by the word faction was meant a vast majority of the people of England, in fact, the whole of the nation, except those whose interest it was to join in the persecution, then he could understand how its might be applied to those who advocated the cause of her majesty. But the term faction could not apply to the nation at large; it was applicable only to a few designing, base, intriguing, interested individuals, who had meanly endeavoured to raise themselves upon the ruin of a woman—and that woman a Queen, whom it was their duty to protect, the wife of their sovereign, to whom, instead of fostering his prepossessions, it was their duty to give sound and manly advice. These individuals where indeed, a factious cabal. It was not a portion of the English nation, but the whole of the people who had taken the part of the Queen. The generous sentiments which they had expressed in her behalf, would be confirmed by posterity;
 971 972 Res dura et regni novitas. 973 974
 Colonel Cavendish  said, the soldiers were pelted as soon as they appeared.
 975
 Sir H. Hardinge  defended the keeping up of the table for the guards, and contended that the junior officers of that corps were worse paid than the officers of the line, who had many allowances which
 983
 General Gascoyne  said, that he had freely confessed his regret for the personal allusion into which he had been betrayed, on a former night, in the heat of debate. The hon. member had last night assumed something respecting the manner in which he (general G.) had acquired his present military rank. To that allusion he should only reply, that he had obtained his present rank by forty years of service, extending when and where it was required, or wherever he had the honour of a command, sometimes by loss of blood, and often with fatigue and danger.
 General Gascoyne  said, he had attended most watchfully to all which had been said with respect to her majesty's funeral, in order to ascertain whether the charges were made out. The hon. member for Aberdeen had attended at Brandenhurgh-house, no doubt with all that solemnity and sorrow which the great loss he had sustained was likely to call forth; and yet the hon. member could not check his habitual thirst for economy and retrenchment, for he had scarcely entered the house of mourning, when be complained of the extravagant expenditure incurred by putting up so much superfine black cloth. The hon. member had next complained of the conduct of the military, and he had condemned their want of discipline for having acted without orders, and in the next sentence he contradicted himself and justified the military; "for," said he, "I admit that the soldiers were in a situation of difficulty; I admit that it was a hard case." Really! The hon. member did then think it a little hard that men with arms in their hands should be pelted and knocked from their horses without making any effort to defend themselves. Did the hon. member mean to contend, that because a man put on a red coat he was to be deprived of all right of defending himself? Did he mean to contend, that when the military were called out to preserve the peace, they were only to form a part of the shew and pageantry? Perhaps, the hon. member would rather that no military escort should have been sent to attend the funeral of the Queen. But had ministers acted in that way, then the cry would have been, that they had
 944
 Mr. John Calvert  said, he was present at the embarkation of the body of her late majesty at Harwich. He saw the coffin lowered into the boat in the most solemn manner. The naval officers and men who attended behaved with the utmost decorum; and every thing had been provided by the admiralty, that could insure a respectful attention to the remains of her late majesty. The guns had been fired both at Harwich and at Stade. On the arrival of the body at Zell, it was carried to the church, which was fitted up with black for the occasion. Throughout the whole of the journey the utmost respect and solemnity were observed. The Hanoverian government must have made great exertions to provide for the progress of so large a procession, in which there were sixty horses to be changed at every stage.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had witnessed the whole of the ceremony, and must do the navy the justice to say, that he never witnessed more creditable and honourable conduct than that of captain White and the sailors. Both officers and men, while the body was lowering into the boat, showed every mark of respect and feeling. When the coffin was lowered into the boat, the crown and cushion were immediately handed into the boat, accompanied by sir G. Nayler, who placed himself at the head of the coffin. But that of which his hon. friend complained, was, the disgraceful neglect in not providing the means of embarking the attendants on her majesty's funeral. Lord Hood, as chief mourner, had asked what conveyance there was for carrying him on board? There were no boats. Lord Hood then asked, how he could return, if he went to Cuxhaven? Captain White replied, that he had no instructions, but that he would take it upon himself to say, that his frigate, the Tyne, should attend for the purpose of conveying any part of her majesty's household back from the opposite shore. The gentlemen of her majesty's household, were, however, left on the quay; and it was for some time doubtful whether any conveyance on board was to be afforded them. He appealed to an hon. member opposite, whether considerable indecision had not been manifested, until a letter arrived from the Admiralty which, that hon. member said, contained the necessary orders? He was surprised that the gallant officer should have said there appeared any unwillingness on the part of the mourners attending the funeral, to go into the boat in which the body was placed. The fact was, that the persons who attended were ready and anxious to attend the coffin, but no attempt had been made to provide boats to take them off; indeed, so little was known upon the subject, that it was for some time a question with the mourners whether they were to proceed in the king's ship or take the packet. But this was a small part of the complaint made by the hon. member for Shrewsbury. Before, however, he quitted this part of the question, he felt it necessary to do justice to the conduct of the gallant officer (colonel Gossett). While the funeral remained at Harwich, that gallant member had used his utmost endeavours to pay the remains of her ma-
 939 940 941 942 943
 Mr. Hume  said, he had no wish to throw any impediments in the way of the public business, but it did appear to him, that, after the House had been occupied seven hours upon a most interesting debate, it could not bestow that attention to the proposed vote which it demanded. The first item was 37,000 l. l. 979 l. 980 l.; l. l. l. l. l. 981 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Denman  said, that if there was boldness in his learned friend's ascribing, as he had done, the untimely death of her majesty to her coming to this country, it was equally bold to aver, that in coming here she had acted on the advice of others, and not on the decision of her own uninfluenced judgment. When the House considered the treatment which she had received abroad—when they considered the conduct of government towards her—when they considered the threats and bribes with which it was attempted to keep her from our shores, they would see that she had no alternative but to come to England, no course left but to face her accusers. When she left Italy, and before she had taken counsel of any advise' but her own magnanimous spirit, her resolution was fixed to come to this country. When she arrived at St. Omer's she was to all intents and purposes in England, and must have acted as she had done, unless she had chosen to sacrifice her rights and to abandon her character. She had faced her accusers and she came to triumph. Nevertheless, calumnies continued to be heaped upon her, which banished her friends, and prevented her from enjoying that universal respect which the establishment of her character would otherwise have procured. His hon. friend had ascribed those sufferings which broke her majesty's heart to her imprudence in coming to England. But, were none of them to be ascribed to the atrocious libels with which, after her trial, she was
 977 978
 Mr. Denman  rose to order. He was sure the House had heard with satisfaction the gallant general express his regret for a phrase he had used on a former night; but he was now referring to what had taken place on a former night, which was disorderly.
 Mr. W. Lamb  denied he had ever said that the mob were the only supporters of her late majesty. When be spoke about a mob, he had made no allusion to the people of England, nor could he consider the people of England as responsible for those acts which were done by a tumultuous rabble, of whose conduct they must disapprove. With respect to the question before the House, he would say, that he could not approve of the conduct of government, in ordering the route which they did for the Queen's funeral. He thought it should have been allowed to pass through the city. He thought so, because he had the greatest confidence in the quiet dispositions of the people. In seasons of excitement, he had seen them
 976
 Mr. Peel  said, he must premise, that he had no personal knowledge of any of the circumstances involved in this debate; but, after the most careful attention he was capable a bestowing upon the documents to which he had referred in his office, his conscientious conclusion was, that throughout the arrangements for her late majesty's funeral, the responsible persons connected with government were entirely actuated by a desire to pay all proper respect to the high rank of the deceased. He wished to take this opportunity of recording his entire acquiescence in every proceeding upon that occasion, and his complete conviction, that no other course could have been pursued with equal propriety. He approached the discussion with the intention of doing that which seemed to be in conformity with the wishes of the House, namely, to avoid every topic that could create irritation, He would, therefore, leave unnoticed some things that had fallen from hon. gentlemen on, the other side. Upon those points he had already had an opportunity of expressing his opinion, and he did not wish to revive the topics, and to bring them again into discussion. The real question was embodied in the resolution of the hon. mover, and it was this:—whether it was fit for the House to mark its censure of government, by declaring that there was a want of due respect in the proceedings that took place after the demise of her late majesty. For himself, he was willing to rest the decision upon the speeches of the hon. members for Shrewsbury and Aberdeen, comparing the impression which those speeches' had made with the effect produced by the addresses of the lord of the admiralty, of the hon. officer who conducted the military arrangements, and of the hon. gentleman connected with the department of the lord chamberlain. He appealed confidently to the House, whether those three honourable gentlemen had not afforded conclusive proofs as to the  animus 946 947 948 949
 The Speaker  said, the House would feel the difficulties he should have to encounter if he were called upon when any deviation from strict order took place, to interpose. It was most certainly irregular to refer to a former debate; but as he had not interfered in the allusion of one hon. member, which was irregular when it was made, he was at a loss to see how he could now interfere to prevent another hon. member, who conceived himself alluded to in his absence, from giving that explanation respecting himself, which he deemed relevant.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, he was happy to hear the explanation given by the hon. gentleman, although he could not admit the accuracy even of that explanation. He was not present himself, but he had it from a very excellent officer, captain White, who was there, that he ordered all the persons to be taken on board whom the executors pointed out to him for that purpose. He called on an hon. and gallant friend of his opposite to state how the navy had behaved on that occasion. A learned gentleman opposite had told him that nothing had ever been better done. He would appeal to that learned gentleman, whether the Admiralty did not express their disposition to give him a vessel of any description of force he chose, for the purpose of conveying the body of her late majesty to Cuxhaven? They had re-
 937
 Sir G. Cockburn  wished to say a few words on what had fallen from the hon. mover, with respect to the conduct of the navy at Harwich, which that hon. member had characterized as deficient in respect.
 Sir I. Coffin  felt satisfied, that no good could possibly arise from again bringing the case of the late Queen before parliament and the country. He was tempted to exclaim—"Infandum, regina, jubes renovare dolorem," when he reflected on the conduct of those who were injudicious enough to recall the attention of the House to this subject.
 Lord Palmerston  entered into a defence of the several items to which objections had been made. With respect to the clothing, he conceived nothing like a case had been made out. As to
 982 l. l.,
 Mr. Coke  observed, that constituted as that House was, he was well convinced that neither the petition before them, nor indeed, petitions from every county in the kingdom, would be attended with any beneficial result. The hon. member had said something which tended to depreciate the character of that meeting; and yet he had admitted that it was most respectable. There could be no surprise on the county, as the meeting had been long advertised. The petitioners looked for parliamentary reform as the only effectual remedy. They were right. It was in vain to look for redress in any other measure. How was it possible, after witnessing the decision of the House the other night upon the subject of the salt-tax, when about 60 or 70 placemen voted at the command of the noble marquis, for any one to suppose that that House would attend to the prayers of the people? The hon. member for Suffolk had himself declared to his constituents at the meeting, that he would support that part of the petition which called for the repeal of the taxes on leather, malt, salt, and other necessary articles of consumption. [Mr. Gooch dissented.] The hon. member shook his head in denial, and he therefore supposed the information was incorrect. But, he was the more ready to believe so, because the hon. member had voted against the proposed repeal of the salt-tax. As to the plan which the ministers had promulgated for relieving the distresses of the country, it had operated most injuriously upon the agricultural interest. The promulgation of that plan had already caused the price of barley to decline from 11 s. s. d. 985
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that after what had recently passed, immediately affecting the domestic happiness of the hon. member for Norfolk, he had hoped to have found him in a better temper [a laugh.] If the hon. member's mind had not been engaged on a more interesting subject, and he had been left at liberty to attend to the arguments of ministers on the subject of the agricultural distress, he believed the hon. member would have spared some of the observations which he had made. The hon. member had advised him to go to Mark-lane, to see the effect which his plan had produced. Now, he believed the gentlemen at Mark-lane were much more sagacious than the hon. member imagined, and that the granting or denial of reform would be the last circumstance that could affect the price of corn. He was also of opinion, that the gentlemen at Mark-lane would be the first to complain of a reduction of taxation to an extent that would injure public credit. With respect to the question before the House, he was always inclined to manifest great deference to the proceedings of any public meeting, but he could not admit that because the meeting which voted the petition was called a county meeting, it therefore represented the collective sentiments of the wisdom, property, and education of the county.
 The Marquis of Londonderry,  in explanation, observed, that nothing could have been further from his intention than to make any remark that was calculated to wound the feelings of the hon. member for Norfolk.
 Mr. J. Macdonald  observed, that the ill-timed pleasantry in which the noble marquis had indulged, would, he did not doubt, be a source of satisfaction to his own mind, but it would be viewed with different feelings by the people out of doors, who were anxiously watching the proceedings of that House. The noble marquis had thought fit to taunt his hon. friend, the member for Norfolk, and to
 986 987 988 989 magnum vectigal parsimonia.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as no objection would be made to his motion, he would not detain the House by more than one or two remarks. It appeared that the charge of management of the Post-office amounted to 617,962 l.; 991 d. l. s. l. s. l. s. l., l. l. 992 l.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that his constituents felt a very strong interest in the present petition. The meeting had been convened in consequence of a requisition signed by all parties. That meeting came to an unanimous adoption of the petition. The result of such a meeting would, he had no doubt, be a lesson to the hon. member for the county (Mr. Gooch), and to those other members of that House who did not represent venal places.
 Mr. Gooch  said, that the hon. member had stated, that he had pledged himself to the repeal of certain taxes. Now he begged to say, that he had done no such thing. All he had said was, that he would vote for the repeal of taxes, wherever they could be taken away with safety to the public credit; and that as fast as our expenditure could be reduced, he would support the reduction of taxation. He thought it of the utmost importance, that faith should be kept with the national creditor; and that though we might be a poor, we ought to be an honest nation. The hon. member had stated that the pre-
 990
 Mr. Gooch  rose to present a petition from the county of Suffolk, which had been placed in his hands under peculir circumstances. There was no man who was less disposed to allow his own political impressions to sway him, in attending, so far as was consistent with a sense of independence, to the wishes of every portion of his constituents. The petition was perfectly correct, and couched in proper language. It was agreed to at a county meeting convened by the sheriff, at the requisition of the Whig aristocracy of that county principally. There were not more than six signatures of any other party. The requisition was carried round so quietly, that he did not believe its existence at the time was known through that great space of the county from Ipswich to Norfolk. That was the more surprising, because there was not an individual of his acquaintance that would not have signed the requisition. But the great object was, to have a unanimous meeting to take the distress of the agricultural body into consideration. For that beneficial purpose it was arranged that all political discussion should be avoided. The subject of parliamentary reform had, however, been introduced. The sheriff refused to put that question, as it was not stated in the requisition; and he did not wish to take the county by surprise. After that meeting was adjourned, he, with a few friends within a morning's ride of Stow-market, where the meeting was held, went home. The sheriff received a second requisition, comprehending the question of parliamentary reform, and was persuaded to convene the meeting on the same day. The question of reform was completely carried, and the petition entrusted to his hon. colleague, whose absence from indisposition he most sincerely regretted. That petition, though handed about for six weeks, was not very numerously signed. To a reform of abuses, to the punishment of offences against the law,
 984
 Mr. Maberly  said, that the papers for which he was about to move, were necessary to show the high rate, of
 993 l., l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he had always understood, that the Bank of Ireland, so far from receiving 2,000 l.
 Mr. Gurney  said, it was perfectly well known to all who heard him, that while the Bank of England conducted their own affairs they went on very prosperously; and that it was only when they were interfered with by theorists and speculators that they experienced any thing like distress.
 Mr. Grenfell  assured the hon. rector (Mr. Pearse) that he had not
 997 l.
 Mr. Lushington  moved the order of the day,
 998
 Mr. Lushington  said, that on the question of legal competency, the answer was immediate and satisfactory. By the 53rd of the late king, it was declared, that the 238,000,000 l. 1004 l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that so far from thinking the plan unwise either in its principle or machinery, he was convinced, from the best consideration he could give the subject, that it was a fir and just one. The first question propounded by his right hon. friend was, "Are we, in point of law and good faith, competent to reduce the rate of interest, until we have actually extinguished 25,000,000 l. 1006
 Mr. Williams  said, he had his doubts as to the question of law, and thought that the mode of executing the plan was one which would violate good faith. The five per cents were established under the 24th of the late king; arid the clause of that act expressly stated, that the five per cents should not be redeemed until 25 millions of the public debt should be first paid off. He thought the Words of
 1008 l. l. 1009 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. 1010
 The Attorney General  observed, that his opinion as to the situation in which the House stood in consequence of the 34th of the late king, was very different from that of the hon. gentleman, for according to the opinion of the hon. gentleman, the House would be placed in this situation, that they could never reduce the five per cents until the debt was reduced below what it was in 1784. The question for the House to consider really was, "Had the country paid off 25 millions of debt in the sense contemplated in that clause? It was said by some, that the raising money by loans to pay off debt was a mere juggle that would not satisfy the words of the act. But, it was not by loans merely, but by the redemption of the land tax, that a large sum had been reduced. Besides this, the act which passed in 1813, for cancelling a part of the stock in the hands of the commissioners for the reduction of the debt, recited, that, whereas the 238 millions purchased by the commissioners exceeded the total of the capital of the debt existing in 1786, that amount of public debt should be deemed to be satisfied and discharged, and that so much stock might be cancelled. After this express declaration by act of parliament, that so much of the debt should be deemed to be satisfied and paid off, on that alone he thought they might safely rest, independently of that measure, the redemption of the land tax, which put an end to all doubts on the subject.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that whenever the conduct of the Bank was brought before the notice of the House, he should think it his duty to speak of it as he thought and felt. With regard to the directors, he was willing, at all times, to give them full credit for honesty of intention; but he could not help thinking, that they had at different times involved the country in. considerable difficulties. He persisted in saying, that the Bank restriction act which was passed in 1797, might have been unattended with detriment to the country, had the directors known how to manage their own concerns. But, not knowing how to manage them upon true principles, they had issued a quantity of paper so large as to depreciate its own value; and to recover from that depreciation, the country had found it necessary to undergo a painful process, which had been the cause of a great part of the present distress. Even since the year 1819, the Bank had committed a great error in
 995 l. l. l.
 Mr. Ellice  said, the declarations of the House in the year 1813 were now represented as conclusive with respect to the act of the 37th of the late king; but at that period government was desirous of altering the amount of the sinking fund, although they were now told, in 1822, that an immense amount of the 3 per cents had been paid off since 1797. If the act meant a  bona fide l., 1005 l. l.
 Mr. Tierney  said, he had made no objection to the principle of the measure; but had merely objected to the mode of carrying it into effect.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that there were so many important considerations arising out of the present question, that it was extremely desirable that the discussion should be conducted in the presence of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who was at once best acquainted with, and most responsible for, the arrangements upon this subject. He need not say, therefore, that he much regretted his absence, as well as the cause of it. As to the power of parliament to pay off the 5 per cents, they being declared, by an act of the 37th of the late king, irredeemable until 25,000,000 l. l. sub silentio. 999 l. l. 1000 1001 1002 s. l. l. s. l. 1003 l. l.
 Mr. Monck  agreed, as to the mischief which the Bank had occasioned to the public, but could not concur in thinking that they did not know how to manage their own affairs. Did the House recollect the advantage which the Bank had taken of the Restriction act? That act, when it was passed, was by no means intended to be permanent. Its duration was limited to three months. But it was found so convenient to gentlemen in business, to the merchants and manufacturers, and to the Bank of England, that great reluctance was expressed to repeal it. It was continued, therefore, during the war; and although its duration was limited to six months after the return of peace, so unwilling were the Bank to return to cash payments, that nothing short of the positive declaration of that House could have induced them to do it. At the time of the restriction, the whole amount of the Bank paper in circulation was eight millions. But during the war, they raised that amount to thirty-three millions. By this conduct, the paper was depreciated 25 per cent as respected gold, and 50 per cent. as respected other commodities. Now, what did the directors do during the suspension of cash payments? They lent their money right and left to government
 996
 Mr. Monck  observed, that the provision that the five per cent holders should be paid off in the order of their dissent, was unjust, as it tended to create a different
 1011
 Mr. Pearse  said, that no comparison could fairly be made between the conduct of the Bank of England and that of Ireland. The practice of contrasting the charges made by the one with those made by the other, was extremely invidious. While the Bank of England had a specific engagement for managing the national debt, and whilst it lent its money to the government at 3 per cent., the Bank of Ireland was enabled to lend its money to the same quarter at 5 per cent. If that difference of interest were taken into consideration, the balance would be found to be much in favour of the Bank of England. it mattered very little, whether it was in the shape of management, or of a higher rate of interest that the respective Banks received their emoluments. If the Bank of England were to receive the same interest, on the motley which it had advanced to government, as the Bank of Ireland did, its emoluments would be more than 2,000 l. l. 994
 Mr. T. Wilson  reminded the hon. gentleman, that what he called a superfluity of paper-money had raised the price of corn and of rents. It was difficult to say, if the restriction on cash payments in 1797, had not taken place, how affairs would have gone on. Certain it was, that the war could not have been maintained with the energy which brought it to so successful a close; and some of the gentlemen opposite would assuredly not have enjoyed the high rents which they had been receiving. The Bank had invariably conducted themselves throughout the contest in conformity to the wishes of government [hear, hear!]; and with a view to the best interests of the country.
 Mr. Huskisson  thought, there could be little doubt, indeed, that the plan was consistent with the principles of public faith, and of law. With respect to the right of paying off the five per cents, the right hon. gentleman opposite had alluded to a clause in the 37th of the king, which stated that the five per cents were not to be paid off until 25 millions of the national debt should be redeemed. The words of that act, he was willing to say, would admit of various constructions; but one construction, he thought, could not, with any appearance of reason, be put upon them. It could not be contended that the condition would not be fulfilled until the debt, as it stood in the year 1797, should be reduced by 25 millions. It might perhaps be argued, that, if the government borrowed with one hand to pay off debt with another, though debt might be nominally reduced, the condition would not be fulfilled, because in fact the country, whilst it was paying off debt in one way, would be increasing debt in another. But the country had  bonâ fide bona fide 1007 l. l. l.
 Mr. Manning  declared, that when the Bank restriction of cash payments had been enacted, it had been enacted for only a limited period. Parliament had, however, thought fit to continue it, notwithstanding a resolution of the court of directors, expressing their wish and power to resume payments in specie. He should abstain from any invidious comparison between the Banks of England and of Ireland; but this he would say, that though nothing was charged for the management of the Irish debt, yet the difference between the interest at 5 and at 3 per cent was an advantage of 32,000 l. l.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the idea that raising of loans to buy up stock was a  bona fide
 Sir J. Newport  reminded the House, that when the charter of the Bank of Ireland was renewed in 1808, one of the conditions was, that it should lend to the public 1,000,000 l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, it had been asserted, that the superannuation act had been studiously abused. Now, he did not say that it was not open to abuse; and that, in the great many cases which were connected with it, some abuses might not be traced. But his right hon. friend had stated a case which was  prima facie 1033 1034 l. l. l., l. 1035
 Mr. Bennet  contended, that the resolution distinctly pledged the House to support the principle of superannuation, which was in itself extremely objectionable. He could see no hardship in official men being obliged to maintain, them selves when they retired, out of their
 1036 l. l. l. l. l. l. * See Parl. History, vol. 21, p. 258. 1037
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it would perhaps be the wish of the House that he should, at this stage of the proceedings, state what arrangement had been made by government, pursuant to the addresses presented to the Crown upon the subject of superannuation allowances to officers retiring from situations under government. Previously to the 50th of the late king, great difficulties arose in providing for persons who, from age or debility, retired from public offices. It had been always understood, that the legal right of making provision for such officers lay in the king in council, and in the Treasury in certain cases. He must however, confess, that until the 50th of the late king, the instances in which this power was exercised by the Crown were very rare. It had been usual to provide for the worn-out servants of the Crown, by appointing them to sinecure offices (of which there then existed several, which had since been cut off), or to places the duties of which were very trifling. Another mode provision was, by obliging the successor to pay the person who retired a portion of the salary of the office.
 1016 l. l.; l. s. s. d. 1017 l.; l., l.; l. l. 1018 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1019 l. l. l., l. l., l. l. 1020 l., l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 1021 l. l., l., l. l., l. l., l., l. l., l.; l. l., 1022 1023 1024 s. s. d. l., l. 1025 l. l. l., l. l. 1026 l.; l., l. l. l.; l. l., l. l.; l., l.; l. l. l. .; 1027 l., l., l. s. l. l. l.
 Mr. Bankes  expressed his sense of the liberal donation from the Crown. With respect to some of the details which had been stated, he could not altogether concur with the right hon. gentleman. He was not quite satisfied with the reduction of salaries in aid of the superannuation fund. In cases where, from the depreciation of money, salaries had been increased, he saw no reason why they should not be reduced to their former level. He could not understand why a young man, going into a government office, was to be exempted from those chances to which men in other professions were subject? The arrangement proposed, certainly went too far; since it gave to a man superannuated, under some circumstances, the whole amount of his salary. In his opinion a plan of so much importance, ought not to be decided on in haste. The right hon. gentleman had, it appeared, placed all the salaries of individuals in classes. Now, he should like to know what increase had taken place since the year 1810. Generally speaking, he con-
 1028
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that nothing was further from his wish than the hurrying this measure forward. In his opinion, the best way would be to give leave to bring in a bill; after which, the various objections might be stated, in the course of its different stages.
 Mr. Marryat  condemned the system which was now acted on, in the various departments of the state, of regularly increasing the salaries of all the clerks, at certain fixed periods. This rule, which made them independent of their superiors, to whom they ought to be made to look up for advancement, destroyed all incentive to emulation, and exertion. It made no distinction, between merit and no merit—between activity and no activity. The existing system of superannuation was most important. The intended improvements did not remove his objections to that system. The question came to this—whether the plan of superannuation was not so radically bad, as to call for its abolition? To judge of this question correctly, they ought to be in possession of an account of all salaries granted to the civil servants of the Crown, and the superannuations voted to those servants, since the passing of the 50th of the late king. The right hon. gentleman had given a statement of the amount of superannuations in some departments, and had argued that those superannuations were only in the proportion of 9½ or 10½ per cent on the sums paid for actual service. But the account to which the right hon. gentleman had referred, by no means gave a fair view of the whole expense. A paper was laid on the table on the 13th of last month, giving an account of the superannuation, pensions, and salaries of the
 1029 l., l. l., l. l. l. 1030 1031
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the civil list of Ireland would be subject to the same regulation as that of England; and that the reduction of 10 per cent was also to extend to the salaries of foreign missions.
 Mr. Wynn  maintained, that the principle of superannuation was most important, and argued, that it was necessary to vest the heads of departments with the power of superannuating such servants of the public as had exhausted their best faculties in its service. Honourable gentlemen had spoken as if superannuation was an object of desire to those to whom it was granted. Now, the contrary was the case the faculties of individuals in general giving way long before they themselves discovered it. As a proof of this assertion, he quoted the case of the great lord Mansfield, who had held his situation five years longer than his talents fitted him for it. To show that there was no fair reason for presuming that the principle of superannuation would be abused, he stated, that thirty was the average number of years served by the persons now superannuated, and that sixty-five was the average of their respective ages. As to the plan of-making such clerks as had not laid up a provision for old age petitioners for the bounty of parliament, he condemned it in unqualified terms. Whilst the country continued a monarchy, its servants were hound to look to the Crown for remuneration: if they once looked to
 1038
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he was a friend to the principle of superannuation, but he would object to the proposed reductions, if they went to affect those who held situations as low as 50 l. l. l. l. l.
 The Solicitor General  said, it was perfectly obvious that the clause in the 25th George 2nd, by which it was enacted, that the holders of three per cents should have twelvemonths notice, had been virtually annulled by the voluntary sale or redemption of a much larger amount than 25,000,000 l. 1013
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that the question was simply this—whether the Bank ought to receive a per centage for executing a gill which entailed upon them no additional trouble? The hon. director had talked of the risk of forgeries; but the Aims annually to be paid by the Bank would be less under this bill than before, and the risk would be therefore less. He could see no reason, on any principle of equity, why this additional charge of 2,000 l. l. 1015
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could not see how such a clause could be proposed without previous communication with the Bank. Why the Bank were not to have as fair a claim to equitable consideration in managing the affairs of the public as any other body, he was at a loss to consider.
 Mr. Ricardo  supported the clause, because the Bank would have no additional trouble by the management of the public business under this bill.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that the House ought not to proceed without being quite clear on the point of law. He could not understand the meaning of the act, unless it was explained as requiring a  bona fide
 Mr. Tierney  was by no means satisfied with the explanation of the learned gentleman. The holders of five per cents had been expressly secured by act of parliament from being paid off, until 25,000,000 l.
 Mr. Tierney  said, it had been observed the other evening, that, by the 53rd of the late king, respecting the redemption of the land tax, the difficulties in the way of this subject had been in a great measure removed. Now, he was by no means satisfied that such was the case, and wished to hear the opinions of the learned gentleman opposite. The point complained of was, that government proposed to pay off the five per cents without the notice to which the holders of that stock were by law entitled. By the 37th of the late king, the holders of five per cents were rendered liable to reduction either into three or four per cents, according to their own option; but it was with the express condition that they should not be liable to any such reduction, until 25,000,000 l. bona fide
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he felt highly grateful for the communication made to the House, with respect to the gracious intention of his majesty. He would not however, pledge himself to support the whole plan. It. would be quite impossible for the House to pronounce an opinion until such time as the details were before them. There was a great deal, he thought in what had fallen from the hon. member for Sandwich, with respect to the principle of superannuation.
 Mr. Warre  inquired, whether the same reductions were to take place in Ireland as in England, and whether the allowances to foreign ambassadors were to be reduced? He thought it would be better, if the salaries afforded to public men during their service, were to be considered as their whole remuneration; and that they should regulate their expenditure accordingly.
 Mr. Hume  agreed, that the House ought not to decide on a proposition of so important a nature, until they were in full possession of all the particulars connected with it. What the hon. member had stated with respect to the Custom-house, was extremely important. At the time the 50th of the late king passed, the superannuations in that department were very moderate; but from that period they had increased in a ratio of about 10,000 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1032 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  then proposed a clause for the purpose of declaring, that the Bank should not derive any profit from the ma-
 1014 l. l: l. l.;
 Mr. P. Moore  consented to withdraw
 1039
 Mr. P. Moore  said, that as the committee was called upon to vote without evidence, and as he wished to have the papers printed before the House agreed to the resolutions, he should move that the chairman do report progress.
 Mr. Huskisson,  although he admitted that, by the 16th clause of the 37th of Geo. 3rd, the holders of five per cents were entitled not to be paid off until a twelvemonths' notice had been given to the holders of three per cents of the intention to pay off 25 millions of that stock; contended, that the much larger reduction that had taken place in the three per cents by the spontaneous consent of the holders of that stock rendered any such notice, before the re-payment of the five per cents unnecessary. He did not deny, that the reference in the 37th of Geo. 3rd, was to the provision in the 25th of Geo. 2nd that the holders of the three per cents should not be paid off without 12 months notice; but his argument was, that their having consented to be paid off; beyond the amount specified in the 37th Geo. 3rd, was equivalent to the condition of notice; and therefore that the holders of five per cents, in the present case, were virtually placed in the condition which the 37th of Geo. 3rd contemplated.
 Mr. Manning  said, that the Bank never hinted at any additional charge for managing these transfers. During the last 30 years, that corporation had never been in the habit of receiving any thing where stock was only transferred from one fund to another. But to say, that the Bank were not to derive their stipulated per centage upon the management of any additional capital, was to press for a total breach of the existing contract between the Bank and the public, the terms of which wore secured by a former act of parliament. If the proposed clause were adopted, the terms of that act would be violated, and a total change would be made in the constitution of the existing arrangement for managing the public business. The Bank received no remuneration for forgeries upon stock; and when they made the last arrangement with the public, the charge of interest agreed upon, comprehended the risk incurred by the Bank in the forgeries which he alluded to. This clause, if adopted, would release them from the compact; and on that ground he should oppose it.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he would concur in the resolution, as he understood it did not pledge him to support the details of the bill which might be founded upon it. He admitted that superannuation ought not to be on a scale which might induce gentlemen in office to retire, but at the same time it was proper, when an individual had spent the greater part of his life in the public service, that the public should not desert him When he was incapable of further service.
 Sir W. De Crespigny  said, that ministers were only taking off the lighter portion of the burthens of the country, whilst they allowed the heavier weight to press upon them.
 Colonel Davies  rose, in pursuance of notice, to call the attention of the House to a question which, whether it was considered in a constitutional or in a financial point of view, was well-deserving of that attention. In the first place, he could assure the House, that although on the orders his notice stood for a motion on "the Collection of the Revenue," he had not sufficient presumption to think of entering at present upon the whole of that extensive subject. His object was rather to open the way to a future discussion upon it; by impressing upon the House the necessity of assuming, on so important a branch of the public expenditure, the same salutary control which they exercised with respect to others. This would appear the more indispensible, when it was considered that the charges of collecting the public revenue amounted to no less a sum than 4,000,000 l. 1049 in transitu. 
 
 CUSTOMS. 
 Gross Produce. Rate per Cent. Increase since 1812. 
 1812 £.10,023,870 £.7 17 7 £. s. d. 
 1820 12,266,214 8 19 0 1 1 5 
 EXCISE. 
 1812 19,476,849 3 17 4 
 1820 29,342,898 3 18 1 0 0 9 
 STAMPS. 
 1812 5,428,811 2 16 7 
 1820 6,564,461 2 13 7 0 0 0 
 LAND AND ASSESSED TAXES. 
 1812 7,444,782 3 19 2 
 1820 7,849,768 4 2 7 0 3 5 
 POST-OFFICE. 
 1812 1,820;761 22 10 11 
 1820 1,894,631 25 3 2 2 12 3 1050 
 
 ONE SHILLING ON THE POUND PENSIONS AND SALARIES. 
 1812 19,313 1 12 8 
 1820 18,346 2 12 4 0 19 8 
 SIXPENCE ON THE POUND PENSIONS AND SALARIES. 
 1812 17,081 1 15 4 
 1820 8,684 2 16 4 1 1 0 
 HACKNEY COACHES. 
 1812 27,869 12 1 11 
 1820 26,374 15 12 7 3 10 8 
 HAWKERS AND PEDLARS. 
 1812 23,141 12 18 4 
 1820 29,360 17 15 7 4 17 3 1051 1052 l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. s. s. l. s. l. l. l. 1053 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 1054 l l. l. 1055 l. l. l. l. l. 1056 s. s. s. s., l. l. l. l. s. d. l., l. s.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the gallant officer had made numerous mistakes in his view of the public accounts, not only in the items, but in the mode and manner of their application. He had made a mistake of 3,262,000 l. l. 1057 l. s. d., l. s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. little "greatly l. 1058
 Sir C. Long  said, the hon. member had complained, that ministers had not reduced the number of the commissioners of customs. It was very true they had not done so, and for this reason—because they were all perfectly convinced that, if the commissioners were actively employed there was not one too many. He was sorry that the hon. member had complained of some of the commissioners, as unfit for the situation in which they were placed. He had alluded particularly to one of them who had formerly been in the military line. Now, he thought, there was not connected with any department of the public service, a more able or efficient man than the individual thus noticed by the hon. member. With respect to another of the commissioners (Mr. Stewart,) no gentleman could possibly be better recommended than he was. It had been said, that he received very considerable
 1061 l. l. l., l. l. 1062 data
 Colonel Davies  briefly replied, and contended, that the rate of collection which he had spoken of in 1812 was correct. However, without dwelling on these details, the main question was, why the four millions expended on the collection of the revenue should not be brought under the view of the House by estimates, as well as the other branches of the public service.
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) had given notice of a motion for an instruction to the committee respecting the power of the king to dismiss officers. He hoped he would not press the motion at present, as it did not, as a general question, excite that interest which it deserved. It was the complaint, that in the House as well as out, it was the disposition to treat lightly constitutional questions in comparison with money matters. But in those times, when the members of that House were not so numerous, 152 had voted for the motion of 1734, while in the other House no less than 62 peers voted on the same side. But there was not at that time such a general indifference to constitutional questions, as unhappily prevailed at present. The gentlemen on his side of the House were on this occasion reduced to a sort of select society [a laugh]. The gentlemen on the other side might laugh and jeer, but he expressed most unfeignedly his surprise and regret, that the distinguished members with whom he had usually the honour to act, should have been absent on an occasion so deserving of their support. But in consequence of this absence, and in the hope of the presence of his hon. friends upon a future occasion, he earnestly recommended his hon. friend to postpone his intended motion.
 Colonel Wood  thought the proposed addition was a round-about way of bringing on the question which the hon. mover had said he should decline bringing on that night. He should be happy to meet the question upon constitutional grounds;
 1065
 Colonel Wood  said, he was as jealous of a standing army as his hon. friend, and regarded the prerogative as a check upon the army. The only true dangers which had occurred in our history, was when the army was severed from the Crown, and power was placed in the hands of the army. He saw no reason for such a quantum of suspicion of officers in that House. They sat on both sides. To receive the thanks of parliament in their place there, was the best reward which they could receive for a service in which, God knew, they got little wealth, though they might gather some laurels. There was no reason for excluding them any more than gentlemen of the navy or the law.
 The Solicitor General  said, it was clear
 1066
 Colonel Davies  said, there were many instances in which officers who had been acquitted by courts martial had been afterwards dismissed. He instanced the case of the officers of the 85th, who having brought forward charges against their commanding officer, and failed to prove them, were dismissed; and the commanding officer was himself dismissed afterwards, although the court-martial had acquitted him.
 Colonel Davies  said, his argument was, that the commanding officer had himself been dismissed, after having been acquitted by the court martial.
 Sir F. Burdett  begged to protest against this mode of making a sort of personal appeal, which was both contrary to the Orders of the House, and inconsistent with the freedom of debate. The hon. officer had expressed great indignation, because the hon. member for Aberdeen had called the officers of the army slaves. Now, he (Sir. F. B.) had not the slightest hesitation in declaring his perfect conviction of the propriety of this language. It was language which our forefathers had held—it was an argument which had been frequently used by constitutional lawyers against the expediency of a standing army. The great objection to a standing army was, that it had a direct tendency to make the officers of the army slaves. The hon. officer might assume as high a tone as he pleased as to the purity of the motives which influenced the conduct of officers of the army—he might contend, that they were free from all undue prepossessions, and inaccessible to those motives of interest which operated on the rest of mankind; but he (sir F. B.) concurred in the sentiments, and would therefore vindicate the language of the hon. member for Aberdeen. He agreed with his hon. friend, that a standing army, and every thing connected with a standing army, was fraught with danger to the constitution and to the liberties of the people, and he would a thousand times rather die in his seat than submit to its unconstitutional control. Standing up as he did for the constitution, he had no hesitation in declaring, that a standing army was a gross infringement of every principle of that constitution. That it was such an infringement, and that it would sooner or later lead to the destruction of the constitution, was the Opinion of a person, who must be admitted to be a man of some genius even by the side of the learned solicitor-general—he alluded to Montesquieu, in his book on the Spirit of Laws—it was an opinion held by the soundest lawyers, and the ablest constitutional writers this country had produced. It was to be found in
 1068 1069 euthanasia, 1070 1071
 Mr. Bennet  said, his hon. friend had not applied the term "slaves," to the army tauntingly or sneeringly. Certainly the language of the gallant officer was entirely new.
 Mr. Bennet  said, his objection was not to the word "dared," but to the words "foul source," which had been used by the gallant member and which he trusted he would take an opportunity of explaining.
 Mr. Bennet  informed the Speaker, that when the House had been in a Committee, a dispute had arisen betwixt two hon. members, of which, as he was not in the chair, he could not probably be supposed to be aware. One of those hon. members was his hon. friend, the member for Montrose, the other the member for Cambridge; and he regretted to say that in consequence of expressions used by his hon. friend, the other hon. member had made a retort, couched in a manner which as he was not then present, he could not designate. A subsequent explanation had been made by his hon. friend, which had been accepted by the House. A similar explanation had been made by the other hon. member, of the expression he had used; as far as the house was concerned, he might say he had made an apology; but not one word had he said with regard to the person towards whom those expressions were directed. As it was not the custom in that House, or elswhere, for such language to pass without a retractation, or ulterior consequences, he hoped some means would be taken by the House to stop any further proceedings.
 Mr. Wetherell  said, that if the amendment meant nothing beyond the carrying into effect the clause to which it was attached, it was clearly superfluous. But, if it indirectly aimed at the prerogative of the Crown to dismiss officers, let the question be fairly met, as the hon. member for Bristol had proposed.
 Colonel Trench  said, that the expression used by the hon. member for Aberdeen had certainly appeared to him to be coarse and foul-mouthed. He had answered it in a moment of indignation, and as he was not often in the habit of addressing the House, he feared he had inadvertently gone beyond the rules of debate. He apologized to the House for having done so, but he should not carry his apology any further.
 Colonel Trench  flung back the insinuations of the hon. member for Aberdeen, to the foul source from whence they sprung. He was surprised that any member should dare to throw out such an aspersion against a body of men, who surely were not unfitted to sit in that House, because they had devoted years pf their lives to the service of their country.
 Mr. Bright  said, that whatever might be the reasons which induced others to be absent or present, he looked at this question as one which had received serious attention in better periods of our history, and he strongly wished that the House would return to its former character, and examine the foundation of our institutions in the spirit of those institutions. He had been taught to entertain great suspicion of a standing army. However he might differ from gentlemen who were now absent or present, in a most sacred regard for the constitution be yielded to none. The right of dismissing officers, without cause assigned, had been, on a former occasion, treated as one of the prero-
 1064
 Mr. Hume  said, that although he had known a question of as great importance as the present met by as empty benches, he would not persist against the advice of his friends, but would bring the subject forward on the bringing up of the report.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the 29th clause of the bill respected courts martial, and to that clause he should move an amendment, which would confine courts-martial to the forms there prescribed, and declare "that no punishment whatever should be inflicted but such as was agreeable to the sentence of a court-martial, and to the forms of the act."
 Mr. Hume  thought, that the grounds of objection stated by the hon. secretary, to the motion of his gallant friend would apply with equal force to every motion where returns might be called for. Nothing was more necessary than to have returns made to that House. If returns were regularly made, the enormous increase under the various heads of public expenditure would not have taken place. To illustrate that assertion, he would state that in 1805 the amount of collecting the revenue for Scotland was 17,000 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l., l. 1059 l., l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1060 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was not convinced by the argument of the solicitor-general, but he had no wish at present to agitate any point which would involve the question of the prerogative. The gallant colonel would remember that if an army, not under the control of the king, had interfered with the members of that House, and with the privileges of the people, the same might be done by one under absolute control. Its officers were perfectly dependant on the Crown, and, if he might use the phrase, were even the slaves of the Crown, in consequence of this power of dismissal.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that according to his apprehension, the explanation of the hon. officer, notwithstanding the reservation it contained, was not meant to be applicable to him in a hostile sense. For his own part, he felt perfectly satisfied, and would have prevented his hon. friend from troubling the House, had he been aware of his intention.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that the public, whatever might be the result, were highly indebted to the hon. member for the attention which he had bestowed on this subject.
 Mr. Creevey  said, he had beard the hon. and gallant officer make use of the
 1072
 Mr. W. Courtenay  contended, that some ground ought to have been shown for the necessity of the amendment. What grievances were there which the amendment remedied? If it meant to prevent the dismissal of officers, it was the proposition which had been postponed, in another form; if it did not, it was unnecessary.
 Mr. W. Williams  felt, that the dependance of the officers of the army upon the will of the Crown, or that of the minister was so obvious, from the recent dismissal of a gallant officer, without any cause made out, or trial instituted, that he should conceive it his duty, if no more competent person undertook the task, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the exclusion of all military officers from seats in that House, and also from the right of voting for any person becoming a candidate for a seat in that House; for he thought that many persons were excluded from those privileges who might fairly be deemed more independent than the officers of the army were now become, in consequence of the conduct of the Crown, or its ministers.
 Mr. W. Williams  asked, whether his majesty had the power of depriving a barrister of his rank, at his sole will and pleasure? There was no analogy in the cases. If the army had the power to destroy or uphold the constitution, it ought not to be under the control of any individual however high. They might turn against the people as well as against the Crown.
 The Speaker  commended the course which the hon. member had taken, with such an apprehension on his mind as he had described. With respect to the circumstance to which he had called his attention, he begged to state, that he was present in the House as a member during the time it occurred. He was sorry the impression left on the mind of the hon. member was such as he described; but
 1073
 Mr. Chetwynd  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to consolidate and amend all the acts on the subject of Vagrancy. In framing the bill, if be were permitted to introduce it, he would take for a ground-work his bill of last session. When he informed the House that during the last 300 years, 49 acts on the subject of vagrancy had been passed, of which 27 were now in partial operation, he thought he stated a sufficient ground for his motion. More than two centuries ago, Edward 6th had expressed a wish that the superfluous acts on the subject of vagrancy should be abolished, and that those which contained useful regulations should be combined in one statute. If such a measure was necessary at that period, how much more necessary was it now, when the Statutebook had increased more than twenty-fold? The hon. gentleman then proceeded to state the subordinate objects of his bill, in addition to the principle one; namely, the consolidation of all the various acts on the subject of vagrancy. He divided vagrants into three classes: 1st, the idle and disorderly; 2nd, the vagrant; and 3rd, the incorrigible rogue. Another object of the bill would be to specify the various punishments, and to adapt them to the present state of society. One of the best magistrates of the present day, Mr. Colquhoun, had observed, that in legislating on an offence in a free country, it was necessary to consult the feelings of the people; because, if a magistrate thought the punishment provided for an offence too severe, it was impossible for him to inflict it. He would, therefore, in the measure which he intended to propose, take care that the punishment should not be disproportionate to the offence. The regulation and amendment of the present system of passing vagrants would form another object of the bill. He had been told by some magistrates, that the system of passing vagrants might be al-
 1048 l.
 Sir I. Coffin  said, that when the hon. member for Weymouth brought in his bill to exclude officers of the army from the House, he hoped it would include officers of the navy, that they might all go out together.
 Sir I. Coffin  would recommend a little modesty to the mover of the amendment, if he meant that the final approbation of the sentence should not be left to the commander-in-chief.
 Sir I. Coffin  begged to say a few words in consequence of the allusion made by name to a relative of his, Mr. Lyne. On the return of his relative to this country, he (sir I. C.) had taken him up to the Treasury. He was then quite blind, and offered to surrender the 2,500 l.
 Sir M. Nightingall  said, he was himself no slave, and did not believe that the officers of the army were slaves. He thought they had the interest of the constitution at heart as much as any set of men in the country.
 Lord Palmerston  said, it was then evident that the amendment raised the question of the prerogative.
 Lord Palmerston  thought it no part of the rules of debate to permit gentlemen on one side the House to use such expressions as to them seemed convenient, and to forbid those on the other side from using strong language in their defence. The hon. baronet was in the habit of giving the House the result of his private studies; but he had omitted to state, in his quotations from Blackstone, the paragraph which identified the standing army with the British constitution. However dangerous might be the existence of a standing army, it would be infinitely more dangerous to have no army at all; and the amount of existing danger, whatever it might be, would be increased by the measure suggested by the hon. member for Aberdeen. If the army was not to be elected into a fourth estate, it must be placed under some species of control. The hon. baronet objected to that control being vested in the Crown. Was parliament, then, to have the control of the army? Wherever popular assemblies had attempted to command a military force, the thing had usually ended by that force commanding them. The observation of the hon. baronet respecting "artificial Mamelukes," referred, he supposed to the children of the Military Asylum; but the children of that establishment were allowed to choose their own professions, and the majority of them had actually chosen civil pursuits. With regard to the military rules of other governments, he apprehended that the king of Prussia had often exercised the power in question.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that no punishment could be inflicted but such as was legal, under the act; therefore the amendment was unnecessary.
 Lord Palmerston  said, the dismissal of the officers who had prosecuted groundless charges was no argument on the present question.
 Mr. Marryat  presented a petition from the House of Assembly of Lower Canada, which contained a simple, but melancholy recital of plain facts and official documents. The petitioners state, that within the last year the wages of labour, the prices of the produce of the soil, and the value of landed property in that province, have diminished one half; that the amount of the exports has decreased from near 800,000 l. l.; l. l.; l. l. 1074 s. 1075
 Mr. Bennet,  of Wilts, opposed the prayer of the petition, on the ground that it was as necessary to protect the English agriculturist, as it could be to relieve the Canadian corn grower. When corn might be imported into this country, large quantities of American grain had been sent to Canada, and thence smuggled into England; so that the restraint now complained of the petitioners had brought upon themselves. He wished to give the colonies all equit-
 1076
 Sir T. Lethbridge  quite agreed, that if Mr. Hunt's punishment had been aggravated by the treatment he had received,
 1080
 The Solicitor General  was anxious to state, in explanation of the repeated allusion which had been made to the part taken by two of the judges respecting the regulations for Ilchester gaol, that he had seen both the original and the altered rules. In the original, there were certainly three or four very harsh regulations, which the judges deemed improper, and had disallowed; but, neither in point of law, nor in point of feeling, could he see any thing objectionable in the rules now adopted.
 Lord Normanby  rose, to bring forward his motion for reducing the number of persons filling the Office of Joint Postmaster-General. Difficult as he at all times felt it to address that House, he should feel himself still more embarrassed if he thought it was for a moment supposed, that he was actuated by any invidious or personal motive on the present occasion. But he felt cheered by the reflection, that his only motive was a sense of duty to his country. He trusted that he should shew to the House, that this was as clear a question of reduction as any which could be brought under the consideration of parliament. It was matter of much satisfaction to him to know, that tile reduction which he was about to propose, did not involve any of those dis-
 1083 1084 1085 1086 l. 1087 1088
 Mr. Robinson  said, he could not take so narrow a view of the present question as had been taken by his noble friend; and must confess that the speech of his noble friend had produced no other impression on his mind than to confirm his previous impressions. His noble friend had said, that he did not propose, in bringing forward his present motion, to interfere with other offices; but, an acquiescence on the part of the House in the present motion—a motion which Lad been brought forward in consequence of the success of a motion made by an hon. baronet the other night—would, he had no doubt, lead, in various other instances, to a similar proposition founded on similar grounds. And, that brought distinctly before them this principle—whether the influence of the Crown ought or ought not to be diminished? He knew it was easy to turn into ridicule any particular opposition to any
 1089 1090
 Mr. Bennet  said, he felt no disposition to retract the expressions he had applied to the visiting magistrates. The censure be had cast upon them was justified by the report, and he should feel it to be his duty, if the subject were not taken up by others, to move an address to the Crown for their removal. Why had they not inquired into the case of the man who was thrown in irons into a solitary cell? Why had they not taken the trouble to look over the prison books, and inquire into the cause of their being so interlined, mutilated, and defaced? God forbid that he should pass a sweeping censure upon the whole magistracy of the county. It was the visiting magistrates of whom he complained.
 Sir John Sebright  said, that the noble marquis (Salisbury), who was the second post-master-general, had been for a number of years lord lieutenant of his county, and had discharged the duties of that office with honour to himself, and most beneficially for the county. Having as a magistrate acted under the noble marquis, he felt towards him the utmost respect; but he was placed there to discharge a great public duty. Private feelings, in that House, were not to give way to public principle. At a time like the present, when distress prevailed to an extent unexampled, he felt it to be his bounden duty to vote for every reduction of the public expenditure, that was consistent with the safety of the state. It had not been contended that two post-masters-general were necessary. He doubted whether even one was necessary. His own opinion was, that that able and intelligent officer, Mr. Freeling, who had discharged his public duty in a manner so beneficial to the country, would be able to do the business of the post-masters-general, without any other assistance.
 Mr. Fremantle  said, he could not, consistently with his views of the safety and honour of the country, assent to the proposition. He could not consent to pull down the ancient institutions of the country—those institutions under which the country had so long prospered. No man could say, that, if the motion were acceded to, the abolition of the office would contribute one iota to the removal of the distress complained of. And yet; if conceded, it would have the effect of breaking down and destroying the system of government piecemeal. It would naturally be said, "cut down the salaries of all the offices of government, and let them no longer be filled by noblemen or gentlemen of influence or rank, but by clerks, who would be accountable to that House." The question had, he regretted to say, been taken up on narrow grounds, and the arguments therefore were the more fallacious. It was incumbent on the noble mover, to spew in what manner the present system of the postmastership was dangerous or injurious. There certainly existed a necessity for control in this department, and that control was as effectually vested in the postmasters, as in any other public boards. He concluded by observing, that the measure was improvident, and would prove highly dangerous as a precedent.
 Mr. Bankes  said, he had that night heard principles advanced which, during all the time that he had had a seat in that House, he had never heard propounded with an equal degree of daring. The doctrine he had formerly collected from what he had conceived to be, at the time, he best and most weighty authorities in the House was, that the Crown was intitled to a large and legitimate influence in all those offices that were more immediately connected with, what he might call, the monarchical part of our constitution. This influence was exercised by the Crown's appointment to a large body of such offices as were necessary to the discharge of the various duties that devolved upon that department of the state which he spoke of; and he always considered, that these should be placed, even more than they had been, within the immediate disposal and pleasure of the Crown. He thought that the House ought not to interfere with them, except in cases which involved some constitutional question. They were the legitimate appointments of the Crown, and they ought to be retained as long as they were necessary; but beyond this, the principle ought not to be carried. His hon. friend who had just spoken had said, that the noble mover, must show, not only that the office proposed to be reduced was useless, but that it was an office of influence. But it was sufficient for him to show that it was useless; and, indeed, the  onus 1096 1097
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that his noble friend who had commenced the present discussion, had treated the question with reference solely to the duties of the particular office. He had been followed by his right hon. friend, who had met the question on the general ground of principle, and had declared that the proposition was  ab initio 1098 l.; l.; l.; l. l. 1099 l., 1100 l., 1101 1102 1103
 Mr. Wynn  said, he had supported the bills of 1812 and 1813 for diminishing the influence of the Crown, because a power to reward public services was substituted. Much obloquy had been previously thrown upon sinecures, and it was considered advisable to provide for public services in another mode. He admitted the merits of the secretary of the Post-office; but he could not agree to entrust so extensive a public department to his sole management; especially as a political connexion was necessary between ministers and the higher public officers. He believed it was by no means the wish of the people to strip the Crown of its legitimate influence, which was the best safeguard of the constitution.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he agreed with his right hon. friend who spoke second in the debate, that this ques-
 1109 1110 l.
 Lord Normanby  shortly replied. After his majesty's ministers had brought down the King's gracious message, announcing his majesty's intention of making a great sacrifice out of his personal income, it was rather extraordinary that they should take so early an opportunity of making the Crown the means of defending a piece of mere ministerial patronage.
 Alderman C. Smith  trusted, that, on the present occasion, every loyal man would rally round the throne, to protect its just and constitutional privileges. If the House yielded to the present application, he should expect, that, one by one, each of the ministerial offices of the Crown would be abolished: and, under this impression, he should vote against the motion.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought the House bound to attend to the complaints of the petitioners. The Canadians suffered serious hardships which ought to be removed; they complained, 1st. That we did not take timber from them on the same terms as we did before. 2nd, that we refused to admit their corn. And 3dly, that they were subjected to the inconvenience of purchasing all articles in our markets. As to the first, we had a right to go to any market we pleased for our timber; but, on that very principle, the second cause of grievance ought to be done away, and their corn ought to have access to our markets. With respect to the forcing the colonies to purchase in our markets, when they might be more conveniently supplied elsewhere, it was an inconvenience to which they ought not to be exposed. He would always oppose that principle, not only as applied to Canada, but to every other colony.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that no person unacquainted with the Canadas could form a just idea of the contrast which their present situation presented to their former prosperity, or of the consequences that must inevitably result from the continued restrictions on their trade. Last year the alteration in the timber duties bore heavily on that branch of their commerce; and for the first time the operation of the corn laws prevented the introduction into this market of the other staple article of their produce. They were also, if report spoke true, threatened with the loss of their West India trade. If they were not permitted to send their produce to this market, while it was excluded from many others by the operation of the navigation laws, it was impossible they could long pay for the manufactures and supplies we compelled them to receive solely from this country; and he did hope some relaxation of the present restriction, and, above all, the admission of their corn, might be conceded, without risk of injury to the agricultural interests.
 Mr. Sumner  said, that at a late county meeting he had been met with a general cry of "retrenchment—unsparing retrenchment"! He was told that this was the popular cry throughout the country. But as to popular clamour, there was
 1092
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he was not disposed too much to retrench the influence of the Crown; but, concurring, as he did, in many of the observations which had fallen from hon. gentlemen on that subject, he must still admit the necessity of the present motion. As far as he could understand the speech of the right hon. gentleman, he did not even attempt to say that the office of the second post-master-general was at all necessary. The right hon. gentleman had talked of the influence of the Crown, and of the necessity of pre-
 1091 l.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he was anxious to state the reasons for his vote on the present question. The question had been treated by the noble mover with reference simply to the particular office which he had called on the House to abolish, on account of its inefficiency and needlessness. He (Mr. W.) could not confine himself to this view of the ques-
 1094 1095
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, he had been prevented, by unavoidable absence, from making a few observations, which he would now take the liberty of addressing to the House. In the first place, he was of opinion that the charges which had been made against the government of Ilchester gaol, both by Mr. Hunt, and the hon. alderman (Wood), had been fully and clearly established, and that a case of great hardship and oppression had been made out. He found from the evidence taken before the commissioners, that the gaoler had resorted to the extraordinary and cruel proceeding of applying a blister to the head of a prisoner named Thomas Gardiner, by way of punishment. The treatment to which another prisoner named Hillyer, was subjected, was also most unjustifiable. It appeared that this unfortunate man was loaded with double irons on his arms and legs, and the chain by which they were connected was so short that it was almost impossible for him to stand upright. A still more striking instance of improper treatment was exhibited in the case of a female, named Mary Cuer. This prisoner was confined in irons with her child, in a cold and damp cell during a period of frost and snow. In consequence of the treatment she had received, and the situation in which she was placed, the unfortunate woman was unable to afford any nourishment to her child, other than that which could be derived from bread and water, with the latter of which articles she was supplied in a bucket. This was a most
 1078 1079
 Mr. Hume  said, he had on a former occasion said, that several of the magistrates of Somersetshire had shown themselves destitute of the feelings of humanity, after having carefully read over the report of the commissioners, he felt himself unable to alter that opinion.
 Mr. Denison  said, he would never use, out of that House, any words which he was ashamed to utter in it. He begged leave to repeat, in his place, and before his hon. colleague that he ever would be an advocate for "retrenchment—unsparing retrenchment." A right hon. gentleman had said, that the influence of the Crown had not increased. In his (Mr. D's.) opinion, it had increased, and would continue to increase; seeing that the dis-
 1093
 Mr. Dickinson  observed, that the magistrates had certainly been much deceived with respect to the character and conduct of the gaoler, but that they shared the delusion with the hon. member for Weymouth, who had stated in his account of the gaol, that it was impossible to observe his conduct without admiration. It must be considered as highly creditable to the magistrates, that on the first accusation by Mr. Hunt, they gave him every means of establishing the truth of his allegations. He was convinced the magistrates of Somerset were as incapable of inhumanity and tyranny, as any of those whom he had the honour to address.
 Mr. Peel  said, he had read the report with that regret which any man must feel, at discovering the particular instances of misconduct alluded to. No man could read without indignation the treatment inflicted upon three of the prisoners, on the head of one of whom a blister had been put, not for the purpose of administering relief or consolation, but to augment the punishment of an individual for refractory conduct. Such an instance of cruelty could not be read without indignation, not only against the person applying for the blister, but the medical man who had administered it. He did not ask the House to withhold their unqualified censure, from those who had so justly incurred it; but he only called upon them to suspend their judgment upon the whole case, until the evidence was presented. With respect to Mr. Hunt, the circumstances must, indeed, be very special and strong, which, in the present instance, would induce him to discuss it; particularly as the subject would in a few days come before them in the shape of a specific motion; but he had no objection to state the result of the inquiries he had made into Mr. Hunt's present condition in the prison. Mr. Hunt occupied two rooms in the gaol which had a northern aspect; the adjoining ward was appropriated for the recep-
 1081
 Mr. W. Smith  allowed that Canada cost us a great deal of money: but that made it the more necessary to take such steps as did not interfere with its improvement. He was convinced that if the province was made easy and comfortable with respect to its commercial relations, we need
 1077
 Mr. Wilmot  was fully convinced of the reality of the distress complained of, but he must remark, that there was nothing in the measures lately adopted that could produce that distress. He thought it desirable that this petition should be referred to the special notice of the agricultural committee.
 Sir I. Coffin  thought it would have been a good thing for this country, if Canada had been sunk to the bottom of the sea. It cost this country 500,000 l. l. au Diable,
 Sir I. Coffin  observed, that the postmasters-general did not do any duty, and, therefore, he thought they should be both abolished.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that if the House had been occupied with the only question which the noble mover had introduced to their notice—and on that question alone had they to decide—he certainly should have consulted his own convenience and the state of his health by giving a hearty and conscientious, but a silent vote, in favour of the noble lord's proposition. Other questions, however, and of far greater magnitude, had been introduced by the right hon. gentleman who spoke second in the debate —questions, he would say, of as great magnitude and importance, as were ever brought before the House of Commons. Novelties, as he conceived them, in constitutional doctrine, had been boldly advanced—never, before, indeed, had they been avowed so distinctly and unequivocally in a public assembly — novelties which struck nearly at the root of the British constitution—novelties, which, if the House acted on them, would be more injurious to their estimation in the minds of the people of this kingdom, than any measure they had been ever induced to adopt. He agreed with the hon. member for Corfe Castle, that on all former occasions, when reformation was attempted in that House, particucularly that of 1782, by Mr. Burke, the principle of keeping up useless offices in order to support the influence of the Crown never once reared its head. At that time the whole question was decided on a very narrow ground—"Are these offices useless, or are they beneficial to the public?" There was one exception—the great sinecures of the state. And why? Because they constituted the only provision for the retired servants of the Crown. The right hon. gentleman placed the whole defence of sinecures on that ground. But, could be argue, with any degree of consistency, that sinecures should be continued, when pensions were granted in their stead? He did, however, so argue the question. He would not only have pensions but sinecures for retired officers. The right hon. gentleman who had last spoken had showed a great deal of skill and dexterity in the arrangement of his topics. He had given great space and latitude to the unimportant part of his argument, and had passed rapidly over that which most demanded attention; because he was
 1104 1105 1106 l. 1107 1108
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, that having in his place voted that two junior lords of the Admiralty were unnecessary, he could not consistently oppose the present motion. He considered the second post-master-general entirely useless; and with respect to the influence of the Crown, he did not think that the influence or the dignity of the Crown, in a loyal and well-disposed country like this required to be bolstered up by half a dozen useless placemen. If these two officers of the public would be content to take the duty watch and watch, or take it by alternate three months, and receive only one post-master-general's salary, he could have no objection to accommodate them. If not, he must vote for his noble friend's motion.
 Sir R. Wilson  presented a petition from a person of the name of Joseph Healy. The object of it was, to implore the House to address his majesty, in order to obtain a remission of the remaining part of Mr. Hunt's sentence. The petitioner had been arrested at the same time with Mr. Hunt, and was sentenced, for what he did not conceive to be an offence, to an imprisonment of one year in Lincoln Castle. The manner in which the petitioner spoke of his treatment whilst under confinement formed an agreeable contrast with the descriptions which the house had lately so repeatedly heard with respect to the usage of Mr. Hunt in Ilchester gaol.
 Sir John Newport  said, the noble lord had avowed that it was not his intention to maintain that useless offices should be kept up for the support of the influence of the Crown, and yet his whole speech had been a contradiction to that avowal. This office was admitted to be quite
 1111
 Captain Moberly  said, that the motion of his hon. relative was for a committee, for the purpose of simplifying and better arranging the public accounts; while the amendment only went to the investigation of past errors.
 Mr. Maberly  rose, to make his promised motion for the simplifying and better arrangement of the Public Accounts. He began by observing, with reference to the public accounts on the table, that they were when compared one with the other, full of errors; and he had to claim the indulgence of the House, while he pointed out the dissimilar nature of returns, which, strictly speaking, ought to have been the same, as they related to the same heads of account. One set of accounts, had been laid on the table by the noble marquis opposite. There was, the House would recollect, and account ordered to be annually laid on the table, on or before the 25th of March, but it was not, by the act which rendered that account necessary, ordered that a summary of balance-sheet of the income and expenditure should accompany it. There was, however, in the last year's act, a clause which required such a balance-sheet with the January accounts, and an abstract of it was delivered in up to the 5th Jan. 1822. There was also an abstract of the nett receipt and expenditure of the country up to the 5th of Jan. 1821. He should prove that these accounts were not correct, as compared with each other; for instance the balance-sheet account of the noble marquis, presented on the 15th of Feb. last, differed from the regular annual finance accounts of the year 1821, and the chancellor of the exchequer's account differed from both, in many essential particulars. In the finance accounts of the United Kingdom for the years ending the 5th of Jan. 1821, the first page purported to be an account of the ordinary revenues and extraordinary resources constituting the public income of the United Kingdom of
 1115 l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l.; l., l. l. l., l. l. s., l. l. l., l. l.; l. l.; l. l.; 1116 l.; l. l.; l. l. l.; l. l. s. d.: l. s. d. l. l.; l.; l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l.; 1117 l.; l., l. l. l., l.; l. l., l.; l., l.; l. l.; l., l. l. l., l. l., l., l. l. s. d. 1118
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the comparison on which the hon. gentleman had proceeded was entirely founded on a mistake. The account presented by the noble marquis on the 15th Feb., was not the same as the other account; and ought not to have been compared with it. The annual finance account purported to be the payments into the exchequer, while the other was the account of the nett income available for the public service. The hon. gentleman then went through the different items of the two accounts, in order to show, that they did not, and never were intended, to represent the same results. He did not mean to contend, that a committee might not be most usefully employed in looking into the manner of rendering the public accounts, and, indeed the chancellor of the exchequer had already given notice of his intention to move for such a committee. Perhaps a better plan might be devised; but the balance-sheet form was adopted at the suggestion of an hon. member (Mr. Ricardo), and was deemed to be the most compendious way of stating the accounts. He was anxious that a committee should be appointed to consider in what respects the items of the public expenditure or charge, as exhibited in the annual accounts for the year 1821, differed from the financial statement which had been made to the House on the 15th of February by his noble friend. He felt great satisfaction in saying, that that statement had been ascertained to be most correct in all its important bearings. He should propose, therefore, as an amendment to the motion of the hon. gentleman, "That a select committee be appointed to consider from what causes the payments into the exchequer, as exhibited in the accounts of the public income, ending 5th January, 1821, appears not to agree with the account of the nett public income of the United Kingdom, in the year ending 5th January, 1821, as
 1119
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as it had been conceded, that the differences in the accounts were reconcilable, he had no objection to the whole question being postponed, to afford an opportunity for the suggestion of a better plan. He would himself name the 18th of April for bringing the subject before the House.
 Mr. Calcraft  considered that his hon. friend had clearly established the case upon which he set out. He, therefore, thought it scarcely worth while to go into a committee for the mere purpose of elucidating mistakes.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that his object in bringing forward the motion was solely to devise a plan by which the public accounts might be rendered more simple, intelligent, and satisfactory. He would, however, after what had fallen, withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Wynn  said, it would be idle to enter into any defence of the board of control, after the able speeches of the hon. secretary and of the right hon. gentleman who had lately filled the office of president. He himself had not been in office more than a month; but, judging from what he had seen, he could say, that the statement of his hon. friends was completely borne out by facts. As the hon. mover who occupied the place of secretary in 1806, had kept silence fir fifteen years on the inefficiency of the offices which he now proposed to abolish, he must have some-reason for now speaking out, which he had not before. That object was easily guessed at. He had employed his motion merely as a peg on which to hang his attack upon him. In pursuance of that design, the hon. mover had stated that his (Mr. W's.) accession to office was a purchase of family interest. To answer seriously a charge of this kind would be to acknowledge the probability of its truth; and therefore he would not say one word on the subject. He had now sat in the House for twenty-five years, and he called upon hon. gentlemen who had observed his conduct to say whether he had given ground for such insinuations. The hon. gentleman, in order to make out the charge of sacrificing principle to place, had mentioned his (Mr. W's.) vote against the salt-tax before he came into office, and his support of it on a late occasion; but, was there any thing inconsistent in voting against a tax at one time, and for it another? He was glad of that cheer, because it showed that he was understood by those who with him, before the year, 1806, opposed the property tax, and who afterwards preserved and increased it. In the case in question, he thought the salt tax objectionable, and voted for its repeal. He still retained the same opinion; but he was prevented from giving his vote, by circumstances which
 1162 l. l.
 Lord Binning  merely wished to state a word in answer to the charge of the hon. member for Weymouth, who had said, that a dispatch from the Board of Directors, which would have disgraced Chris-
 1163
 Mr. Secretary Peel,  in moving for a committee on the police of the metropolis, said, he should abstain from discussing or even, giving an opinion upon the subject. He trusted that the House would not attribute his forbearance to any thing like insensibility to the importance of the question; it was the paramount importance of the subject, and its intimate connexion with the criminal jurisprudence of the country, which induced him, (adverting to short time he had been in office) to doubt his competency to treat it as might be expected. Any opinion which he could at present offer to the House
 1166
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the public accounts ought to be so stated, that every member, upon referring to them, might be able to make a balance-sheet from them, and see at once what was the actual revenue, and what the expenditure of the Country.
 Mr. Canning  said, he rose under the same necessity that had called up the right hon. gentleman opposite, allusion having been made by the hon. mover to him (Mr. C.) and to his conduct of that office which he had recently had the honour of filling for five years. He felt it his duty to say of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney), that at no time, so far as his retrospect carried him back, was the office of president of the board of control more efficiently discharged, than it had been by the right hon. gentleman. In many points referred to they both concurred; and with respect to some in which they disagreed, the change of circumstances, the progress of time, and the increase of business in the office, would, he believed, account satisfactorily for the difference. What he should have to state on the subject of the motion would be, like what the right hon. gentleman had stated, more in the shape of testimony than of argument. But before
 1146 Habetis confitentem reum 1147 Me, me, adsum qui non feci," "qui nil feci" l. penetralia 1148 1149 1150 "Pursued the triumph, and partook the gale;" 1151 1152 1153 l. l. l. l. l. 1154 1155 "And some he paid with port, and some with praise." 1156 1157 1158 1159 argumentum ad invidiam "See no contiguous palace rear its head
"To mock the meanness, of his humble shed," privilegium odiosum 1160
 Mr. Tierney  said, he felt no wish to conceal any opinion he entertained on this subject, or to withhold from the House any information he could give, with respect to the office in question. He was as ignorant of the nature of the motion, until within the last two or three hours, as the hon. secretary himself, and therefore he was as much taken by surprise and had as little time to prepare himself as that hon. gentleman. But, however taken by surprise, or however unprepared, he would detail every thing which happened while he was in that office, with as strict an attention to truth as possible. The present motion seemed to embrace two objects; one, to inquire how far it was necessary to continue the number of members now in the board of control; the other, assuming the fact that so many ought to remain, to consider whether it was proper that the same number should continue to have seats in parliament? These appeared to him to be the two objects of the motion; and he thought they were extremely fair ones. As to the importance of the board of control, no person respected that institution more than he did, or was better acquainted with the weight of business that pressed upon it. But the question for the House was, whether those duties required three commissioners, or could be performed by a more limited number? And, so far as his experience went in 1807, he declared upon his honour, that he did not think three commissioners were necessary; for during the
 1142 1143 1144 l. l. 1145 l.
 Mr. Buxton  wished to say only a few words in praise of the conduct of the
 1161
 Mr. Hume  hoped his hon. friend would withdraw his motion, and that the chancellor of the exchequer would move for the appointment of his committee. That committee was of a much more general description than the one proposed by his hon. friend; and he thought it would be a pity to appoint another committee with a view to matters of comparatively little consequence.
 Dr. Phillimore  rose, only to repel a charge against his character; and he trusted that the personal attack of the hon. mover would not lead him to be personal in return. He must, however, tell that hon. member, that before he again threw out such insinuations, and indulged in such charges, he should examine more strictly the grounds on which they were bottomed. He was inconsistent, it was said, and he had cost the country a million and a half of money. Now, how was that charge made out? The hon. gentleman answered, that he had voted for a repeal of the salt tax before he came into office, and against that repeal when in office. The statement was incorrect. He had never voted for an immediate repeal, though the charge had been malevolently made out of doors, and attempted to be supported on garbled extracts from his speeches. He disdained to reply to the quarter whence this imputation proceeded, but in his place in parliament he was willing to explain his conduct. The resolution which he had brought forward, and which was studiously omitted in the garbled extracts from his speeches, merely pledged the House to take the earliest opportunity to consider of the repeal of the tax. He would conclude by assuring the House, that when he accepted of office he had done so with a resolution to do his duty to the utmost of his abilities.
 Mr. Courtenay. —Was it, he asked, fair to bring forward public men as useless functionaries of the state, because they did little in parliament, without considering the duties they performed in their offices? And could any thing be clone in parliament by a commissioner for the affairs of India, without a previous attention to the subject, in his office? As to the office he (Mr. Creevey) had held, he had made but little allusion to it; no more than he could help: and dropping all official manner, and assuming the tone of an independent country gentleman, he appeared on this occasion before the House, to call for the abolition of one of the commissionerships, as a useless and unnecessary office, and for a parliamentary inquiry to establish the fact; a. proceeding which the House well knew
 1132 1133 1134 1135 1136 1137 1138 1139 1140 1141
 Mr. Thomas Courtenay  said, that he was not induced to offer himself thus early in the, debate, in consequence of the personal reference that had been made to him by the hon. gentleman. He would leave it to those who were the authors of the acts with regard to himself, which were so odious to that hon. gentleman, to answer him on that subject. His immediate object in rising was, to satisfy the House, that a direct negative ought to be given to the motion of the hon. gentleman. As to himself, he would only declare upon his honour, that from what he knew of the duties of the office he held, and from the manner in which he discharged them (and he regarded it as a moral offence to take a salary of which he was not deserving), that he looked back with infinitely more satisfaction to the period he had occupied the office of secretary to the board of control, than the hon. gentleman could do, to the time during which lie, held it. [Hear hear!] ' From the moment the hon. gentleman gave an indefinite notice of a motion to call the attention of the House to that board be (Mr. Courtenay) must own that he looked with some anxiety, and not a little curiosity, to the mode the hon. gentleman, would adopt in bringing the subject forward; Knowing the relation in which the hon. gentleman formerly stood to the board, he indulged at first in the expectation, that he would, perhaps, come forward and state that the secretary ship, while he held it, was an office of very great trust; that all the individuals connected with the board performed their duty; that they were, therefore, intitled to their salaries; but that the business of the secretary, as well as of the commissioners, was much better performed then than at present; and that these offices had now become little better than sinecure situations. Knowing, however, as he did, how the facts of the case stood, he felt that his expectation was too good to be true. He then thought that, perhaps, the hon. gentleman would come to the House, in a modest manner, with head abased and countenance suffused with blushes, and acknowledge that he had himself formerly been guilty of holding a sinecure [loud cheers, and laughter], as well as certain considerable persons who, during the time he had been in office, acted as presidents of the board. He had imagined that the hon. gentleman would have
 1131
 Mr. Creevey. —"I said in parliament."
 Mr. Creevey  addressed the House to the following effect:—I rise, Sir, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the present state of a great public office—I mean the Board of Control, for managing the affairs of India. Every body who is at all acquainted with the history of this country for the last forty years, must be aware of the great difference of opinion which always subsisted between Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox, as to the management of the affairs or India. It is well known, that finally Mr. Pitt's system prevailed, and that it is to him we owe the present board of control. But I beg to call the attention of the House to the principles upon which that board was founded by Mr. Pitt. In the year 1784, a sort of agreement first took place between the India company and the country as to the government of India. It was then thought proper to introduce the existing system; and Mr. Pitt, in bringing the subject under the notice of parliament, said, that it was a great pleasure to him to be enabled to state that this establishment would be attended with no expense to the country; that several honourable gentlemen would gratuitously discharge the duty of commissioners; that there was to be no charge—no salaries—no patronage; and that though his own time was much occupied in the business of his office, he would gladly lend his assistance to the commissioners. Mr. Pitt, in every respect, fulfilled his promise; and this commission lasted, unaltered, nine years—that is to say, from 1784, when it was first formed, until 1793. As Mr. Pitt had pointed out, the constitution of this board, during nine years, was unaccompanied by salaries, either to himself, or to the other gentlemen who had taken upon themselves the functions of its commissioners. In 1793, when a new constitution of the board took place, a different compact or agreement was entered into between the East India company and the public. The bill which had been originally introduced by Mr. Pitt, fell into the hands of the late lord Melville, and it was on that occasion, Sir, that the first departure took place from this unpaid, romantic, gratuitous system. Lord Melville procured a clause to be inserted in this bill, by which the East India company were to pay annually 16,000 l. l. 1121 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. l. * l. * 1122 l., l. l.; 1123 1124 1125 1126 l. l. l., l. l. l. 1127 l. 1128 * l., l., l. l., l. l. * 1129 l., 1130
 Mr. Creevey  briefly replied. He said, he had understood before he came down to the House, that the great performer was to be put in requisition that night, and that this was his last appearance on that stage for some time. Like some other great actors, however, he had overdone his part. The House had heard all the changes rung on a few words, and each time his friends laughed at his repeated attempts at waggery, as if they were new. Thus they had heard no less than four or five times the very amusing phrases of the "idle secretary," "the idle, loitering, newspaper-reading secretary," "the idle park-window gazing se-
 1164
 Sir J. Newport  thought it very absurd that the public accounts could not be made out in some more satisfactory way than they were at present, so as to show at once how the accounts stood, without needing the speech of a secretary for a whole hour, to explain how these differences were to be accounted for. He should vote for the committee of general inquiry, rather than that proposed by the amendment.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  had hoped, that the freedom of debate, both in and out of parliament, was sufficiently understood to allow a latitude of discussion upon public topics. The gentlemen opposite might have only one opinion of the innocent tendency of their measures; yet others might think quite the reverse of their effect. It was too much to say that one set of gentlemen should, in the discharge of what they deemed to be their duty in parliament, adopt a particular course, and yet complain that others who differed from them should deliver their opinion upon that course in the way which it struck them. Still more extraordinary was it, that such a proceeding should be brought forward as a breach of privilege. He trusted that they still lived in a land of freedom, and that neither he nor his friends were to be gagged by the gentlemen opposite, who threatened to visit with a breach of privilege, any man who ventured to express an opinion upon the tendency of their measures.
 Lord Normanby  said, that he had not seen the letter alluded to, but if it contained an imputation upon him and others of being actuated by a desire to undermine the best institutions of the country, it was wholly unwarrantable.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, it did not follow, because the writer of a letter entertained an opinion that the proceedings of others were calculated to pro-
 1176
 Colonel Davies  said, the letter contained the words,—"the Opposition, despairing of coming into office, had determined to do so and so." This he conceived was a direct imputation.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  observed, that it was no unusual thing to charge gentlemen with an anxiety to attain, or a despair of attaining office.
 Lord Normanby  said, that feeling he had been actuated only by a conscientious sense of duty in the line he had pursued, he could not help thinking it extraordinary that any member should dare to impute to him a wish to support dangerous doctrines, or to undermine the best interests of the country, for having introduced a measure which had twice received the sanction of that House.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that this was the first time he had heard the Speaker called upon to decide upon a question on an hypothetical case. The letter in question was certainly a private communication, and could not be construed into a breach of privilege. Suppose some gentleman opposite were to write to a friend, and state that the measures pursued by ministers were likely to overturn the liberties of the country—would any person contend that this was a breach of privilege? If such a communication were to be so considered, he believed they would have very many breaches of privilege to decide upon. There was not on the records of parliament a proposition more monstrous, since the time when the House had disgraced itself beyond redemption, by expelling some, and committing other members, who refused to give credit to the Popish plot in the reign of James the First.
 Sir R. Fergusson  said, the right hon. gentleman had looked at this transaction as if it had been a single letter sent to a private individual. But, what would the House say, if it turned out to be a Treasury circular, sent to absent members, to induce them to attend and give their support to ministers. This, he believed in his conscience, to be the fact.
 Mr. Wynn  said, his right hon. friend had stated, that the letter was a private one, and that he had kept no copy of it.
 Lord Normanby  said, that as all personal allusion had been disclaimed, he would be the last man in the House to follow up the matter any farther.
 Mr. Bernal  said, the gallant officer ought not to be surprised, if among the multiplicity of objects which his hon. friend's most beneficial system of retrenchment embraced, there should be some upon which his information was not quite correct. The zeal and ability of his hon. friend were proved on too many occasions to be at all affected by passing errors of this kind. For his own part, he did not view with the same objection as his hon. friend, the establishments of the table in question.
 Colonel Davies  said, he should feel it, necessary to move an amendment. He should propose to reduce the vote; first of all, by 18,000 l., l., l. s. d. l.
 Colonel Davies  objected to the expense occasioned by employing district quartermasters-general. They were, with an active army, of' great service, but their duties in England were perfectly insignificant. The colonial staff in the Leeward and Windward Islands would also admit of a great reduction.
 Mr. Maberly  recommended his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) to abandon the useless task of disputing the estimates, item by item, since all his exertions were rendered unavailing by the overwhelming majorities of ministers. He entreated his hon. friend not to exhaust his own strength and that of his friends, night after night, but to propose at once a reduction of taxation to the amount which he judged fair and reasonable, and then to leave the country to decide between him and ministers. His hon. friend had undoubtedly done more good for the country than any man who had sat in parliament for the last twenty years; but still he could not help dissuading his hon. friend from pursuing a system, which the determination of ministers not to make any effectual reduction of the public expenditure, rendered wholly unavailing.
 Mr. R. Smith  said, he understood that prince Leopold, had, with a proper consideration for the distressed state of the country, expressed a desire to have his income reduced to the same scale as that of the royal dukes. He was sure the country would feel the propriety of the step which had been taken by his royal highness; and he wished to ask the noble lord, when he intended to make this important communication to the House?
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he
 1184
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he should not have troubled the House upon the question if he had not seen the hon. member for Aberdeen attempting to take an odious and unfounded view of it. He really thought it rather too much to contend that the commander-in-chief was so inefficient a field-marshal, that he ought to be shorn of his emoluments, and, in a manner, disgraced in the service by being put upon half-pay, Why did the hon. member for Abingdon wish the hon. member for Aberdeen to come down with a lumping vote instead of going into detail? Did he do it because the hon. member's details would not bear examination? because he saw hint going on with one blunder after another, night after night?
 1185 l.
 Mr. Maberly  could assure the noble lord he had no intention of making an attack either upon the commander-in-chief or his secretary. All that he wished to do was merely to keep the noble lord to the recommendations of his own committee. This the noble lord had not done; and it was not fair to avoid the merits of the question by throwing out insinuations about lumping. If the noble lord would go into a committee, he would challenge him upon every item. He had not found fault with the commander-in-chief. No man was more ready than he to wish, that not his royal highness only, but every public officer who did his duty, should be paid, both in money and in honour. If they would separate the allowances of the commander-in-chief, he would have no objection to vote for them.
 Mr. Bennet  maintained, that his hon. friend had never intended to throw out any insinuation against the commander-in-chief, or his secretary; but he had objected to an increase of pay from nine to sixteen guineas per day. He objected to it as having been too great at the time it was made; and,  a fortiori, l.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he had supported the vote for the office of commander-in-chief last year, and he saw no reason to alter that opinion. As it was admitted, that we should have a commander-in-chief, he did not think we could have a more able, efficient, and impartial one than the duke of York had been. As to the pay of the secretary, he did not see why it should be below his rank. He hoped his hon. friend would
 1187
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had not called the letter a breach of privilege; but had said, that it was a matter which nearly concerned the privileges of parliament; inasmuch as the writer had imputed unworthy motives to members of that House. The right hon. member had disavowed any such imputations; and he (lord J. R.) was satisfied. He had made no motion— he had no motion to make.
 Lord John Russell  said, he should be quite ready to drop all farther notice of the letter, if the Speaker would say, that it was competent for any member, consistently with the privileges of that House, to say, that one set of gentlemen, despairing of being able to get into power, were endeavouring to undermine the constitution.
 Lord John Russell  rose, to call the attention of the House to a circumstance which very nearly concerned their rights and privileges. An hon. member had received a letter, requesting
 1174
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord, it became necessary for him to inform the House, that the expressions just quoted to them had been written by him. They were contained in a letter which was entirely of a private nature; and although he had no hesitation in avowing himself to be the author of it, he could not admit that the expressions in question would bear the construction the noble lord had
 *The following is a copy of the said letter:— [PRIVATE.]—Downing-street, 8th March, 1822.—My dear Sir; On Wednesday next, the 13th instant, a motion is to be made by lord Normanby, to abolish the office of one of the postmasters-general, and on the 14th, the day following, Mr. Creevey makes a similar motion against the board of control.—In this manner the just and necessary influence of the Crown is from day to day attacked; and as other motions of a similar nature are to be made by lord Althorp, &c.; it will be quite impossible for any set of men to conduct the government of this country, unless practices of this kind shall be successfully resisted.—It seems as if the Opposition, in despair of coming into office, had determined to break down the means of administering the affairs of the country; and as this subject is become most serious I have no scruple in apprizing you of what is now passing, with the hope and expectation that you will think it necessary to attend, and thus to lend your aid in stemming the torrent of such dangerous innovation. Your's, most sincerely, "C. ARBUTHNOT." 1175
 Mr. Arbuthnot  repeated, that there was nothing in the letter which he had written to bear out the construction put upon it.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, he entertained the greatest personal respect for some of the gentlemen opposite, and he believed they knew it; at the same time, he confessed he disliked some of their measures; and entertaining that dislike, he did not feel that the privileges of the House prevented his expressing it.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  conceived, that any opinion expressed in a private letter could not be considered a breach of the privileges of that House. The letter in question was a private letter, and so private was it, that he declared, upon his honour, he had kept no copy of it. In writing that letter he had not the slightest intention of giving offence in any quarter; but still if the act was a wrong one, he was ready to bear the full responsibility of it. Who had made the letter public he could not tell. If in writing the letter he had acted wrong, he was the last man to shrink from the responsibility attached to his conduct.
 Mr. Ellice  complained of the manner in which the estimates were laid before the House. The House ought to be made acquainted with the various emoluments derived from the public, in any other shape, by individuals whose names were brought forward in those annual grants. Gentlemen would then have an opportunity of judging whether individuals were too highly or too moderately remunerated. It would, in that case, be matter for consideration, whether the noble lord, who was now governor of Canada, who received in that situation 4,500 l. l., l. l.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the table at St. James's was a privilege which had been attached to the guards ever since their first formation. Whenever allowances had been either first granted or increased to other regiments, it had always been said to the junior officers of the guards—"You must be satisfied, you have the St. James's table." If the subalterns in the guards were to be paid the same allowances as subalterns in the line received, they would have to take 30,000 l. l. l.: l. 1180
 General Gascoyne  said, that disguise the motion as members might please, it went in effect to stigmatize his royal highness, for it stated substantially that he had already received more than he deserved from the country. Now, so fat from thinking that his services had been overpaid, he would rather see an increase of his allowance. As to the secretary there was no man whose long and meritorious services better entitled him to a liberal remuneration from the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, he thought the pay of the commander-in-chief too great. Since the peace it had been raised from nine to sixteen guineas a day. He thought his royal highness ought at least to come back to the footing of the war. He did not undervalue the services of the royal duke, but his object was, to reduce the pay of all field marshals. There were three secretaries receiving salaries of 2,000 l. l. l.; l.
 Mr. Hume  thought the country had a right to expect a much larger reduction. What was the necessity of keeping up four district assistants to the quartermaster-general, when there were a quartermaster-general and three assistants at
 1181 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume,  in reply, denied any intention of throwing a stigma on the commander-in-chief, or his secretary, by the proposed reduction. On the contrary, he thought his royal highness and his secretary were entitled to great credit for the efficient discharge of their duties.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his determination to persevere, notwithstanding the discouraging opposition he had to encounter.
 Mr. Hume  said, the charge for the table kept for the officers of the foot and life-guards at St. James's Palace was 6,000 l., l. l. l. 1179 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir C. Burrell  said, that the officers of the guards were not paid so well as any other officers in the British army, and contended that they were therefore entitled to the small consideration of the table at St. James's. If an ensign in the guards were to sink the purchase-money of his commission in an annuity, he would get a much higher rate of pay than he received in virtue of his commission. With regard to the table which was kept for the officers of the guards, when the hon. member talked of the luxuries with which it was supplied, he was quite in error; for he believed the officers were rather kept on short commons than otherwise. There were subalterns in the guards of 16 and 17 years standing, whose pay would do no more than cover the expense of their regimentals.
 Mr. George Lamb  declared his surprise, that after the satisfactory explanation and disavowal given by the right hon. secre-
 1178
 Mr. W. Smith  trusted the hon. member for Aberdeen would persevere in a course, in which he had already succeeded to an extent which must have surpassed every man's expectations.
 The Speaker  said, that the House must see the difficulty in which he was placed, in giving an opinion upon the construction of a phrase drawn from a letter, and applied so as to affect the reputation of individuals, which letter was not itself before the House. The inconvenience of endeavouring to discuss a case of privilege, under such circumstances, was obvious. In the first place, to impute a despair of attaining office to any body, was an imputation which did not come within the prohibition of the orders of that House; but the remainder of the phrase, if uttered there, would be strictly unparliamentary, and most disorderly. To impute an unworthy, much less an unconstitutional motive, to any hon. member in the exercise of his public duty was certainly unparliamentary. But then, again, if the imputation were levelled only at the tendency of measures, and not at the intentions of the individuals who had originated them, the case would be different; still it was impossible for them to consider the construction of the phrase without having the actual words before them. An opinion might be wrong and mistakenly applied, but still not unparliamentary. If the imputation were directly applied to individuals, there could be no doubt that it was most outrageously disorderly. Not hav-
 1177
 Sir J. Shelley  fully concurred in every thing which had been said of the meritorious services of the commander-in-chief, and he would not only give him the sum proposed, but would go farther, and support an increase of that sum, if such were deemed necessary; for he considered the country was in debt to his royal highness, and that it had not sufficiently remunerated his meritorious services.
 Lord Palmerston  said, it was a mistake to suppose that the duties of the commander-in-chief were decreased by the peace. The contrary was the fact; for those duties increased in proportion to the increase of the half-pay-list.
 Lord Palmerston  said, the pay of the commander-in-chief was the military pay attached by regulation to the rank of field marshal. In point of mental exertion, and strict attention to the duties of his office, it was impossible for any public servant to discharge his duty more faithfully than his royal highness, and he was persuaded the House would not think his services overpaid. With regard to the official establishment of the commander-in-chief, there was not a more important branch of the public service than that which was discharged by his secretaries, and he was persuaded that this department would be crippled and rendered inefficient if the amendment were acceded to.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that in 1792, there were six aides-de-camp to the king on the staff, who were paid at a higher rate than at present. The hon. gentleman had greatly underrated the expense of the staff in 1792. He had totally omitted sums paid for extraordinaries and contingencies, and had taken the actual estimated expense. The noble lord defended the necessity of having proper persons to inspect the clothing of the army. As to the chaplain-general, a man might be very respectable; but if there was not some person to see that he performed the duty for the army in the way which was contemplated by the legislature, the public money would in some instances, be uselessly expended. The chaplain-general had to correspond with all the stations abroad, and the garrisons at home; and he had no person but his deputy to assist in the duties of his office, and in making up his various accounts. With respect to the district quarter-masters-general, they were not, as had been
 1182 l. dictum
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that one major-general had been reduced in Guernsey, and two in the colonies; considerable reductions had also been made in the medical department. It was also intended to make some further reductions in the colonial establishments.
 Mr. Calcraft  entirely concurred in the suggestion. Nothing could be more monstrous, when the legislature thought fit to ease the country of a burthen, than that the brewers, or any other great class of capitalists, should interpose and divert into private sources that profit which belonged to the public at large.
 Sir B. Martin  was persuaded, that less than two members could not get through the business before each committee, and contended that the whole reduction in the navy estimates was 989,000 l.
 Mr. Bernal  denied that any of his hon. friends had been guilty of quibbling. But for the exertions of the hon. member for Aberdeen, and a few others, one tenth of the savings now proposed would not have been made.
 Mr. Bernal  called for an explanation of the difference which appeared between the sums voted for the navy in the years 1817, 1818, 1819, and the sums actually expended. In those years, the sum actually expended, had, taking all the items, exceeded the sum voted, by more than a million sterling. He did not mean from that to infer, that there had been any thing improper in the management, but it was a proof of the confused state in which the accounts were kept. Another thing was, the expence of superintending the naval dock-yard and arsenals. If the number of clerks was reduced, he could not see why the number of those overseers might not be reduced also. Of these overseers there was a numerous class, called sub-measurers, who received 180 l. l. s. l. s. d. s. l. l. l. 1197 l. s.
 Sir B. Martin  said, that with respect to the clerk who had been taken from the dock-yard to assist in the Navy Pay-office, there was not a more active or meritorious officer in the service. He was, however, to be returned to the dockyard. He had not heard any of the complaints on the part of the artisans, to which the hon. member had alluded. On the contrary, he had had letters of thanks from the men, for the manner in which they had been treated; for, though they did not now earn as much as formerly, yet they were all kept up; and if the reduction were carried on with respect to them, not fewer than 24,000 men, would be exposed to starvation. As to the difference in the estimates, he was not now prepared with those accounts to explain them, but he was satisfied they could be satisfactorily explained.
 Mr. Bennet  contended, that his hon. friend had not objected to a system of fair promotion, but to a system of excessive promotion that was founded on n principle of favoritism.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he had had the honour to know captain Searle for many years, and knew that nothing dishonourable could be imputed to him. He had presided during the greater part of the late war at the Victualling-board, when fleets were to be provisioned to all parts of the world, and no complaint had been made against him. But the active duties of war were very different from the duties of peace, and he who might well perform the former might be incompetent to the minute arrangements of the latter. Such was the case of the gallant admiral, and for this reason only had the late change taken place. He had called on him when he heard of the circumstance, and instead of the thunderbolt which the hon. officer had talked about, the note which removed him was couched in the kindest terms, and while it intimated that it was expedient that he should retire, thanked hint for his meritorious services. He was glad that he had had an opportunity of speaking to the character of admiral Searle and to the manner in which he had been removed.
 Mr. Ellice  asked, whether the country was reduced to such a state of distress that a young man, on his return home after 15 or 16 years of arduous service abroad, was to be told it had no longer the power to remunerate him? He had heard with great pain several of his hon. friend's motions that evening. To the reductions which his hon. friend had proposed in the civil expenditure, he did not object; but he could not support the retrenchments which he wished to make in this department. The navy was already reduced much lower than sound policy warranted.
 Mr. F. Buxton  thought, that nothing could be more monstrous, than that the sum about to be reduced should be allowed to go into the pockets of the brewers. But it should be considered, that the brewers had on hand a large stock of beer
 1190
 Mr. Croker  said, the salary of the office which he now held, had been 800 l., l. l. l. s.
 Mr. Croker  begged to state, that the first inducement to put the gentleman, now at the head of the Victualling-board in the situation which he filled, grew out of the great ability with which he had filled inferior offices. He had been chosen because no other man of his rank stood so high in the estimation of his superiors: He had also been preferred in an economical point of view. Two commissioners from the navy board, of which he was one were to be provided for. By the course
 1193 l.
 Mr. Croker  said, that the hon. member would find, on inspection, that no less than three commissioners of the Navy at the board, and two at the ports, had been reduced since last year. The reports on naval revision had recommended that the business of the various departments should be divided between three separate committees, and those three committees now consisted of only two members each. If any one of them could at a future time, be properly merged in either of the others, he pledged himself that it should be done. It was true, that the saving by the reduction of clerks was in a degree counterbalanced by the superannuation allowances; but it was not denied that those allowances ought to be given, and they had been calculated, not according to the provisions of an existing act, but of a prospective bill that was about to be introduced into parliament. This was a proof of the economical spirit with which the arrangement had been concluded. Last year there were in the Admiralty-office, Pay-office, Navy-office and
 1194 l., l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in 1792 the expense of this department was only 11,788 l. l. l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  asked, what occasion there was for seven commissioners in this office? At least two of them could be reduced. He, therefore, moved an amendment to substitute 33,217 l., l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in 1792 the offices connected with the navy cost only 58,000 l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l., 1195
 Mr. Hume  said, that in many departments of the dock-yards, the saving had been really nothing. The charge in the present year was 202,000 l.; l.: l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know why a naval officer had been removed from Deal, where there was much to do, to Harwich, a port where there was comparatively nothing?
 Mr. Hume  said, he understood this officer was one of the corporation of Harwich. He agreed that there was a strong suspicion of parliamentary influence being
 1199 l. l. l.,
 Mr. Hume  complained of the number of promotions which had taken place since the peace. At the close of the war, 1,000 midshipmen had been promoted, as it was understood, for war services, and promotion had gone on increasing ever since. Since the year 1816, upwards of 428 midshipmen, and 130 lieutenants had been promoted, and the promotion of post captains, rear admirals and vice admirals, had gone on in proportion. The total of promotions since the peace, was 797. He objected also to the principle of the promotions which took place at the late coronation. He was prepared to show, that commanders had been promoted who were low down upon the list, in preference to others higher up. This was quite unnecessary, and under the circumstances, too, of what could only be regarded as a pageant. It was impossible that talking about the present distresses of the country could produce any relief, while expenses were so needlessly increased. He knew that in these promotions there was a parliamentary influence exerted on both sides of the House, and he hoped ministers would resist it altogether. He then contrasted the number of officers on half-pay at the close of the war and. at present, and stated that the number had been increased for the sake of the patronage.
 Mr. Huskisson  begged to express his regret at having been absent on a former evening, when some conversation had arisen upon the subject of this bill. On that occasion it was said, that the repeal of so considerable a part of the malt duty would not lead to any diminution in the price charged by the brewers for their beer; and that when the chancellor of the exchequer thought it right to remit a great portion of a public tax, the brewers had only to put the  bonus l.; bonus l. bonus 1188 1189 s.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the subject would certainly come within the scope of the chancellor of the exchequer's bill. The board of Admiralty was prepared to act up fully to the recommendations of the committee of finance, and to place the whole of the dock-yards upon a more economical, and, he trusted, not a less efficient footing.
 Sir G. Cockburn  would assure the hon. member, that the points to which he had called the attention of the committee, had already come under the notice of the commissioners; and one of the chief objects of their last survey had been, how they were to reduce the overseers. That principle had been recognized, and would be acted on without delay. With regard to the circular sterns, they had been decided on, in consequence of their superior strength. The first vessel that had been so fitted, had been sent round Cape Horn, where she had been found to resist the sea much better than the square sterned vessels.
 Sir G. Cockburn  vindicated the principle on which the promotions were conducted, and stated that at the coronation, the commanders who were employed, were
 1200
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that he was not, in fact, an officer of the navy, but a store keeper, who got the title of a naval officer from his employment. He was useful in Harwich for supplying with stores the cruizers for the north sea.
 Sir G. Cockburn  rose to do justice to the gallant admiral who had been named, and to prove that his hon. friend was misleading the House on subjects with which he ought to have been better acquainted. After a minute enquiry into the state of the Victualling department, he (Sir G. C.) and those associated with him in the inquiry, had found that there was not that arrangement and supervision, nor that check on the clerks, which they considered to be necessary, and thence they came to the conclusion, that it was not desirable that the late chairman should remain at the head of the Victualling-board. But it was proper at the same time to state, that nothing had transpired that at all detracted from the honour and probity of captain Searle. When, therefore, it was thought necessary to remove him from the Victualling-board, it was thought right to do it in such a way as should neither be injurious to his feelings or to
 1192
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that the accounts had never been minutely inspected, while one clerk checked the accounts of another. The arrangement was now newmodelled, and it had been found necessary to charge the commissioners with a more minute inspection of the accounts; and therefore, the reduction which had been contemplated, had not taken place. After a short conversation, the committee divided; for the amendment 30. Against it 66. The original resolution was then agreed to.
 Sir I. Coffin  thought there was not a better man than captain Searle in the service, or one who had more ably per formed the duties of his station.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  begged to call their attention to a subject which could not be deemed irrelevant. In a case where so great a service as that of the navy was concerned, he did think it right to notice to the House the late appointment of John Clarke Searle, esq., to be a Rear-Admiral of the White. It would appear to have been formerly the custom that when a gentleman, having risen in the naval service of his country to the rank of a flag-officer, chose to fill an office in the civil department of the state, he thereby abandoned the next step in his promotion. Now, there was something curious in the way in which this gentleman had passed his flag. Nothwithstanding that he had for some time filled a civil situation, he had been considered entitled to the reward which was extended to gallant officers by promotion; and not only so, but to receive it accompanied with one of the highest marks of favour which the service could bestow. But the most painful part of the story was, that just prior to this appointment, J. C. Searle, esq., had experienced a certain share of displeasure from the board of Admiralty. In fact, it had been made known to them, that a certain share of delinquency existed in the subordinate departments of the Victualling-office, and shortly afterwards an intimation was received by capt. Searle, that he should quit the chair which be then filled. To any honourable mind, conscious of its own integrity, and still more to an individual who had filled this chair for the space of 14 years—who had received, as a reward for past services, not only his own salary attached to that situation, but a pension besides, during the continuance of the war, and whose amiable lady, for amiable he had no doubt she was, had also had settled upon her a pension of 300 l. 1191 l.
 Sir J. Yorke  had never meant to impute any delinquency to captain Searle. He only thought the board had been too hasty in removing him, and that having broken his head in the first instance, the new appointment was given him by way of a plaister.
 Sir J. Yorke  believed there was more in this appointment than met the eye. With Sheerness so near, there was no necessity for the delivery of stores at Harwich. Perhaps the appointment could be explained better by the fact that Harwich had the honor of returning; as one of its representatives, a chancellor of the exchequer.
 Mr. Curwen,  in rising to bring on his promised motion for a committee of the whole House on the import duties on Tallow, said, that the subject was one of great importance, not only as it affected the landed interest of the country, but as it affected other interests, which it was the duty of that House to protect. He had the means of knowing the opinions of agriculturists, and he knew that they thought that the importation of foreign tallow was one amongst other causes
 1207 1208 d. d. d., d. d. 1209 d. s. s. l. l. l. 1210 l. l. d., d. l. l. l. l. l. l. d., d., d. d., d. d. 1211
 Mr. Sykes  could not concur with his hon. Mend in the principal object of his motion; because, at a time when the question of peace or war was trembling in the balance—when the fate of thousands of unfortunate christians was involved in the forthcoming decision of the cabinets of Petersburgh and, Constantinople, it would be unwise to irritate the Russian government by imposing a severe additional duty upon an article of Russian produce. Such a course, moreover, might lead to some harsh retaliatory measure on their part, directed against the commerce of England. It must be evident, too, that if the importation from Russia was lessened, the exportation from England, must decrease in proportion. He did, however, perfectly agree with his hon. friend, in the necessity of repealing the tax on candles, which was a tax on labour itself; because, while gas, and oil lamps, and; a hundred other elegant inventions, were employed for the purpose of lighting the mansions of the rich, the industrious mechanic worked many hours, after his daily labour, by candle light. A tax on candles, therefore, was a direct tax on labour; and consequently one that no motives of human policy could ever sanction. He was not disposed to disagree with the financial views of the chancellor of the exchequers or to contend, that there ought not to be a surplus beyond the expenses of the country. Whether that surplus should be to the extent of five millions above the annual revenue, he would not decide; but if it were proposed that it should accumulate at compound interest, he should give it his firm opposition. He had seen that the sinking funds of sir R. Walpole and of Mr. Pitt, had no sooner been established, than they were broken in upon; and he anticipated the same result if the system were now revived. In so much of the proposition of the hon. mover, as contemplated the reduction of the tax, he fully agreed; but he could not agree in any measure which would indicate hostility on the part of this country against Russia.
 Mr. Robinson  agreed in a great part of what had fallen from the hon. member for
 1212 l. l. l. l. l.; l. s. l. l. s. s. not 1213
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he had heard with great pleasure the principles avowed by the president of the board of trade, and hoped the right hon. gentleman would hereafter act upon them; for if they had hitherto been followed up, the right hon. gentleman could never have proposed the duties upon cheese and butter [Hear!!.] The hon. mover was a great friend to agriculture, and was ready to go a great way in support of it. The length to which he had gone that night was really surprising, for he had told them exactly the quantity of tallow produced in this country, the quantity produced abroad, and the effect which the tax operating on this quantity would have upon the price, which he told them was precisely 5 l. s., 1214
 Mr. T. Wilson  expressed the strongest objection to the measure proposed, and was very doubtful what would be its effect upon Russia. The hon. mover had stated, that when the duties on wool were imposed, the Spanish government took off the exports, but he forgot the circumstance, that Spain immediately prohibited woollen goods of the manufacture of this country. The same effect, he was convinced, would follow, if such a course were pursued towards Russia. He was a friend to free trade, and if its principles were not to be acted upon, he was anxious for the character of this, country, that it should not cast the first stone, and allow other nations to say, that they were only retaliating upon us.
 Mr. Bennet,  of Wilts, said, he was a friend to the principles of free trade, but he had never heard them applied to the removal of the restrictions on the proposed repeal of the importation of hats, or silk, or leather goods, or the other innumerable articles of manufacture, but solely to the removal of the small protection which agriculture enjoyed. He was convinced that some restrictions were necessary at present, as in no manufactures could we compete with foreigners under the present weight of taxation. The tax which had been imposed on foreign wool had been
 1215
 Mr. Philips  called the attention of the House to the manner in which the manufacturers had come forward in favour of a free trade, referring particularly to a petition presented from the chamber of commerce of Manchester. He contended, that the skill and ingenuity of our manufacturers was sufficient to protect them against the rivalship of foreign nations. On the subject of a relaxation of taxes, he expressed his decided opinion, that the duty which might be most beneficially removed was that upon raw silk. It would produce a vast extension of the manufacture of that article, and would thereby inevitably benefit the agricultural interest; seeing that the prosperity of agriculture depended mainly upon the prosperity of the manufactures. He trusted that the session would not be allowed to pass away, without some further light being thrown upon the subject of a free trade with foreign countries.
 Mr. Marryat  presented a petition from the council and the house of assembly of the island of Grenada, complaining of the distress to which the inhabitants of that island, in common with those of all the other British West India colonies, were reduced, and praying that the House would afford them such relief as was absolutely necessary to save them from impending ruin The hon. member stated, that the distress of the agriculturists at home had a prior claim to the attention of the House, but that the next subject, in point of importance was, the distress that prevailed among the agriculturists of our West India colonies. He had read in a pamphlet, said to be published under official authority, that the total of all the sums raised upon the land, in Great Britain and Ireland, under the several heads of beer, of malt, of hops, and of land-tax, for 1821, was about 9,000,000 l.; l. 1201 s. d. d., d., d. 1202 1203 1204 1205 1206 l., l.
 Mr. Ellis  confirmed all that had been said respecting the severe distress under which the colonies now laboured. That the planters had not sooner appealed to parliament was owing to the confidence they reposed in the protection of the legislature.
 Colonel Davies  said, the noble lord wing blamed by his honourable friend, not for
 1221
 Colonel Davies  suggested, that the whole of this department might be dispensed with. He believed the paymaster-generalship of the army to be an entirely useless office. It was merely a ministerial office, and the only duty done was the passage of money through it. The expense of the office had greatly and needlessly increased. In 1797, the entire charge of the office was 11,340 l. l.
 Sir C. Long  said, that of all the committees of finance which had considered this subject, there was not one which had thought the office of paymaster-general useless. This office, it seemed, had escaped the diligent and accurate research of Mr. Burke, and of lord Colchester, and it was reserved for the sagacity of the hon. colonel to discover that it was altogether useless. The hon. colonel said the office was a ministerial one; now, he must think that the hon. member knew very little, if any thing, of: the nature of the office, to make such: an assertion. The business of this department could not be performed without the assistance of the paymaster-general, who had to examine and pass a great variety of accounts. Was that ministerial duty? Was the payment of the half-pay nothing? But it was said, that this was a duty which might be performed, by the Bank. Now, he, from experience, might state, that the Bank could not discharge the duty. He had to look at various accounts of officers, to see whether their affidavits were regular, whether the proper forms were gone through, and, where such forms were accidentally omitted, to decide whether the omission was of such a nature as
 1222 l.; l; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l.,
 The Solicitor General  observed, that office of judge advocate general was a patent place, and had been on its present
 1224
 Mr. Bright  begged also to express his concurrence in the opinion, that the distresses of the colonies required immediate attention.
 Mr. Hume  declared himself unable to see where the great reductions had been made. It was true there was a diminution of charge of 1,908 l. l. l. 1223
 Mr. Hume  said, he was sorry to find there was no intention to bring back the salary of the judge advocate-general to any thing like what it was formerly. When it was remembered that sir C. Morgan held that situation for so great a length of time, at a salary of 1,300 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that this was not a patent place, but an office from which the person holding it might be removed at the pleasure of the Crown. The learned gentleman had said, that the rules observed in courts of law were also observed at courts martial. He could as soon be persuaded that black was white, as that the duties of this office were as great in time of peace, as they had been in a period of war.
 Mr. Hume  said, the noble lord had made the saving amount to 8,000 l.; l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. 1217 l. l. l. l. s. l. l. l. l. l.: l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1218 l.
 Mr. Hume  asked, what was the reason for keeping up so large a staff at that establishment? There were a governor, a lieutenant-governor, a major, four captains, and so on; in short, the whole staff cost the country 6,000 l. l., l. 1227 s. d. l., l. s. d.
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that the state of the colonies had not escaped the attention of his right hon. friend the president of the board of trade, who meant in the ensuing week to submit a motion on the subject of regulating the intercourse of the colonies with Canada.
 The Speaker  said, that as he had had
 1225 l. l. 1226 l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, his majesty's government had certainly very little encouragement to make any reductions, considering the manner in which they were received by the hon. gentleman opposite. He admitted that he had said, in the last session, that no reduction of clerks could be made, without inconvenience to the public service; but, if he had since deferred to the wishes of parliament, it was a little unfair to charge him in one session with making no reductions, and then to turn round upon him, and accuse him of having made them in another session. With regard to the introduction of young clerks into the office, it was the only mode by which he had been enabled to make any reductions. He had discharged individuals with high salaries of 700 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. 1219 l. 1220 l. l. l. l., l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, the hon. member had acted most fairly in his opposition to this grant, for his argument did not so much tend to say that the establishment was too great a charge upon the public as to break it down by degrees altogether. The question, therefore, was, whether, as it was necessary to keep up a standing army, there should or should not, exist a place in which the officers of it could be properly qualified. He would not argue the necessity of professional instruction for military men, because it was evident, that unless the army was officered by gentlemen who knew the theory and practice of the art which they professed, the bravery of our soldiers would be quite ineffectual. If, then, it was necessary to have a college at all, the staff now employed on it was not too large. The students, from their particular age, being scarcely men, and no longer boys, were peullarly difficult to manage, and would become quite unmanageable, unless there Were some military men of rank and experience, to control them. The noble ford then contended that the admissions to the college were not more numerous
 1228
 Lord Palmerston  rose to move the remainder of the Army Estimates. He would begin with the vote relative to the War office. He had made, since last year, a reduction to the amount of 8,000 l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l. l. 1216 l. l. s.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he could not suffer this particular vote to pass, without exposing to the House how the country was situated in this respect. He could not see why commissioners should be maintained at Plymouth, Portsmouth, Sheerness, Chatham, Woolwich, and Deptford, at salaries of 1,200 l. l., s. d. l. s. d. 1229
 Mr. Hume  said, he conceived there was no adequate reason for keeping up a full admiral in any of our sea-ports, and understood that the expense was two-thirds greater than that attending a rear-admiral, who would be quite sufficient for all useful purposes. It appeared to him a very bad arrangement by which a flag was kept flying at Leith, whilst we had not one in the whole empire of India. The sum of 80,000 l. 
 
 Officers Promoted. Amount of Half-pay in one year. Amount of Half-pay to December, 1822. 
 In 1816 142 £.16,169 for 6½ years £.105,101 
 1817 72 9,818 for 5½years 54,001 
 1818 103 12,473 for 4½ years 56,132 1230 
 
 In 1819 167 £.49,986 for 3½ years £.174,954 
 1820 77 8,413 for 2½ years 21,033 
 1821 236 46,537 for 1½ years 69,806 
 Total 797 in 1 year. 143,399 making, since the Peace 481,029 l. l.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, it was not intended to retain port-admirals as a fixed system; but since some of the present had been so employed for 30 years, and during a war of unparalleled magnitude, he was sure the House would be of opinion, that the services of our commanders ought not to be hastily forgotten. It was at Plymouth only that a flag was flying at the main; and he could assure the House that there were at that port, and at Portsmouth, nearly 200 vessels to look after. The office of port-admiral was, indeed, very far from being a sinecure. When he (sir G. C.) last came home, he was a colonel of marines; but the king had been since graciously pleased to confer upon him the rank of a major-general in that service, an honour which he valued more than it was in his power to express. He begged leave to say that he knew the marine service well: he had had the pleasure of acting and fighting with them during 20 years of war. On very many occasions they had behaved, not only with the courage, but with the discipline of the oldest regular troops; and their conduct had called down the admiration and thanks of those military men who had witnessed it. He conjured the House to reflect upon the danger which they might create by manifesting any in-
 1231
 Mr. Fremantle  said, it was impossible the House, in common justice to its own character aid dignity, should consent that the imputations conveyed in the Petition, should be permitted to lie on the table. Was such an expression as "the notorious and avowed corruptions which have crept into your House," to
 1232
 Mr. Lushington  called the attention of the House to another paragraph in the petition, which was equally objectionable. It was that in which the petitioners stated, that "the mental, tortures endured by Mr. Hunt, ought to be considered a sufficient atonement for the, crime of showing how your honourable House might he made still more honourable."
 Mr. Wynn  believed that no circumstances which had occurred during the last ten years had even been so grossly miserpre-
 1233
 Mr. Bennet  maintained, that the right hon. gentleman had incorrectly stated the
 1234
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, there was no necessary for the hon. gentleman to sup-
 1235 1236
 Colonel Davies  said, that those who had shed their blood in defence of their country ought to be liberally rewarded; but, in his opinion, those who deserved such rewards would feel the honour to be greater if they were conferred by parliament. When parliament sanctioned a reward for faithful service, no person could doubt that the reward was justly bestowed; because the case of the individual was brought forward openly. But this was not the case with reference to the Crown. It was in the power of the Crown to grant rewards from motives of the merest favouritism. Therefore, arguing on principle, the system appeared to him to be excessively bad; and, in proportion as it was objectionable, it must appear evident, that to place the duty of rewarding merit in the hands of parliament, would be infinitely better. He could not conceive why such an expense at Gibraltar should be countenanced, when it was known, that during the last reign, no less than 124,000 l 
 Mr. Bennet  said, he had no indisposition to reward military men in the most liberal manner but the question was, in what way provision was to be made for them? The noble lord could, no doubt, adduce a long list of highly respectable names by whom these governorships had been held. The same might be done with respect to every public office. But, that was no argument for keeping up useless places. When it was attempted to do away the board of trade, the names of Gibbon, of Addison, and of other celebrated men, were mentioned as having been connected with that office, and therefore it was contended that it ought not to be suppressed. But, the question was, not who held the, office, but whether it was of any public use? He could see no reason, if military merit were to be rewarded, why it should not be brought before that House There was one argument strongly in favour of such a proceeding; namely, that no case would be brought before the House that would not bear the light. He did not mean to say that government would, unless peculiarly pressed, confer rewards on undeserving men; but they ought not to be left open to temptation. "Lead us not into temptation," was a prayer which they were constantly putting up; and to prevent ministers from encountering that temptation, which night lead them to abuse the power of the Crown, he would remove from them the authority by which they disposed of those governorships.
 Colonel Davies  said, could not possibly be inconsistent with the constitution to apply to parliament for the reward of military services, as ministers themselves had proposed so many pensions to military officers at the close of the late war, which pensions too were adjudged with an alacrity that amply proved the disposition of parliament to recognise the justice of such claims.
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that unless it was meant to dispute the old constitutional maxim, that the Crown was the fountain of honour, the proposition of the gentlemen opposite could not be consistently maintained. History should show gentlemen the danger of transferring to any other power than that of the Crown, the grant of military, rewards and distinctions. Upon such a transfer, the country must, whatever gentlemen might mean, become an absolute republic, for he was persuaded that they who began by petitioning; would very soon end with demands. Let the House consider how short a time elapsed before the parliamentary army in the reign of Charles the 1st, insisted upon their claims being attended to. This would always be the case when a popular assembly
 1245
 Mr. R. Smith  was of opinion, that, for all practical purposes, the House possessed a due control over the power of the Crown. He would not support the amendment, however useless the places might be, unless it could be proved that they were conferred without any merit on the part of those who held them. Let any instance of a reward conferred without merit be produced, and he would support a proposition for abolishing the place.
 Mr. Bennet  stated, that six weeks ago, on going over the estimates with his hon. friend, he (Mr. H.) declared to him the mistake. He also expressed his surprise that the acuteness of the gentlemen opposite had not discovered the mistake before. It was his advice, that his hon. friend should take the first favourable opportunity of setting himself right with the House. The noble lord thought it most strange that his honourable friend should fall into such an error, because-it was a mistake of logic. Now he (Mr. B.) had
 1252
 Sir. J. Hardinge  said, that however frequently he differed from the opinion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, in military matters, he perfectly agreed with him, in respect to the wisdom of taking officers from the half-pay list to active service. There was a statement of that hon. member to which he was desirous of calling the attention of the House. It was one which he had repeatedly made in that House and elsewhere, and particularly at Hereford, and other county meetings. This statement was, that during a period of five years, there had been in the army 2,553 appointments—["Promotions," from Mr. Hume.] —well, promotions; and that if these had been made from the half-pay list, there would have been a saving of 200,000 l. l. 1250 l.
 Mr. Lambton  said, that he had received no notice respecting this petition, until he was advised that the parties were about to transmit it to him for presentation. It was true that it did not emanate from any public meeting; indeed, there would not have been time to have called one, so as to have secured the arrival of a petition before the day fixed for discussing the subject in which the petitioners took such an interest. Besides, they should recollect the many absolute difficulties which were thrown in the way of meetings of the people by the six acts. He was astonished that the gentlemen opposite should be now so eager to complain of a petition, merely because it was not adopted at a public meeting, when they were the gentlemen who declared, that that very circumstance formed no objection to the hole-and-corner petitions which they so highly praised. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn) was perfectly consistent in opposing what he deemed an offensive imputation in a petitions He had always seen him disposed rather to close the doors of that House than to throw them wide open fir the reception of petitions containing any words likely to offend the squeamish taste of the House. They ought to excuse the people for putting a strong construction upon transactions which were not denied within that House. When on a former occasion he had presented a petition from Lyme complaining of the improper interference of a peer at an election, the hon. baronet opposite (sir J. Graham) asserted in its palliation, that if a noble earl had interfered on one side, it was equally notorious that noble persons in the interest of the opposition adopted the same course at elections. He had also heard lord Cochrane mention the regular market price of a seat, and say that he had paid 5,000 l. 1237
 Mr. Lambton  presented a petition from Newcastle upon Tyne, signed by 4,820 persons, praying for the liberation of Mr. Hunt. He had no hesitation in saying, without at all entering into the consideration of the principles or of the conduct of Mr. Hunt, with which he had no concern, that that individual had been treated in a most unjustifiable manner. The sentence originally passed upon him was most severe; and it could not be in the contemplation of the judges, that the severity of that sentence should be aggravated by the hardships and tortures which had been inflicted on Mr. Hunt by the gaoler, under the sanction of the visiting magistrates; or, at least, without any remedy being applied to the evil on their part. The petitioners urged Mr. Hunt as a fit object for the exercise of the royal clemency. They also represented the necessity of a reform in the representation; and expressed their strong disapprobation of the proceedings at Manchester.
 Mr. Mansfield  appealed to the hon. member, whether it was to be tolerated, that the gentlemen who voted on one side of the House should be told that they were influenced only by corrupt motives? He, for one, sat in that. House, not by the influence of corruption, but by the unanimous choice of a large number of most respectable constituents; and though his vote had been often given in opposition to the opinions of gentlemen opposite, yet he had given that vote unbiassed by any undue influence or corrupt motive. He disdained such motives as much as any man; and it was, because this petition most improperly imputed them, that he should oppose its reception.
 Mr. Monck  declared, that the petition though strong, was couched in language similar to that often expressed in the discussion of the same topics. He was decidedly in favour of receiving it.
 Sir J. Osborn  said, that with respect to Sheerness, 50,000 l. 1240 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, in the committee on these estimates last year, a great deal of conversation had taken place respecting this vote. Then, as now, his principal objection to the vote, was, as to that part of it which applied to Sheerness. Last session he submitted that they ought to vote no more money towards carrying on the works at Sheerness, until they had received sufficient information as to the propriety of continuing those works. In 1814, when these great works were first begun in our dock-yards, the estimate laid on the table for Sheerness, was 824,992 l.; l., l. l. l., l. l. 1239 l.; l. l. l., l. l. l.;
 Mr. Hume  hoped many of the offices held by persons who did not perform the duties of them would be abolished on the death of those individuals. He did not think the charge for garrisons ought to be so large, and unless he heard that which should induce him to change his opinion, he would submit a motion to the committee for deducting something from it. He particularly noticed the establishments in the islands of Guernsey and Jersey, and the charge for the militia which he understood was hardly called out oftener than once a year. He also offered some remarks on the taxes raised in Gibraltar, and on the charge which it threw on these estimates. He wished to know if it could not be lessened. He thought 22,000 l 
 Mr. Hume  said, he had not expresses any wish to take from the Crown the power of appointing officers. All that he contended for was, that a reduction of these objectionable appointments would be a real service to the army. He admitted that the gallant officer had shown that he had made a mistake in his statement, upon a former occasion. But it was the only mistake, in point of statement, he had ever committed in that, House. He had discovered the mistake afterwards, and had mentioned it to his hon. friend the member for Shrewsbury, who recommended him to correct mistake the first favourable opportunity, and this he had resolved to do. With respect to the gallant member's remarks upon county meetings, he begged to say, that he had attended but one county meeting since the time of his making that statement. If hon. members would look
 1251
 Mr. Hume  said, that the whole charge for retired allowances in the year 1819 did not amount to more than 107,000 l.; l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, his object was, to see whether the House would consent to cut down useless offices and sinecures, and leave that just and legitimate influence to the support of the monarchy which it was the intention of the constitution that it should possess. He had never heard, until within the last week that the keeping up of sinecures was necessary to the influence of the Crown. He would always maintain, that that Crown did not deserve to be supported, which could not stand upon the legitimate influence to be derived from the patronage of so vast an expenditure as that which was incurred by the government of this country. With the view of ascertaining how many advocates there were for that system, he would move a reduction in the estimate of 12,344 l.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the committee to the present amount of the half-pay estimate. At the sitting of the finance committee in 1817, the charge of the half-pay had been 647,000 l., l.; l.; l.; l., l. l. 1248 l. l., l. l. 1249
 Colonel Gossett said, the militia of Jersey was not only assembled every fortnight, but every Sunday, after divine service. Those who belonged to the militia had certain privileges, with respect to taxation; but then they received no pay, and were only clothed once in even years. The salary of the governor of he island was defrayed out of its revenue.
 Mr. James  was astonished at the fastidiousness of the gentlemen opposite, with respect to the passages in the petition which imputed corruption to that House, when he recollected the declaration of the late Speaker, that the buying and selling of seats in that House "was as notorious as the sun at noon-day."
 Mr. Peel  said, that after perusing the petition, he could not come to the same conclusion as the hon. gentleman had; namely, that no offence was intended by the petitioners. He entirely agreed with him that nothing was more impolitic than to check the expression of the people's complaints; yet he trusted to the hon. gentleman's own candour to admit, that nothing could be so prejudicial to the right of petitioning itself, as suffering the language used by these petitioners to pass without censure. It was a studied attempt to throw obloquy and insult upon all the institutions of the country it charged the government with instituting vindictive prosecutions, it cast a slur upon the administration of justice, and stated that the judges had punished Mr. Hunt merely because he shad endeavoured to bring about a reform. Was it possible to permit such an imputation as this to be east upon the judges of the land? As to declaration respecting the imputed notorious corruption of that House, if they once admitted the principle that such an allegation could be allowed in petitions, it would be too late to attempt to stop the repetition of such language. Viewing this petition, therefore, as a precedent, which, if adopted, would inevitably lead to a repetition of insults, he felt himself called upon to reject the petition.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that last year there was a governor of the Isle of Wight, who never held any other military appointment. The governor of Dartmouth was also a gentleman, formerly a member of that House, who had no other military connection whatever. He did not know to what extent such instances might avail, but he held them to be improper.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that would be the most invidious shape in which the question could come before them, as it would he going into the merits of an individual. The Crown was the fountain of honour, it was true; but it could not be said to be the fountain of reward, at least, in the sense of pecuniary recompense. It had the power of nominating to certain offices, but it was the duty of that House, as guardian of the public purse, to control and regulate the amount of pecuniary compensation for public services.
 Sir I. Coffin  deprecated the idea of any attempt to alienate the islands of Jersey and Guernsey from this country, considering the important services which they had often rendered to this country in defending it against France, and that since the days of William the Conqueror, there never had appeared more loyal subjects in the empire. As to the governments of the several garrisons, he thought them essential to the Crown as the rewards of merit; and the manner in which these appointments were usually disposed of,
 1243
 Sir J. Yorke  contended, that the works at Sheerness were undertaken under the immediate direction of most able and experienced men. He had only to mention the names of Mr. Watt, captain Huddart, and Mr. Jessop. The works notwithstanding the observations that had been made, would stand the test of severe criticism. Of this expenditure it was to be observed, that every shilling was spent in the country, and in some way or other found its way back into the Exchequer, and the hon. member should recollect, that his constituents were not a little benefitted, as the Aberdeen granite was much employed. When they recollected the various instances of unprofitable expenditure—the twenty millions spent in St. Domingo—the twenty millions lost in the Austrian loan—when they cast their eyes to the course of the Medway, and observed a certain hill, on which a lazaretto was erected at an expense of one million, of which not a vestige remained, the whole having been sold for 10,000 l., 1241
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that the petition was not agreed to at any public meeting, and therefore, could not be considered as representing the fair opinions of the inhabitants of the district from which it professed to come. Neither the original petition, nor a copy, had been sent to him, although it was given to other members. The petition could only be taken to represent the opinions of those persons by whom, it was signed. He, nevertheless, though, that the circumstances which had attended the imprisonment of Mr. Hunt deserved the serious consideration of the House.
 Sir R. Wilson  was surprised to find gentlemen so fastidious, particularly when he recollected that they expressed no displeasure on a former night, when a noble marquis declared, that useless stipendiary offices ought to be kept up, in order to enable ministers to carry on the machine of government. Why were those places to be maintained, but in order to secure the influence of a certain noble lord in another house, and his dependants in this? The House could not fail to perceive the object for which unnecessary offices were continued, when they recollected the manner in which lord Fife had been deprived of the place which he had held, because he voted against ministers in that House. Hon. members might, if they pleased, dispute about terms, but the facts would remain the same. They might call certain offices great, but the purposes for which they were given and held were well known. They were given, according to the acknowledgment of the noble marquis, for the purpose of obtaining for ministers a sinister influence in that House. The people had a right to complain of this.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the islands of Guernsey and Jersey, threw no expense upon this country beyond that for the staff, the remainder being paid out of the revenues of the islands. The militia, instead of being called out but once a year, was called out once a fortnight, and the inspector had reported them to be a most efficient body of men. With respect to the charge for Gibraltar, it was less than formerly by 3 or 4,000 l. 1242
 Lord Palmerston  apprehended, that the House must be aware of the grounds upon which officers were appointed to veteran battalions, and also of the circumstances under which they were allowed to retire from such battalions on full pay. The conditions attendant upon such permission was, that they abandoned all claim to fu-
 1247 l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, it was very true that lord Malmsbury, the governor of the Isle of Wight, never was in the army; but the governorship was conferred on him, in consequence of his giving up a pension of 2,000 l. l. l. 1244 l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, it appeared, that the hon. member's calculations were made upon the principle adopted in venturing a smuggler's cargo; namely, that if one in. three was safe, there was still a profit. The mistake of the hon. member was no slight one. He had not only stated it in his speech of last June, but had repeated it in December, when addressing the people of Hereford, who had voted him a cask of their generous beverage, for the accuracy of his calculations. It was a pity the hon. gentleman did not discover his mistake before he received the reward, that he might have undeceived them at the time that he received so grateful a token of their approbation. The error was not one of calculation only, but of reasoning and logic. The very document from which he drew his statement, by containing the number of promotions by purchase, showed, that the vacancies could not have been filled up from the half-pay list. The noble lord here detailed the number of commissions given since the peace, the proportion of vacancies filled up from the half-pay list, from purchase, or the free exercise of the patronage of the commander-in-chief, and contended that the commander-in-chief had attended to the claims of the officers on half-pay as much as was consistent with the good of the service, and the just expectations of the other class of officers. During last year, his royal highness had given 25 commissions to civil persons, and 23 to officers on half-pay.
 Mr. Hutchinson  asked, whether any case at all parallel could be mentioned, where the remuneration was so insignificant? Captain Romeo had endured an imprisonment of five months, and was then banished to Egypt; and, after his property in Calabria had been confiscated, he was rewarded for all he had done and undergone by a wretched pittance of 50 l. 1259
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that his view of the facts of the case, which he had detailed on former occasions, had not been in the slightest degree altered by any thing that had occurred that evening. One thing at least he was glad to observe on this occasion; namely, that the character of a police officer was more agreeable in the eyes of gentlemen opposite, when he performed his functions abroad, than when he was called on to execute them at home. There appeared to be quite a rush of gentlemen anxious to speak in favour of that character. Captain Romeo was an officer of that description, and, it was alleged, had performed services, under the observation of those military officers, whose names lied that night been quoted. He complained that his services had not been requited; but he would satisfy the house that captain Romeo had not been treated harshly by this government. Now, much as he respected lord W. Bentinck, and disinterested as he believed the declaration of general Campbell to have been, still it was evident that their statement was not founded on inquiry, but was rather matter of opinion. Opposed to their representation, was the statement of sir W. A'Court, the English ambassador at Naples, who had thoroughly investigated all the circumstances of the case; and, from all the information he could obtain, he had come to the conclusion, that the statements laid before the British government by captain Romeo were not well founded. He learned that captain Romeo had sustained no persecution, and that he had been removed from Calabria on account of acts which he had done subsequently to the British troops being in possession of Sicily. Now, it could not be expected that this government was to demand protection for captain Romeo, against the consequences of any acts to which he was a party after the British troops had evacuated Sicily. Sir. W. A'Court had examined all the facts minutely, and was decidedly opposed to general Campbell. The latter gave a loose opinion, that he believed this indivi-
 1260 l., 1261 l.
 Mr. Forbes  thought this was a case which deserved the attention of the British government. There was one circumstance connected with the situation of captain Romeo, which he begged leave to mention, that if it were not true, ministers might contradict it, and set the poor man's mind at ease. He was at present under the greatest apprehension that he would be arrested under the Alien act, and sent out of the country. On Friday last, some persons, who stated themselves to be police officers, had called at the house in which he rented a miserable garret at the rate of 4 s. 1263 l. l. l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he feared the credulity of the hon. gentleman had been imposed upon. With respect to an order for sending this person out of the country under the Alien act, the alarm was totally groundless. He hoped the hon. gentleman would mention the case to which he alluded, and which he seemed to hold out as a threat for extorting a favourable reception of the petition.
 Mr. Forbes  said, he would then ask, whether a pension of 800 l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, it was extraordinary, if there had been so large an outlay, as 2,500 l. 1264
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, was certainly competent to the hon. gentleman to make the present motion, with a view of entering his protest against the principle of the particular vote on the Journals. He thought, however, it would be more convenient, both to the hon. gentleman and to the House, not to discuss the question now, but to reserve his observations till the particular vote came before the committee in the estimates, or when he brought forward his promised motion on the subject.
 Mr. Ward  proceeded to move the Ordnance Estimates. The sum required was 1,244,000 l. l., l. 1266 l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l.; l. l. l.: l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l.; l.: l.; 1267 1268 l., l. 1269 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. l., l. l. l.; l. l.; 1270 l. l. l. l.; l. s. d.
 Mr. Ward  asserted, that, though some offices might be dispensed with, no such sum could be saved in the barrack department as the hon. member had suggested. With regard to the year 1792, he had already taken a view of our Ordnance establishments at that period, and remarked that, upon enumerating all the subtractions which had been made, it appeared there was a diminution in our favour at present of 29 clerks, It was true that the charge of the establishment in Pall-mall had been augmented; but this was in consequence of the very great access of business which had there taken place. An immense portion had been transferred from the out-stations to Pall-mall and the Tower. As to the store-keeper at the Tower, it should be recollected, that be was now the auditor of the store-accounts, and the hon. gentleman seemed not to have noticed, that the sum of 1,800 l. l. l. 1275 l. l, l. l. 1276
 Mr. Ward,  in explanation, observed that most of the appointments were from the officers on half-pay, but that in some cases it was necessary to introduce new persons.
 Lord J. Russell  thought that the testimony of the British generals ought to outweigh that of the Neapolitan government. He was quite sure that the government could have no intention of enforcing the provisions of the Alien act against the petitioner; and he did hope that they would reconsider his case.
 Lord J. Russell  rose to present a petition from an individual whose claims had already been before the House. The petition was from captain Francis Romeo. He was a native of Calabria, had been forced to enter the service of Murat as a private soldier, and was raised some time after to some subordinate rank; but with this circumstance the case had nothing to do. He was employed some time afterwards by the British commanders in Sicily, in a mission of a delicate nature. It was well known that the Queen of Naples was plotting the overturn of the British power in Sicily, in order to aid that of her relative Napoleon. To defeat those plans, captain Romeo was employed, and, according to the testimony of the commanders of the British force in that country, his services had been of considerable advantage to the British interests. For these he had been promoted to a commission in the British service in that country. In 1816, on the restoration of the king of Naples, this gentleman, with the British uniform on his back, and a British passport in his pocket, was seized in the streets of Naples, and thrown into prison. It was said on a former occasion, that he had escaped from prison without trial; but the fact was not so. It was true he was not tried; but, without even the form of a trial, he was transported to Alexandria, in Egypt, and there left in a state of destitution. The whole of his sufferings the petitioner attributed to the services he had rendered to the government of this country. This statement was corroborated by the certificates of lord W. Bentinck, lieut. general Maitland, and of the late lieut. general Campbell; and from these it might be inferred, that all those who were known by the Neapolitan government to have been attached to
 1253 l. 1254 1255
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, it was certainly true that a pension had been granted to lady Torrens. It was in the knowledge of the House that the disposal of pensions to a certain amount formed a part of the constitutional power of the Crown. Sir H. Torrens was well known to the country; and he thought that a pension granted to his lady, as an acknowledgment of his services, would never be considered an improper exercise of the royal prerogative.
 Mr. Ellice  agreed with his hon. friend, that considerable farther reductions were practicable, and that a junction might be advantageously effected between the two establishments at the Tower and in Pall-mall. How was the House to come to a right conclusion on this subject, if they undervalued the recommendations of persons specially appointed by the Crown for the purpose of inquiring, when there was nothing on the other side but the statements of those interested against them? As to the amendment, there was one principle on which he would support it, and every other, directed against an increase of emolument as compared with the year 1796; and that was, unless it could be shown that the business for which it was granted had proportionately increased likewise. No gentleman expected his private property to increase above that standard, and painful as the process must be, the necessities of the country demanded farther reductions. He did not see why the master-general's allowance should not be diminished; sure he was, that if
 1277 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the committee of supply might leave out a particular vote; but it was not within its province to divide upon a general question of colonial policy.
 Mr. Goulburn  was fully convinced, that captain Romeo had received a reward adequate to the nature of the services he had performed. Comparing his claims with those of other individuals, and the remuneration he had obtained with what had been granted to them, there was no disproportion calling for the interposition of the House. The reward assigned to him was that of a subordinate agent, and to those of higher rank little more had been given, although they were more importantly concerned, and had stronger testimonials in their favour. It was to be observed, that while captain Romeo was with the army, employed in collecting and giving information, be received his regular pay; but, long subsequent to the termination of these transactions, he made a demand for losses sustained to the extent of 2,500 l. l. 1258 l.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that he did not deserve the imputation of proposing reductions arbitrarily. He had entered into particulars, and shown how savings might be effected. He even quoted in support of his recommendations the recorded opinion of a commission which had investigated the subject. In the storekeeping department alone, by the adoption of the reforms which the commissioners had pointed out, and which he had re-urged, the whole saving of 10,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that the officers of the Ordnance department had been active in their inquiries, but he was yet unsatisfied with the quantity of reduction effected. He would state his own view of what he thought might have been done, and would then leave the committee to judge between it and that proposed by the right hon. gentleman. Though one or two of the changes which had been effected appeared to him to be likely to produce a beneficial result, he thought that the board for the barrack department was kept up at a very heavy and unnecessary expense; and he should therefore make a motion to get rid of it altogether. He should submit to the committee the expenses of the Ordnance department at different periods, in order to enable it to decide what they ought to be at the present moment, by comparing them with what they had been upon former occasions. He should take the year 1817 as one period, and the year 1796 as the other, and in his view of the Ordnance expenses in those years he should leave out of consideration the amount of stores, and also the charges not provided for by parliament. In 1796, the ordinaries for Ireland amounted, to 22,000 l. l., l., l. 1271 l. l., l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l.; l. l. l., l. 1272 l.; l.; l. 1273 l. l., l.; l., l. l. l. l. l.; l.; l. 1274 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the instruction ought in all fairness to be allowed by the noble lord. It was only to the extent of desiring the attention of the committee to it. The committee could dispose of it as they might think proper. On that ground he should oppose the present motion.
 Mr. Hume  said, the ground which the noble lord took last year, when this subject was introduced to the House, was diametrically opposite to that on which he depended this night. He (Mr. Hume) had contended last year, and would still contend, that captain Romeo performed certain services of a most important nature, at the time the British troops were in possession of Sicily. That fact was not denied; but the noble marquis and the right hon. gentleman both contended, that there was no claim for remuneration. How stood the case? This individual had performed services which the authorities which had been quoted declared to have been useful; and he demanded a recompense for those services. Every person who at that time entered the British service in Sicily had the pledge of the British government, that they would be protected from the government of Naples. Under this pledge, captain Romeo proceeded to Naples, where he was arrested and lost his property; and on account of that loss, he applied to this government for relief. Last year, when he stated these facts, the noble marquis read a letter from sir W. A'Court, in which he stated, "that captain Romeo, after being arrested under the charge of committing some offence against the Neapolitan government, had escaped from prison." At that time, he (Mr. H.) happened to have in his possession, a letter from the Swedish consul, in which it was stated, that he had given captain Romeo a passport to go to Egypt, by direction of the Neapolitan government. This was the escape which captain Romeo had effected; and, when one of the noble lord's facts was so grossly erroneous, it might be inferred,
 1262 l. l.
 Mr. Creevey  said, he should take that opportunity of doing what He had done last session e namely, of directing the attention of the House to a particular item in the Ordnance Estimates, which ought not to be included in theme die alluded to a sum of 4,670 l. s. d. l. 1265 l. s. d.
 Mr. Wilmot  thought the noble lord had overlaid his case, by indulging in a variety of observations which had nothing to do with the petitioner. This question had been already fully debated, and the noble lord would remember, that it was never pretended that captain Romeo had rendered no services. It had, however, been maintained that his services had been duly remunerated. It was to be remembered also, that though captain Romeo might describe himself as a principal, he was, in fact, but a subordinate agent. For what he had done he had been rewarded by a captain's appointment in a Calabrese corps, to consist of 700 men, which had never been embodied. When the war ended, he had been dismissed with a gratuity and two months pay. It was denied by the Neapolitan government, that the transportation of which captain Romeo complained, was the consequence of his connexion with England; and not only was this denied, but the specific causes of that step being taken were distinctly stated, and a series of acts detailed which it had been thought right thus to visit. The noble lord stated that which was calculated to mislead the House when he spoke of captain Romeo having been arrested while wearing the British uniform. If such were the fact, captain Romeo was wearing that uniform when he had no right to wear it. It was said, that the 300 l. l. l. 1256
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that whatever doubts the hon. gentleman might entertain upon the subject, the object of his noble friend was quite clear—to make an appeal to the honour and generosity of the British government. Captain Romeo had rendered eminent services to the British army in a most dangerous situation; and for those services he had been most inadequately rewarded. It was admitted that the individual had rendered valuable services, the main point contended for being that he had acted, not in a principal, but in a subordinate capacity. Supposing this to have been the case, recollecting the nature of the plot which he had discovered, the remuneration had been wholly disproportionate. On this question, however, the hon. gentleman had differed essentially from the officers at that time in command of the British troops in Sicily. Lord W. Bentinck had borne testimony to the "important services intrusted to captain Romeo;" and general Maitland declared, that "it was chiefly by means of captain Romeo that such evidence was obtained as counteracted the mischief which the open enemies and treacherous friends of the British army were plotting against it." General Campbell's certificate was equally clear and decisive. The conspiracy discovered by captain Romeo was of a most formidable kind. The very ringleaders of it were, nevertheless, at this moment enjoying the favour of the court of Naples; nay, the hon. gentleman was too well acquainted with facts to deny that it had reached even the councils and the family of the king of Naples. After the detection of such a system of the blackest treachery, was it worthy of a great and generous nation to talk of an annuity of 50 l. 1257
 Sir R. Wilson  said, that several individuals had been arrested and put to death for treason in Sicily, in consequence of the discovery by captain Romeo of a conspiracy, the object of which was the destruction of the British army. He would ask, whether the frustrating of a conspiracy, which had justified the execution of the head of the police, did not call for a larger recompense than 300 l.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the consideration of the general question with respect to the selling of roasted wheat had been referred to the board of excise, who had not yet come to any decision upon the subject.
 Dr. Lushington  begged to call the attention of the House to a petition which he held in his band. The name of the petitioner was John Barkley, and he was 17 years of age. He was one of those individuals who had fallen victims to the proceedings of that society which had usurped the name of "constitutional." That society had not only brought the petitioner to trial, but had harassed him in the first instance, and had made him undergo a preliminary imprisonment. On the 4th of March last, the petitioner's trial came on before the Common Serjeant and a London jury. Before the trial commenced, his counsel objected to the jury on this ground, that they were not competent to give a fair verdict, because only two days before they had tried and convicted William Vamplew for publishing the identical libel for selling which the petitioner was indicted. The common serjeant was of opinion that the objection was not well-founded. He (Dr. L.) would, however contend that to compel a person to be tried by a jury which had already prejudged his case, was a violation of the first principles of justice. It was laid down by lord Coke, that no person was qualified to sit upon a jury, if he had already been party to a verdict in a cause where the same question had been tried, although between other plaintiffs and de-
 1311 1312 1313
 The Solicitor General  said, with respect to the publication for which the petitioner was tried, that a more blasphemous and seditious libel never issued from the press of this country. Every person who had read the public prints of the day, was aware of the mischievous character of that infamous publication. It was openly declared by Mr. Carlile, the employer of the prisoner, that he would set the law at defiance—that nothing should prevent him from pursuing the career which he had commenced—that though he might be imprisoned, his family one after another, were willing to become martyrs in the cause for which he suffered; and that
 1314 1315
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was no answer to his argument to say, that the publication was of a very dangerous character. He had contended, that, in proportion as the matter of accusation was atrocious, there was the more reason that the individual accused should have a fair trial. He did not stand up to justify the publication—he had always opposed himself to the doctrines which it contained; but he felt himself bound to look to the mode and manner in which the trial was conducted, and having considered it, he stated what he felt; namely, that the defendant had not received a fair trial.
 Mr. Western,  in seconding the motion of his hon. colleague, begged permission to go a little farther into the consideration of the subject. When on former occasions, it was under the consideration of the House, the noble lord opposite had declared, that it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to apply a remedy to the evil of which the petitioners complained. Neither he nor the petitioners doubted that his majesty's ministers would consider the subject, and devise a remedy; but it was most desirable, as the petitioners stated, that the legislature should immediately proceed to pay attention to this important subject. He did not wish unnecessarily to touch on a subject which fell within the province of the learned gentlemen opposite, and of other individuals of high rank and eminence in the law; neither did he want to interfere with the important duties of the learned judges; but the attention of the petitioners, some of whom were magistrates of the county, had been directed to this subject, in consequence of the hardship and inconvenience which the existing system produced. They found, on examining the gaol-calendar, that generally one-half of the persons brought to trial at the Lent assizes were
 1317 Nisi Prius 1318
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that any one who had read the petition, or had heard the speech of the hon. member for Essex, could not fail to be impressed with the importance of the subject of which it treated. He conceived that nothing could
 1319 1320
 Mr. Leycesler  said, he had heard with
 1321 fiat,
 The Attorney General  said, he was fully aware of the inconvenience suffered under the existing state of the law; but, in proportion as it was important, they ought not to adopt any scheme to amend it without adequate deliberation. The difficulty of dealing with the evil in question might be judged of, from the circumstance or there being such various opinions as to the mode of remedying it. An experiment was to be tried upon the home counties; and he was sure that it could not be extended farther without new modelling the courts, and increasing the number of judges. In all they did, they must, above all, take care that justice was administered satisfactorily to the people. Justice must be done without hurry; and the people must feel that they had the best talents of the judges. The situation of a judge should be an inducement to gentlemen of the highest talents at the bar. The judges had little enough leisure at present; and if they increased their burthens, no gentleman sufficiently qualified would accept the situation. After the experiment had been tried, the House would be better able to judge whether it should be continued or extended.
 Dr. Lushington  agreed, that no alteration ought to be made in the number of the judges, except upon the most mature consideration; but, if after the experiment should be tried, the judges were found incapable of bearing farther burthens, then he hoped the House would consent to increase their number. There had been periods in our history when the number of judges was greater. In the century before the last, there had been five judges in each court, and at one period six. When it was considered that the judges returned in October from the circuits, and that the next session began in November, it could not be supposed that they could bear additional labour at that period. No
 1325
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the plan suggested by his right hon. friend was sufficiently confined to insure all the advantages of local convenience, without hazarding its ultimate success by too extensive a scale of operation. The experiment on the northern circuit afforded an illustration of his argument; for in that instance a cautious, but not less accelerative system had been adopted; and the plan was not extended at first to all the counties included in that circuit. A still greater degree of caution was necessary in the present instance; and it would be dangerous to rush at once into so extensive an experiment as that of extending a third assize to all the counties in England. The country with which he was connected, looked with much anxiety to the result of this experiment; for there were many counties in Ireland where the calendars pressed as heavily upon the judges as they did in this country. His right hon. friend could not have given a stronger pledge to the House of the sincerity with which the government had entered on this measure than by beginning upon such a scale as would enable him to place it upon the most advantageous practical principle, and to carry it most speedily into effect.
 Mr. Bernal  said, the object of his hon. friend was, not to refuse the sums necessary to support the island of Barbadoes, but to see that those sums were taken from a proper source. He contended that the 4½ per cent fund ought to be applied to the expenses of the island. With reference to the act of Charles 2nd, it was one of atrocious and tyrannical extortion; and one of the articles of lord Clarendon's impeachment was founded upon that lord's defence of the king's conduct towards the island.
 Mr. Marryat  contended that it would be very hard on the colony of Barbadoes, because we had taken from them the fund which belonged to them, to call upon them to provide a fresh fund for the purposes of the colony. If a motion were brought forward on the subject of the misapplication of the 4½ per cent fund, it should have his support; but there was not a shadow of justice in refusing to the colony the supplies necessary for its defence.
 Mr. Williams  agreed, that the fortifications ought to be kept in repair by the king out of the 4½ per cent duties, and not by money drawn out of the pockets of the people of this country.
 Mr. Sykes  thought that the experiment which had been so successfully tried in the four northern counties, might be advantageously extended to the other parts of the kingdom.
 Sir Eliab Harvey  rose, to present a petition from the grand jury of Essex, the object of which was so clear and distinct, that it required very few observations in its support. The petitioners called on the House to devise some means by which general gaol deliveries should be rendered more frequent in the county of Essex. At present, it happened that individuals remained in gaol from six to nine months before they were discharged. He held in his hand the calendar of the last Lent assizes, from which it appeared that, from the termination of the summer assizes, early in August, until the 13th of November, 22 prisoners were committed, whose trials could not take place until the following Lent assizes. Six of that number were acquitted, and two were discharged by public proclamation, no prosecutor appearing. It was a great hardship on the individuals who were thus imprisoned for many months; and it was also a heavy expense to the county. The length of time also which elapsed between the commitment and the trial, deterred many persons from prosecuting. He moved, that the petition be brought up.
 Mr. Bright  would not enter into the controversy, whether or not the Crown had perverted the 4½ per cent duties. It was a very fit subject for inquiry at another moment; but he thought the country was bound to maintain the fortifications at Barbadoes, and he must therefore support the present grant.
 Mr. Abercromby  was of opinion that the act required amendment. As it at pre, sent stood, it went the monstrous length of declaring that if any person should discover a substitute for coffee, no matter how wholesome or economical, he should not be allowed to sell it.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the accounts of repairs and current expenses in some of the colonies, were so complicated, that it was almost impossible to know how the various sums were applied; and therefore, instead of going into minute details, his objection should be to the large account. He had moved for certain returns, which would elucidate some parts; but they had not been produced. The only account he had was from Demerara, and he would take that as a specimen of the current accounts in the other colonies. In the estimates for that colony was a sum of 1,879 l. l. l. l. 1363 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1364 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Dr. Phillimore  rose and addressed the House as follows;* * From the original edition printed for John Murray, Albemarle-street. 1327 * The 32 H. 8, c. 38, cannot be so considered; it declared, that all persons might lawfully marry, but such as were prohibited by God's law; and that all marriages contracted by lawful persons in the face of the church, and consummate with bodily knowledge, and the fruit of children, should be indissoluble; but it did not lay down any general law for the regulation of marriage. † It is not my wish to have it understood, that an alteration of the law was never contemplated before this period; for I find that by an order of 31st March 1677, Dr. Lloyd and Dr. Exton (two eminent civilians of that day) were summoned to attend the Lords' committee, to consider of an act to prevent clandestine marriages; and, I believe, that soon after the Revolution a bill to prevent clandestine marriages passed the House of Lords, but was lost in the House of Commons. 1328 de facto i. e., per verba de prcesenti * 1 Inst. 79. † Decret. lib. 4, tit. 2, cap. 3, 4. The probability is, that both the common and the canon law derived their rules on this head from the Justinian Code. Cod. 5,60. 3.—Dig. 23, 1–14. ‡ Si inter virum et mulierem legitimus consensus interveniat de  prœsenti, § rom the age of seven to the age of 1329 twelve, as to the woman; and fourteen as to the man, they cannot contract matrimony  de præsenti, de futuro. *4th and 5th, Ph. and M. made every man liable to fine and imprisonment, who married a woman child under sixteen years of age; and gave her estate during her husband's lifetime to the next heir;—but the marriage was indissoluble. By the 6th and 7th Will. 3rd, c. 6th; 7th and 8th. Will. 3rd, 35, 10th Ann. c. 19, various penalties were imposed on clergymen who married parties without publication or banns or without license. † See the 62nd Canon. ‡ A marriage with a person who was under a præ-contract to another person, was placed on the footing of a marriage with one who had already a husband or wife. 1330 * Blackstone's Commentaries, Vol. 1. p. 438. † It was stated, in the course of the debates on the Marriage Act, in the House of Commons, as an authenticated fact, that 6,000 marriages had taken place, within one year, in the chapel in the Fleet prison. See Parl. V. 15, p. 19. 1331 * It was opposed by the duke of Bedford, and eleven or twelve peers. † Perhaps I ought to have excepted the Jews Naturalization Bill. ‡ See Hardwicke papers; the account is given in a letter from Dr. Birch to Mr. Philip York. and will be found in the parliamentary History, v. 15, p. 84. 1332 per verba de prœsenti, * The law of præ-contracts, in Ireland, was not repealed till the 58th Geo. III. c. 81. 1333 tractu temporis non convalescunt. * King v. Inhabitants of Preston; 2 Burrows, 827, 1 Blackstone, 192. 1334 ab initio. 1335 nati natorum * He is the  de facto ab initio, † The case of Watson  v. ‡ Only two instances occur to my recollection, in which I have observed that the license has been obtained upon the oath of the woman. 1336 * Qui aliter, quam præsente Parocho, vel alio sacerdote de ipsius parochi, seu ordinarii licentiâ, et duobus vel tribus testibus, matrimonium contrahere attentabunt: eos sancta synodus ad sic contrahendum omnio inhabiles reddit; et hujusmodi contractus irritos et nullus esse decernit, prout cos præsenti decreto irritos facit et annullat.—Can. et Dec. Conc. Trid., Sess. 25, c. 1. † 9 Geo. 2, c. 11.—By this act marriages and matrimonial contracts, where either of the parties are under the age of twenty-one, without consent of the 1337 ab initio; father, or, if dead, of the guardian, given in writing under his hand, or if there be no guardian, of the lord chancellor; are declared to be null and void,  if l. l.; l. l. l., l. l. * Sect. 3.—"Provided always, that if no such suit be commenced within one year after the solemnization of such marriage, or the making of such matrimonial contract, such marriage or matrimonial contract shall,  from the expiration of the said year, be good and valid, † Delegates, 1789. ‡ Delegates, 1809. 1338 * I rather apprehend that I may have inaccurately stated the date of the final sentence in this case; the proceedings are not at this moment within my reach, but I believe that the cause, though in substance decided in April 1820, stood over for further evidence as to one fact till a later period; the issue of the suit is correctly stated. † This suit was brought by the woman. ‡ 12 Car. 2, cap. 24, sec. 8. 1339 * From a note I have of this case, it appears that the following amongst other expressions fell from the learned person who pronounced judgment in this case: "This marriage was not clandestinely had, but it is admitted, that the woman was a minor, married by the consent of the mother who was supposed to be a widow. The father was in fact then living, he is still living, and he only could legally give consent; without his consent the marriage is null and void. Eighteen years after the celebration of the marriage, without any alleged impropriety, this proceeding is instituted, not at the suit of the husband, as more frequently happens, but at that of the wife. It does not appear whether there is any issue. It is the duty of the court to be completely satisfied that the marriage was a mere nullity: if it was, I have only to pronounce it to be such. The marriage took place on the 29th of May, 1800. The woman was rather under twenty years of age; her mother consented to it; there is no suggestion of any fraud; but there is no doubt as to the minority; the very circumstance of her being married as a minor With the consent of her mother, establishes that fact. The want of the consent of the father is proved. Though the parties did contract marriage, and were connusant of each other's age, yet either of them have a right to a sentence from this court, declaratory of the nullity: indeed, no such sentence is necessary; but it is a matter of convenience to the parties, and a duty to the public, to declare the situation in which this man and woman stand, to each other." 1340 ipso facto 1341 versus * Mr. Justice Le Blanc and Mr. Justice Bayley concurred with lord Ellenborough in this judgment. Mr. Justice Grose was dissentient from it. He considered the consent to the marriage of an illegitimate minor to be a  casus omissus In the King v. the inhabitants of Hodnet, 1st Term Reports, p. 96. The marriage of an illegitimate minor by license was held to be null and void under the Marriage act, but in that case no consent was given by any one, and the question was expressly decided by lord Mansfield on that ground. † See Dr. Croke's report of the case of Horner v. Liddiard, Consistory of London, 1799. She was described in the license as Harriet Liddiard, otherwise Whitelock, a minor; and, it was stated that the marriage was about to be solemnized by and with the consent of Sarah Liddiard her mother and guardian. The marriage took place on the 7th of March, 1796. The suit was instituted in February, 1799. ‡ East. Term Reports, p. 1. 1342 * It consists with my knowledge that 1343 within the period alluded to, suits for nullity of marriage on this ground, have been entertained in the Peculiars Court of Canterbury, in the Consistory court of York, in the Court of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, in the Consistory of Rochester, &c. &c. It is to be observed also, and it is worthy of the most serious consideration, that causes of nullity involving such important rights of property, and affecting, as they do, the legitimacy of issue, as well as the validity of the marriage bond, must frequently be decided in the country Ecclesiastical courts (which unfortunately abound throughout England), by persons who have had no opportunity of acquiring legal knowledge and experience, but whose sentence nevertheless, if not appealed from, is as valid and conclusive as it would have been if it had been pronounced by either of the learned judges who preside over the Ecclesiastical courts at Doctors Commons. 1344 * 23 George II., cap. 10 (Irish), was passed for the purpose of explaining and making more effectual the 9th of George II., cap. 11. (Irish). The following is the clause to which I allude: "And whereas since the making the said act, many persons intending to avoid the force and effect thereof, and to evade the same, have left this kingdom or absconded to avoid the service of process in a suit, to be instituted pursuant to the said act for annulling such marriage or matrimonial contract: be it enacted by the king's most excellent majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal and Commons in this present parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, That from and after the 29th day of September 1750, it 1345 shall and may be lawful to and for the father, guardians, or guardian of such infant, who shall marry without such consent as aforesaid, and the parties entering into the same or either of them, shall leave this kingdom or abscond, by which means it may be difficult to serve process in a suit to be instituted for annulling such marriage or matrimonial contract; or in such case, if there be no father or guardian, for any person or persons to be appointed by the lord chancellor, the keeper or commissioners the great seal, for that purpose within one year after such marriage or matrimonial contract, file an allegation in the ecclesiastical court of the diocese, where such infant was usually resident before his or her going out of this kingdom, or entering into such marriage or matrimonial contract, in the same manner as if the necessary parties had appeared in a suit instituted in the said court to annul such marriage or matrimonial contract; which ecclesiastical court shall thereupon issue process to compel the persons so marrying or entering into such matrimonial contract, to appear in the same court within a time therein to be limited, and shall have full power to proceed to hear and determine the said cause, in the same manner as if the parties thereto were resident, and the said marriage or matrimonial contract entered into within the said diocese, if it shall appear by affidavit that such process was served in the usual manner on the said parties, whether in this kingdom or in any parts out of this kingdom; and, if it shall appear in the said suit by proper proof, that the said recited marriage or matrimonial contract was contrary to the said act, such marriage or matrimonial contract should be adjudged and declared by the ecclesiastical court where such suit shall be commenced, to be absolutely null and void to alt intents and purposes. 1346 * In the first bill I brought on this subject (in 1817), there was no such permission. 1347 dehors jus adulterare 1348 malum in se, de facto 1349 certiorari ab initio. * The king  v. † See Parliamentary History vol. 22, p. 370. ‡ Bishop Horsley in one of his charges to the clergy of the diocese of St. Asaph, gives the following account of the bringing in of this bill: "However, my reverend brethren, you may put your minds at ease, and the parties so unlawfully married may put their minds at ease, if it may give ease to your minds to know that all that is past, is pardoned and obliterated; and to theirs to know, that the knot so loosely tied at first is now drawn tight and hard, and made indissoluble, and that the legitimacy of their offspring is secured." "In the spring of 1801, I carried two bills through parliament. The one is a general act, the 77th chapter of the 44th of the king, intituled 'An Act to render valid certain marriages solemnized in certain churches and public chapels in which banns had not usually been published before, or at the time of passing an act made in the 26th year of the reign of his late majesty king George the Second, intituled 'An Act for the better preventing Clandestine Marriages.' The other specially relates to the chapel of Voélas. It is the, 1350 de facto, de jure; 88th chapter of those acts of the same year of the king which are local and personal, but to be judicially noticed. It is intituled 'An Act for enabling the officiating minister for the time being of the Chapel of Voélas, in the county of Denbigh, to publish banns and solemnize marriages in the said chapel.'" "By the former, the public act, all marriages solemnized in public chapels in which banns had not usually been published, without any other deviation from the provisions of the Marriage act, before the 25th day of March 1805, are made good and valid; and the clergymen who so solemnized them are indemnified against the penalties of the Marriage act; and, the registers of such marriages are made good and lawful evidence in all courts of law and equity. But it is farther enacted, 'that the registers of all such marriages as hereby are made to be valid in law, shall within fourteen days next after the said 25th of March 1805, be removed to the parish church of the parish in which such chapel shall be situate; or in the case of a chapel extra-parochially situate, then to the, parish church next adjoining to such extra-parochial place.'" "I hope the provisions of this statute 1351 dictum communis error facit jus, have been attended to; and, you will take special notice, that the benefit of this statute comes down only to the 25th of March, 1805. If, since that day any marriages have been or shall be solemnized in chapels in which banns had not been usually published before the passing of the act of the 26th of George the Second, all such marriages are still null and void, as they would have been if this act of mine never had been passed; the clergymen so solemnizing them are not indemnified; and, the registers are not evidence in any court of law and equity."—Bishop Horsley's Charges, p. 205. More marriages of the same description occurred, and they gave rise to the 48 Geo. III. c. 27, which was to the same purport, and had the effect of legalizing all the void marriages of the same description, which had occurred subsequently to the passing of bishop Horsley's act. The legislature has, in other instances, passed bills to give validity to  de facto 1352 ipso facto, The 58 Geo. III. c. 84, after stating that doubts had arisen respecting the validity of marriages solemnized within the British territories of India, by ministers of the church of Scotland, declared, that all marriages of that description, heretofore had and solemnized, should be adjudged, esteemed, and taken to have been of the same effect, as if they had been solemnized by ministers of the church of England. The 21st and 22nd Geo. III. c. 25, (Irish) was passed to give retrospective effect and validity to the marriages of many Protestant dissenters, which were supposed to be nullities in law. The preamble stated, "That whereas the removing doubts that may have arisen concerning the validity of matrimonial contracts or marriages entered into between Protestant Dissenters, and solemnized by Protestant Dissenting ministers, will tend to the peace and tranquillity of many Protestant Dissenters and their families;" and then proceeded to enact "that all matrimonial contracts and marriages heretofore entered into, or hereafter to be entered into, between Protestant Dissenters, and solemnized or celebrated by Protestant Dissenting ministers or teachers shall be, and shall be held and taken to be good and valid to all intents and purposes whatsoever." 1353 infinitum; bona fide 1354 *The act was entituled, "an act to discontinue the proceedings on certain actions already commenced, and to prevent vexatious actions under the 43rd of the king." 1355 felo de se, * They were an institution of the council of Lateran; the publication of them is thus enjoined by the council of Trent: "Idcirco sacri Lateranensis Concilii Sub Innocentio III. celebrati, vestigiis inhærendo præcipit, ut in posterum, antequam matrimonium contrahatur, ter à proprio contrahentium parocho tribus continuis diebus festivis in ecclesiâ inter misarum solemnia publicè denuntietur, inter quos matrimonium sit contrahendum."—Con. et Dec. Con. Trid. Sess. 26. c. 1. † One of our most approved canonists thus records an antient constitution of the church on this subject, and the reason of its enactment:—"In matrimonio quoque contrahendo semper tribus diebus Dominicis, vel festivis à se distantibus, quasi tribus edictis, perquirant Sacerdotes à populo  de immunitate sponsi et sponsœ. 1356 * Since the second reading of this bill, I have been informed by a clergyman resident in the county of Kent, that in the month of February last, eleven persons, all belonging to his parish, and all but one under age, had their banns published at the same sime, in the church of another parish, in the same county in which they had never resided, for the purpose of being clandestinely married. I mention it as one among a thousand instances of this sort which have been transmitted to me upon authority on which I can rely. † Unless fraud can be shewn in the use of the names under which the banns are published, as, for instance, in the case of Pouget v. Tomkins, (Ecclesiast. Rep. vol. i. p. 499,) where a lad of 16 was married to his mother's maid, under a publication of banns made in the church of St. Andrew's, Holborn, in which parish neither of the parties were resident, and there was no chance of their names being recognized. This marriage was set aside, because the banns were published under 1357 the names of William Pouget only, whereas the lad's real names were William Peter Pouget; and it was proved that Peter was the name by which he was familiarly known to his relations and friends. The court considered this omission as fraudulent, and annulled the marriage. But in another case, where a boy under 18, who had just left Eton, and was resident at his father's seat in Buckinghamshire, was married to an obscure person, resident in a neighbouring parish, after a publication of banns in a church in the borough of Southwark, in which it was almost impossible that either of them should be recognized; the court held, that it had no authority to dissolve the marriage, though the clergyman, struck with the youthful appearance and demeanour of the lad, twice stopped, in the course of the ceremony, to question the parties as to their age and residence, which questions were specifically, but falsely, replied to by the mother of the woman about to be married: but, as in this instance, no fraud could be proved in the use of the names, the court held that the proclamation of the banns was not vitiated. It is not intended to dispute the correctness of the conclusion of law, in either of these cases, but, assuredly, on principle there is no ground for the law to make such a distinction, in cases where the fraudulent nature of the transaction admits of no doubt. 1358 * I insert a letter I have just received from the incumbent of a very populous parish in the north of England, as affording an excellent specimen of the statements I have received on this subject from, very many quarters: "You have directed your attention particularly to the facilities which are given to improper and clandestine mar- 1359 sui juris riages, by the present defective provision relating to the publication of banns. As a parochial clergyman, I have had the opportunity of witnessing some of the defective provisions, and I beg to add my testimony to that of many others of greater weight, which I dare say you have received, in complaint of the evils for which you are proposing a remedy. "It is possible, however, that your attention may have been excited principally by the inconvenience of the present state of the law, as it effects marriages, in which one of the parties at least is in some of the higher conditions of life. I am desirous of bespeaking your notice in behalf of the lower classes, who take this freedom which the law leaves to them, but did not mean to give them, of marrying in a very disorderly way. "You propose, I believe, to make it a compulsory duty on the side of the clergyman, to verify the names, residence, and condition of the parties. It is for want of some such imperative regulation that the disorderly practices, which I allude to, among the lower classes, prevail. Any marriages may now be effected without the knowledge of parents, friends, or public. The parties have only to send their names to certain populous parishes, where they have leave to get their banns published without scrutiny, and in the multitude of names published, and the obscurity of the persons in question, there is an easy concealment of any project of marriage. It is not necessary for the parties to assume fictitious names; the concealment passes as a matter of course under the looseness of the practice. "It would be a sufficient objection to 1360 this lax, practice, that the clergyman is made often to utter a solemn untruth in, the face of the congregation, as to the residence of the parties, who get named without residence at all in the place where their banns are published; and that the intention of the law to give some notoriety to the intended marriage, by publication of banns, is utterly defeated. But in all this country nothing is more common. It is often a fancy or humour of the parties, that they will be married in the town, and not in the country, or in the place where they live. It costs them no trouble, no-change of abode, to indulge their wish. Sometimes they come home married, and take their friends by surprise. In my own parish not a year passes without instances of these clandestine marriages. In all the neighbouring country parishes the case is the same. "The evil of these frauds is not confined to indiscreet and undutiful marriages, contracted without the advice or privity of friends; it goes to worse things; you will easily see how unions of bigamy, and others highly improper and unlawful, are promoted. I know an instance of a person living near to me, married to the daughter of his deceased wife, a daughter by a former husband; and also the case of a person married to his niece—these marriages having taken place in churches, of other populous parishes, near the places where the parties lived. For such abuses it is sincerely to be wished you may be able to provide a remedy, by bringing the law of marriage to be more favourable to the peace and virtue of families. * In the last three months of 1817, the banns of 284 couple were published in the parish church of Mary-le-bone, and of 1361 de navo: these 568 persons all, except two, were stated to reside in the parish, whereas the great; majority of them were non-residents. 1362
 Mr. P. Moore  contended, that his hon. friend had made good his position, that the funds arising from this 4½ per cent duty had been dissipated by official profligacy, and that now, when the fortifications of Barbadoes were out of repair, the people of England were called upon to advance the expenses.
 Mr. Creevey  said, that nothing was so extraordinary as to hear the conditions of one act of parliament, which were in their nature and terms imperative, attempted to be construed by the analogy of other acts, which had no application whatever to Barbadoes. What signified to him what had been the 50 years practice of swindling and stealing in defiance of the Barbadoes act? [Murmurs from the ministerial benches]. He liked those murmurs, and wished that the people could hear them.
 Mr. Creevey  said, he should propose an amendment relative to the grant for the fortifications of Barbadoes. Strong as the case was that he had made out on this subject on former occasions, it was at present far stronger than it had ever been before; for the committee had now a distinct admission from a member of his majesty's government, that in cases where works were carried on that were necessary for the service of a colony, the colony was to be called upon to sustain a portion of their expense. Such at least was the doctrine proposed regarding the island of Demerara; and that brought him to consider the case of the island of Barbadoes. The public was now called upon to pay 4,000 l. 1366 nil. l. l. s. d.
 Mr. Dickinson  was sorry to express his disappointment at finding that the measure of his hon. friends, the members for Essex, was not likely to be adopted, and that one so contracted in its circumference, and so narrow in its view with regard to its real object, was intended to supply its place. He had known many instances of the grievance complained of, one of which occurred now; a boy of twelve years old was accused by another boy of a felony; he was committed in the month of August; he was all the winter in gaol; and in the month of April he was discharged, for the grand jury found no bill. What good sense was there in saying that this remedy should be applied to Hertfordshire, a county purely agricultural, and where the criminals were notoriously few; and that it should not be extended to Somerset-shire, where, from the population, crimes were committed in the largest number,
 1322 celerem et plenam justitiam,
 Mr. Peel  rose, merely to supply an omission in his previous statement with respect to the new circumstances in which it would occasionally place some of the judges. Nothing could be more remote from the intentions of government than to subject them to any additional expense; and he felt confident that if additional expense should arise from the proposed system, that House would most readily make it good.
 W. Smith  said, that not one, but experiments, ought to be made, rather than leave the prevailing system without a remedy. A case had lately occurred,
 1324
 Mr. Wilmot  maintained, that there was a wide difference between the cases of Demerara and Barbadoes. The repairs in the latter case were of a military nature; but in the former they were made for the purpose of conferring advantage upon the chief town of the colony. Alluding to what had fallen from the hon. member, regarding the insular situation of Demerara, he must take the liberty of correcting the geography of the hon. member. On looking to his map, he would find that the insular situation of Demerara was to be found nowhere except in his fertile imagination. The hon. secretary then proceeded to contend that the 4½ per cent duties were not applicable to the purposes which Mr. Creevey had mentioned. Those duties had been given to the Crown, in exchange for certain concessions which it had made to the colony. In proof of this assertion, he referred to the colonial act of 1663, and to certain other papers of which he read extracts to the House. Upon a reference to the whole of these acts, he could see nothing whatever to establish the proposition, that the 4½ per cent duties were given to the king, for the purpose of being applied exclusively to the colonial purposes of the islands. He must argue this question upon the analogy furnished
 1367
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that as the objection had been raised to the item for the expenses of the dam of Demerara, he felt it necessary to repeat the information which he had given to the hon. member upon a' former occasion, and with which he was
 1365
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that this subject was of the highest important to the country, and he had heard with pleasure that a scheme was in contemplation, by which a great portion of the inconvenience would be removed. Even at the last assizes for Kent, it was found impossible to get through the business which had accumulated. One judge could not perform the whole; and so numerous were the criminal cases, that 13 out of 28  nisi prius
 Mr. Chetwynd  said, that there years had elapsed since his hon. friend the member for Essex first called the attention of this House and the public to this important subject; and although the original proposition was not acceded to, it was generally understood, that some plan by way of experiment was contemplated by his majesty's government to remedy the evils complained of; otherwise, petitions to a similar effect would ere this have emanated from other counties. If it be a maxim of our law, as stated in a book of the highest authority, that "dilatio justitiæ est quædam negatio"—if there be any truth in the saying of a wise king of old, that, "because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is set in them to do evil;" and if it be for the advancement of the commonwealth that justice should be speedily and promptly executed, there cannot be two opinions as to the expediency and necessity of a more frequent delivery of our gaols, and that measures should be adopted to prevent the possibility of an innocent individual being im-
 1323
 Sir R. Wilson,  seeing the secretary of the Treasury in his place, wished to call his attention to a circumstance of considerable importance. He had received a letter from a person who was now detained in prison for nonpayment of a fine which had been imposed upon him for selling Roasted Wheat, not with an intent to defraud the revenue, but  bonâ fide 1310 l.,
 Lord G. Somerset  said, that the petition was by no means signed by the most respectable inhabitants of the town of Monmouth: he could not look upon it as a petition coming from the commonalty of that town; he did not see, that it contained any objectionable passages, however he might differ from the sentiments it contained.
 Mr. G. Bennet  could not go the length of saying, that there was no petition, whatever its language might be, but what the House was bound to receive. The question then was, whether the petition presented by his gallant friend had come before them with a fair case made out, and a statement of grievances, for the purpose of obtaining redress; or whether it was conceived in language that was insulting to the House? This was the only test by which to try any petition; and. the result of its application in this instance was, that the petitioners had a fair case, and had properly stated their grievances. They began by disclaiming all intention of insult, and they alluded to a declaration (that the sale of seats was as notorious as the sun at noon-day) which most undoubtedly had been made in that House by no less a person than the late Mr. Ponsonby. If any one could doubt the fact for a moment, he would take upon himself to prove it at the bar of the House in less than ten minutes. Besides, the petitioners did not state a case, as if it was put on their own authority; but they stated it,
 1373
 Mr. Bernal  said, there was no proof or allegation before the House, that there had been any delay or denial of justice in the court alluded to. There had been no complaint preferred by any suitor that justice had been mal-administered, and in the absence of any such complaint why should a motion be adopted that would impeach the character of the present county clerk, whose character was highly respectable? This county clerk (Mr. Heath) had, it was said, a salary of from 1500 l. l. l.
 Mr. Bennet  said, it was impossible, from the very showing of the officer himself, that substantial justice could be done to the suitors in this court. It appeared that the court sat two days in the week, to try causes which averaged 17,000 in the course of the year, and which, including summonses, amounted to about 200 cases for each day of sitting. The commissioner might be a very intelligent person, and extremely anxious to do his duty, but the return plainly proved that the business of the court could not be performed in that
 1377
 The Solicitor-General  considered this motion as irregular. No petition had been presented, imputing any misconduct to the judge, impugning the conduct of the subordinate officer, or stating that there had been any denial of justice in this court. The hon. gentleman had not, therefore, made out any parliamentary ground for inquiry. The hon. member for Shrewsbury had stated, that the jurymen were selected from a class of persons who were not fit to sit on Juries. He was inclined to think that the hon. member had been misinformed; for, by the act of parliament, the juries in this court were selected from the same class of persons as decided on cases in Westminster-hall. By the same act it was provided, if any misconduct appeared in the proceedings of this court, that two of his majesty's chief justices should have the liberty of investigating the matter complained of, and of remedying the evil where the complaint appeared to be well founded. The constitution of this court had been selected by Mr. Justice Blackstone, as the subject of particular praise. The largeness of the fees demanded was complained of. Now, one of the reasons which induced Mr. Justice Blackstone to praise the constitution of the court, was the moderate rate of the fees? If greater fees were demanded than the act autho-
 1378 s. d. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1379
 Lord G. Somerset  contended that information was as good as that, of the hon. gentleman, and if it were correct the majority of the burgesses had not signed the petition.
 Mr. F. Palmer  treated the College as an excrescence, which, if it would not yield to mild applications, must be attacked in the way of radical cure. It was impossible for the country, distressed as it was, to support the charge of such an establishment.
 Sir H. Hardinge  observed, that the hon. member had made a most erroneous statement with respect to the cadets educated at the Military College. He had stated the whole number in the college, since the peace, to be 1,764. Now, in this the hon. member made a mistake of not less than from 1,200 to 1,300. The hon. member's peculiar and felicitous mode of calculation was this—he took the number of cadets in the college, for each year of the five or six years, and he added them up, giving the sum total as the number of cadets in the college for that time. Nothing could be more erroneous, and the hon. member should have known, before he made this statement, that more than one year was necessary for completing the education of a cadet; that it took four years, and therefore, in adding together the numbers in every year, the hon.
 1380
 Mr. Hume  said, he would restate his facts, and maintain their correctness, viz. that in the five years, 1816 to 1820 inclusive, there had been each year from 412 to 290 cadets educated at the public expense—at an expense of 115,280 l.; l. 1381 l., l.
 Mr. Hume  begged to correct the misstatement of a noble lord who had said that this petition was not signed by the majority of the commonalty of Monmouth. Though the names of the noble lord's friends and supporters might not appear at the foot of it, it certainly was subscribed by the majority.
 Mr. Hume  objected to a grant to that amount. The mere salaries of officers at this College exceeded 6,000 l. l. l., l., l., l., l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had always understood, that it was the right of the people to petition parliament; but be never heard before that it was the right of parliament to reject their petitions. They were bound to hear them read; and then, if any thing appeared to be inadmissible, they might reject them. He had not heard a single improper word in that part of the petition from Bethnall-green which had been read by the gallant officer. It contained truths, though they might be unpalatable ones. In the petition which he now held in his hand, the petitioners humbly set forth that they considered a reform of parliament absolutely necessary for the salvation of the country; and they prayed that it might be speedily effected.
 Mr. Hume  said he had a petition to present for a reform of parliament, from the Mayor, and Commonalty of Monmouth; but after the extraordinary course which the House had pursued with respect to the last petition, he did not well know what to do with it. It was the right of the people to call for a reform of parliament, and he would say, that the circumstance which had just occurred sheaved the necessity of that reform. To reject a petition without hearing it read, was contrary to the just rights and privileges of the people. Reform might be put off by temporary expedients, but it could not be defeated; the principle was working and would ultimately triumph. He could not but consider it a marked insult on the people, to dismiss their petition even without hearing it read.
 Mr. Lennard  said, he had to call the attention of the House to a subject of considerable importance to the working classes of the county of. Middlesex. By the 23rd Geo. 2nd the county court of Middlesex was constituted in its present form. The object of the court was, to facilitate the recovery of small debts not exceeding 40 s. 1375 l. s. d. s. l.; 1376
 Mr. Lennard  said, that nothing was further from his intention than to cast any imputation upon the gentleman who now held the office in question. But if the House granted him a committee, he pledged himself to prove the charges which he had made against the office generally.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  seconded the bringing up of this petition, for the sake of pointing out the great difference between it and that which the House had just rejected. It was said that the House had rejected a petition without hearing its language; but he would appeal to the gallant officer, whether, in the passage which he had read, it was not his meaning to call the attention of the House to the language? He did conceive, that those who contended for the unlimited admission of petitions, whatever the language might be in which they were couched, were, in truth, the most formidable enemies of the sacred right of petition. He valued the right of petition as much as the hon. member for Aberdeen could do; but he thought that hon. gentleman was quite wrong in saying that the House had no right to reject petitions, numerous instances having occurred within his own memory, in which such a right had been exercised.
 Mr. Dickinson  expressed his disapprobation of the terms in which the petition was conceived. They were highly disrespectful, and it was not true that "boys"
 1371
 Mr. Dickinson  re-stated his objections to the petition which had been rejected. It was affirmed in the body of it, that "boys" were brought into parliament to vote. Now, this was not fact. By the term "boys," an indifferent person would naturally suppose, that striplings under age were intended. Every hon. gentleman well knew that the youngest members of that House were between 21 and 25; and that of these, there were very few. He believed there was but one instance, in which an individual had been admitted to sit in that House, being under the age prescribed by law. He alluded to the
 1374
 The Speaker  said, that the House could not suffer persons outside the walls of parliament to cast improper reflections upon it. Inside these walls he was sure that hon. gentlemen would speak of its proceedings with decency.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he was the last man to support any petition that might seem to convey any thing like an insult upon the House. In the case before them, however, the petitioners made no direct allegation. They merely affirmed, that such a report had gone abroad. In his opinion, the House would neglect its duty, if it persevered in rejecting petitions without hearing them read.
 Sir R. Wilson  presented a petition from the inhabitants of Bethnal-green, praying for a remission of the sentence on Mr. Hunt. The petition had been signed by a thousand inhabitants in the course of a few hours. It complained of the aggravated treatment which Mr. Hunt had received in violation of the directions of the judge, and it stated the great service which Mr. Hunt had conferred on the country by detecting the abuses which existed in the gaol of Ilchester. It commented severely on the conduct of a certain clerical magistrate; and certainly, if the charges brought against that magistrate were well founded, he appeared to be a most rigid disciplinarian, and one who attended but little to the precepts of the religion which he professed to teach. There was one paragraph in the petition, which would probably call forth some observation. In that paragraph a distinction was taken between two classes of members in that House, which, he believed, was sufficiently well ascertained and understood in the country. It was well known that House was composed of two descriptions of members; one class nominated by their constituents, and who represented the people; the other sent there to represent individuals and particular private interests—one class who were free agents; the other, who were the organs of the will of others—one class, who really attended to the debates in that House, and whose minds were capable of being influenced by reason and argument; the other class, whose previous engagements rendered it unnecessary for them to apply their minds to the subject under discussion. The following was the paragraph of the petition to which he alluded:—"Your petitioners disclaim any the least intention to insult your honourable House, by any remarks they may make upon its character, which they wish to see pure and unblemished in public opinion; but
 1370
 Sir J. Newport  said, it very often happened that hon. gentlemen presented to that House, petitions, containing sentiments in which they themselves did not concur. Now, if the principle that had been that evening laid down was to be acted upon, the consequence would be, that any member so circumstanced would have nothing to do but to select some strong passage from the petition, and describe it in his speech as being objectionable, to ensure the rejection of the petition. He, therefore, did mean to contend, that the House ought never to exercise this strong power of rejection, until after it should have heard the petition read. It was on these grounds that he had supported the reading of the petition lately rejected.
 Colonel Wood  seconded the motion. As the bill at present stood, the exhibition of shows was prohibited, and he knew that some persons feared that a very entertaining personage called. Mr. Punch would no longer be allowed to amuse the public. He therefore felt great satisfaction in stating, that his hon. friend would have no objection to introduce a special clause in favour of Mr. Punch. The public were indebted to his hon. friend for the prospect which held out of relieving the country from the heavy expense incurred by the passing of vagrants. The sum which had been expended for that purpose last year amounted to 100,000 l.
 Mr. Lyttleton  supported the bill, as it tended to distinguish the vagrant laws from the poor laws, of which there had been some danger of their becoming a part.
 Alderman Wood  supported the bill, as he thought its provision very salutary.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  was decidedly of opinion, that as the sheriff-depute of Edinburgh was a resident officer in his shrievalty, so ought the sheriff Lanarkshire. That judge had Glasgow in his district, a large and populous city, requiring the constant residence of this important officer, and therefore he was of opinion that this alteration at least should be introduced into the act of 1748, that its sheriff should be a constant resident, and that he should be placed on the same footing as the sheriff of Edinburgh, who had a salary of 800 l.;
 The Lord Advocate  was of opinion, that the faculty of advocates were misled in the opinion they had formed upon the intended measure of government. He believed that they expected a measure for nicking the whole of the sheriffs of the counties of Scotland reside within their jurisdiction. Nothing was ever farther from the intention of government.
 Mr. Kennedy  objected to the point of residence resting between government and the sheriff. He wished for a bill on the subject.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that the particular measure noticed by the right hon. gentleman formed a very principal part of the great question which, last year, he had the honour of bringing forward. With regard to the general measure, if the expediency of reviving the subject depended upon himself—if he were called upon to
 1388
 Mr. Plunkett  said, it would afford him great satisfaction, could he give a more explicit answer to his right hon. friend. He had not been able yet to bring his mind to any definite conclusion, though he was not conscious of having omitted any means of informing himself upon the subject. The sentiments of the Roman Catholics with whom he was connected would, of course, mainly govern him; and he had every reason to believe that they were not at present anxious to press the matter forward. He felt that he should not do right if he now entered into the question as to the time when it might or might not be proper to introduce the subject; but he must be considered as exercising his own discretion on a matter so momentous: he had given it every possible attention, without being influenced by any indirect view, either public or personal. Whenever he found that it could be discussed favourably, he would not be backward to bring the question forward. He begged to remind the right hon. gentleman that this had never been considered an annual measure, to be brought forward session after session. It had been said, that the success of last year was a strong argument for persevering; but he could not bring his mind to any such conclusion. The nearer he approached to the final accomplishment of the object, the more tremulous was his feeling with respect to it. He did not think the state of Ireland at this time, such as to warrant the friends of the Catholics in pressing for an early discussion of their claims; and he really believed that the Roman Catholics had good taste and good feeling enough to abstain. Whether or not, philosophically speaking, the prevailing discontents in Ireland might
 1390
 Mr. Bennet  said, that the income of Mr. Herries, 2,700 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  spoke to the meritorious services of Mr. Herries, and begged to inform the hon. member, that there were very few members of that House whose education and talents surpassed those of that gentleman. The hon. gentleman was not justified in considering him merely as a clerk. From a clerk to the Treasury he had risen to a most important situation, having, in every instance, given the highest satisfaction to the heads of his department. Mr. Herries to the close of the war had been entrusted under a commission with the management of an immense sum connected with the military expenditure of the country. No less than 17,000,000 l. 1397
 Mr. Bennet  did not mean to deny that Mr. Herries was a most excellent servant. What he objected to was, that he had received the salary which ought to pay a higher office than that which he had filled.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that since it was admitted that Mr. Herries was a most excellent servant, he would take upon himself the responsibility of having advised a just remuneration for his services.
 Mr. Bennet  said, it was easy for the right hon. gentleman to refer the House to his responsibility. Though he had often heard of responsibility in that House, he had yet to learn what the word meant. He did not know whether the day of real responsibility would ever arrive, but he hoped to God that it would, and that, too, while the present ministers were living. l.
 Colonel Wood  said, that as to the general question of repairs, he certainly thought that too many barracks had been built; but it would be penny wise and pound foolish to pull them down or to suffer them to fall into decay. He did not think many officers on half-pay would
 1399
 Mr. R. Smith  thought the circumstance just mentioned by the right hon. gentleman was an irresistible argument in favour of the amendment. The expenditure of Abe last year was in general a guide for that of the present; and as the 10,000 l.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that the motion of his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, was intended as a reduction of the allowances to barrack-masters, and was therefore not touched by the concession which had just been made. With regard to the present vote, he really thought that as much as 40,000 l. l. l.
 Lord A. Hamilton  argued, that the measure ought to be carried into effect by an act of parliament, though for his part, he had no hopes of a proper person being induced, by 800 l.
 Mr. Arbuthnot,  adverting to the remarks which had fallen from the hon. gentleman respecting the storekeeper's department, said, he had, perhaps, been rather remiss in not stating that arrangements had been made, which afforded him every reason to hope, that the whole duty of that department would in future be transferred to the Ordnance. He could assure the hon. gentleman, that though a year had elapsed since this subject had been mentioned, the time had not been passed in idleness. His thoughts had been anxiously turned to it, with a view of making the transfer as soon as this could be effected, with due regard to economy, and proper attention to the public service. He believed he might say, that from this time forward, the whole of the business of the Store1ceeper's department would be transacted at the Ordnance. The item of 70,000 l. 1396 l. l. l.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that since he had been in office he had never appointed any person to the situation of barrack-master who was not connected with the army. It was a mistake to suppose that a barrack master had nothing to do at present; for he had the care of the barracks and of the stores. He had never made an appointment from political motives; indeed ho could appeal to the hon. member for Shrewsbury to bear him out in this assertion with respect to a particular case. [Mr. Bennet assented.] In consequence of the observation which had been made; last year as to the barrack-master at Haddington, he had directed inquiry to be made; and the result of it was, that the individual in question was not a linen-draper, and that he regularly discharged the duties of his situation. As to the objection to the sum for repairs, it was impossible to prevent the barracks falling to ruin, unless they were repaired.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that in proposing a vote for the Commissariat Department, he felt it necessary to trouble the committee with a few words, in explanation of the manner in which the estimates were drawn up this year, prior to any question being put to him on the subject. The estimates were drawn up in a mode differing considerably from that which was adopted last year, and it became his duty to state in what the alteration consisted. Last year the rations for the commissariat department were, on the whole estimate, taken at a fraction beyond 6 d., l. l. d., 1391 l.; l. l.; l. l.; l. l.; l. 1392 l. l.; l. l. l., l., l. l.; l., l. 1393 l.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, he understood the object of the hon. member for Aberdeen was merely to take 10,000 l.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that as there certainly appeared to be some foundation for the argument that the repairs in question were extraordinary, and as he was, for the reasons he had mentioned, not able to give the committee the particulars of it, he would not press the vote, but would agree that the 10,000 l.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, it was only the temporary barracks at Manchester to which he had alluded. Those of a permanent nature were retained.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that no considerable expense was ever incurred without the approbation of the Treasury. He was not able to give the particulars of the sum alluded to, on account of the illness of the officer at the head of the barrack department.
 Mr. Canning  rose, for the purpose of giving a notice, to which he begged to call the attention of his right hon. friend the attorney-general for Ireland. Gentlemen who had been present during the debates of last year, on the bill for the relief of the Roman Catholics, might possibly do him the honour to recollect, that in one of those discussions he had insisted strongly upon the state of the law affecting Catholic peers, and had intimated his intention of bringing that part of the subject forward at a future time: he had since repeated this design more privately to gentlemen on both sides of the House. Nothing could be farther from his wish than to interfere, in any degree, with the larger and more general measure, which, if brought forward, he would promote to the best of his abilities: but, on the expediency of bringing it forward at the present moment, he offered no opinion. As the session was advancing, and as to postpone the notice until after the holydays might even endanger the entertaining of the subject at all, he took that opportunity of stating, that on the 30th April he would move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal so much of the act of the 30th Charles 2nd as debars Roman Catholic peers from exercising their right of sitting and voting in the House of Lords. It was due to the noble persons whose interests were concerned, to declare solemnly, and upon his honour, that he had had no communication with them, upon the subject of the present notice.
 Mr. Tierney  believed, that but one opinion would be felt as to the notice of the right hon. gentleman. From the attorney-general for Ireland, he wished to know whether he had made up his mind upon the fitness of introducing the measure for the relief of the whole body of Catholics; or whether his ultimate opinion was to depend upon the sentiment entertained by the friends of the measure, in England and in Ireland, in the House and out of it? No doubt it was fit to collect the judgment of the various parties, but he
 1389
 Mr. Bright  observed, that the measure of which the right hon. gentleman had given notice, was one great step to the admission of the Catholics to political power, and should be resisted accordingly.
 Mr. Home Drummond,  on moving that it be printed, said, that he entertained serious doubts if the bargain the right hon. gentleman seemed about to make, in promising the sheriff a sum of money for doing a thing which the law did not require of him, was, under all circumstances of the case, a legal transaction.
 Mr. Home Drummond  presented a petition from the dean and faculty of advocates at Edinburgh. He said, that he considered that learned body had conferred a great honour on him in entrusting their petition to his hands, and hoped, from the weight that was due to their opinion, as well as- the importance of the subject to which their petition related, that he might be allowed to explain the nature of the case, concerning which they had been induced to trouble the House on this occasion. By the act of the 20th. Geo. 2nd by which the heritable jurisdictions in Scotland were abolished, his majesty was authorised to appoint a sheriff in every county who should be a lawyer of a certain standing at the Scots bar, and required to reside for a limited, period during each year within his county. The petitioners had heard of an intention, on the part of his majesty's government, to require the sheriffs to reside permanently in their jurisdictions, and it was against this intended alteration of the system that they had presented this petition. He submitted, that if any alteration of this sort was intended it ought to be done by act of parliament. If, in 1748, a statute was necessary to regulate this matter, he did not see why recourse should not be had to the same authority in the year 1822. It was implied necessarily in the act of 1748, that it was in the opinion of the legislature inexpedient to require longer residence than that statute enjoined, and the penalties by which that regulation was enforced could not be made to apply to any farther period of residence. How, then, was his majesty's government to enforce this additional residence they had in view? By making a bargain with the sheriff, by promising him a pecuniary reward—a thing most objectionable in principle; for it was easy to see, that if the government might bargain with a judge to do a certain part of his duty in a particular way, or to do a thing which was not his duty, and to pay him a reward for this, the independence of those jurors was at an end. He was aware that there was no improper object here in view, and that the measure proceeded from an anxious desire to promote the public interest. But he did think that this mode of accomplishing the object was improper. In the next place, he had to submit to the House that the measure was most inexpedient in itself. The object of the act of
 1385 viva voce
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that, with the exception of Edinburgh, Lanarkshire, and Renfrew perhaps, he was decidedly of opinion that constant residence should not be required. The learned gentleman recommended an act of parliament.
 Sir J. Montgomerie  admitted that much good had resulted from the act of 1748; but at the same time he contended, that change of circumstances and manners might have operated to require the alteration now proposed. The sheriff of Edinburgh was always resident, and he would put it to any man to bear testimony how well the business of his court was carried on, owing to that permanent residence, and he was desirous of having Glasgow placed on the same footing.
 Mr. Hume  said, the committee must feel satisfied with the explanation given by the right hon. gentleman. He, for one, was greatly pleased with it. He was glad to find that the right hon. gentleman had endeavoured to simplify the mode of drawing up those estimates by rendering the different items more clear and distinct than they had usually been. There was a very considerable reduction of expense in this department. Last year the sum voted was 401,000 l.; l. l. l. l. 1394 l. l. l. l., l. l. 1395
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself satisfied with the proposed transfer of the storekeeper-general's department to the Ordnance. But, on the item of 27,000 l. l. l. l. 1398 l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had last year opposed the grant for the barracks at Manchester, and his arguments had failed in convincing the House. Now, it appeared, that the barracks were given up, and the money was lost to the public.
 Mr. P. Moore  hoped that his friend Punch, as well as the persons who carried about wild beasts for show, would not be included in the list of vagrants by this law, as they were subjects of great and general amusement.
 Mr. Hurst  observed, that although in the profession of the law, and acting as a magistrate for the last fifty years, he was at this moment unable to define the duties of a peace officer under the present vagrant laws. They were an ill digested mass, and called loudly for revision.
 Mr. Peel  said, he would not pledge himself to bring any measure before parliament.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought it impossible for any gentleman to go into a detail of the estimates without committing mistakes, and those mistakes were sure to be thrown in his teeth by the gentlemen opposite. Surely 60,630 l. l.
 Mr. Chetwynd,  in proposing the second reading of this bill, observed, that the measure contained no provision that was not to be found in the existing laws. He had heard that some persons, particularly ladies, complained that by the bill the minstrels who perambulated the streets would be prevented from serenading theme; but he would inform those persons, that, under the laws at they at present stood, wandering musicians were considered vagrants. It was his intention, on the present occasion, merely to propose that the bill be read a second time.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that the laws relating to vagrants ought to be simplified, and brought under a more concise shape. The public were much indebted to the learned gentleman for the bill now before them.
 Sir J. Newport  said, it appeared as if there was no limit to the discretion of the barrack department. He observed a sum of 10,000 l.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that he looked at the Catholic question in a light directly opposed to the view of the attorney-general for Ireland. The state of that country seemed to him an additional reason for bringing forward the measure without delay, since, in his opinion, it would accomplish the permanent tranquility of Ireland. The question was not open to other individuals until the right hon. gentleman relinquished it, no other individual was warranted in interfering with it. He was opinion, that the Catholic question ought to be brought forward this session, and that no time ought to be lost.
 Sir W. W. Wynn  said, he should hear with great satisfaction of the reduction of the rate of interest, and wished to know whether the reduction of the heavy tax on the transfer of mortgages was actually in contemplation.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that ministers, with the advice of the law officers of the Crown, intended to introduce a clause into a bill now preparing, remitting the heavy  ad valorem
 Sir T. Lethbridge  agreed, that the Bank was not the cause of the agricultural distress, and that the country was under great obligations to the Bank; but on the other hand, the Bank were under great obligations to the country; and he thought that they should not be slow to reduce the rate of interest, which ultimately they could not keep up.
 Mr. Western  said, the ministers should be aware of the situation in which agriculture stood. The gentlemen whose property was embarked in that pursuit were on the brink of ruin. He was convinced that two-thirds of the farmers of Essex were at this moment, if they were called upon to settle their accounts, in a state of insolvency. He called upon the noble marquis to consider whence such a situation had arisen. Had it happened in this country before? Had it happened in any other country, that a whole class of men were deprived of their property? So far from expecting this, there was every reason to have hoped for the reverse. Their situation was one which must convulse the whole frame of society, unless it were speedily altered. Landlords for the last two or three years had been
 1405
 Mr. Robinson  rose and said: * * 1415 1416 1417 1418 1419 1420 1421 ipso facto, independent one another, 1422 1423 1424 —"What seasons can control, What fancied zone can circumscribe the soul? Who conscious of the source from whence she springs, By Reason's light, on Resolution's wings, Spite of her frail companion, dauntless goes, O'er Lybia's deserts, and through Zembla's snows." 1425 
 1. "That the chairman be directed to ask for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the trade between his majesty's possessions in America and the West Indies, and other places in America and the West Indies. 2. That the chairman be directed to ask for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the trade between his majesty's possessions in America and the West Indies, and other parts of the World, exclusive of America and the West Indies."
 Mr. Marryat  considered the measure as one of the greatest importance, not only with respect to its general object, the amelioration of trade, but also as it affected the Negroes. From the state in which their masters were at present, they were in extreme distress. The measure, therefore, whilst it went to save the masters from ruin, was also highly interesting to the slaves. The object of it was to place those who had abolished the slave trade upon the same footing with those who had net. As a proof of the vast opening there was for an extended commerce emanating from the West Indian colonies, he had that morning seen a list of 575 ships engaged last year in that branch of trade. As to the navigation or
 1426
 Mr. Philips  hoped, that the consideration of no individual interests would be permitted of interfere with a measure which was consistent with the soundest principles of commercial policy and justice. He was convinced that by the operation of this measure a stop would be put to the continuance of the slave trade.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said the principle of the expenditure was in cases where the honour and interest of the country were concerned, and in the case mentioned it would not be contended that the honour of the country was not concerned. Parliament had so considered it last year; but when it ceased to be a secret service the money required was openly paid to the solicitor employed.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that the secret service money voted last year was 25,000 l. l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, it was not to be supposed that precisely the same sum would every year be necessary for this service. The hon. member was not justified in using the term bribery, as applicable to the present question.
 Mr. Hobhouse  did not mean to impute bribery in the grossest sense of the word; but the noble marquis was too well acquainted with foreign courts not to know that if he wished to preserve a particular influence, we must fight with silver spears.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the charge in the foreign secretaries de-
 1432
 Mr. G. Bennet  moved to reduce this sum of 10,000 l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, if the hon. member wished to know the amount expended under this head n former years, he might have an account of the expenditure in each year for the last eleven years; but if he wished to know the particular details of how it was expended, it was rather an Irish proposition, for it would then be secret service money no longer. The hon. member would find that Mr. Burke had not dissented from the principle of the grant for secret services, bur, on the contrary, had admitted it to be necessary for carrying on the government. With respect to the present grant, he could state, that the greater part he believed 24,000 l.,
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  defended his proposition to repeal the usury laws, which was merely, that the rate of interest should be left to find its own level. He had by no means abandoned it, and the measure which was in contemplation for re-
 1404
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that a smaller sum had last year been voted, because a considerable portion of the grant of the preceeding year remained unexpended.
 Sir E. Harvey  confirmed what had fallen from his hon. colleague on the subject of petitions. He also bore testimony to the great extent of the distress in Essex.
 Mr. Bright  was of opinion that Canada ought to have the advantage of the pro-
 1430
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he held in his hand a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in Linlithgow, complaining of distress. The remedy which the petitioners proposed was, the laying out of a million of money on the part of government in the purchase of corn in the market. He particularly directed the attention of the House to one paragraph in the petition, to this effect:—Your petitioners do not pretend to find fault with taxes, being convinced that they are necessary for the support of the state. To reduce taxation would be like a drop of water falling into the immense ocean—our distresses are so far beyond the reach of any relief to be obtained in that way." In that opinion he fully concurred. He felt disappointed that the Bank had not seconded the plan of the government, by consenting to discount at a lower rate of interest. He was convinced that the Bank, by refusing to discount at a lower rate of interest, had contributed materially to the distresses of the country. The conduct of the Bank was indeed extraordinary. It did nothing to facilitate money transactions, which was originally the object of its institution. Why had the Bank continued its rate of discount higher than in other countries? Why was it necessary to pay 5 per cent in London, and only 4 per cent in Paris? He was willing to admit that the country was greatly obliged to the Bank for their conduct
 1403
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, said, the only source of immediate relief both to landlord and tenant was a reduction of the interest of money. The law, though it prevented the Bank from taking more, did not, he apprehended, prevent them from taking less than 5 per cent. If 4,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  tinned, that the House would recollect a discussion which had taken place last session as to the importation of East India sugar. When it was proposed to permit the importation of East India sugar upon the same terms exacted the importation of West India, the answer was, that as England monopolized the West India markets, compelling the colonies to buy and sell with her and with her only, therefore she was bound, as long as she maintained that monopoly, to admit no competitor into the market which she afforded. He hoped, that if the concession now proposed was made to the planters, the restriction upon the importation of East India sugar would be removed; for certainly, all the sound principles of general commerce applied just as fully to the admission of East India sugar into this country as to the sale of West India in foreign markets. As regarded the condition of slaves, too, in our West India islands, he had farther objections beyond the inefficiency of the Registry act; and he trusted that the present opportunity would be taken, to demand the correction of the objectionable practices, in return for advantages bestowed. One most important point necessary to the happiness of slaves in our West India islands was, that they should become  adscripti glebœ. 1427
 Mr. Monck  said, the Bank had a right to make the best use of their capital, and that any relief occasioned by the lowering of interest would be of small amount, except to mortgagees. The distress of the country could, in his opinion, be relieved only by raising the price of agricultural produce, or by reducing taxation.
 Mr. Pearse,  contended that over-production was the real cause of the distress, and that the rate of interest had always been governed by the price of the funds.
 Mr. Plummer  expressed his satisfaction at the introduction of the measure, and read some parts of a letter to prove that the West India colonies were, together with distress, threatened with a famine.
 Mr. Barham  did not believe, that the measure proposed would have the effect of introducing fresh slaves into the British colonies. The planters, indeed, must be mad who thought of importation at the present moment, for, so far from having money to buy new Negroes, they had not the means of supporting those already in their possession. He would support the bills, for he thought it absolutely necessary to do something for the relief of the colonial interest.
 Mr. Butterworth  supported the general principle, and believed it would tend to promote an effectual abolition.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know why the sum was so large in time of peace? He could not see for what purpose this large sum was wanted; certainly it could be for no good purpose. It was giving ministers the means of doing harm. If the money was properly disposed of, they would not be afraid to let the public know how it was applied. He believed the vote was but 15 or 20,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the enormous proportion of charge, under the head of the foreign secretary of state's department amounting alone to 30.000 l.
 Mr. Hume  did not deny the principle of secret service money, but was anxious to know what quantum of the present grant was given to particular persons. The noble lord had last year stated, that the expence of a part of the proceedings against her late majesty, namely the Milan commission, was defrayed out of the secret service money. This appeared to be an application of the fund which never could have been contemplated by parliament.
 Mr. Evans  thought that some positive regulations should be made to prevent the importation of fresh slaves.
 Mr. Huskisson  denied that any thing like exclusive advantage was intended to the colonies by the arrangement contemplated. The case had been opened by his right hon. friend as a broad question of commercial policy. The advantage projected was to all—to the navigation, to the mother country, and to the West India possessions. The right hon. gentleman then touched upon the effect of the proposed bills as applying to the slave trade, and denied that any facility would be created by the free intercourse greater than that which already existed. What had of late years afforded so much encouragement to the slave-trade, as that intercourse which, through the mistaken policy of the British government, had gone on extending itself between the United States and Cuba, as well as the Brazils? Had the British West India islands been at liberty to export their produce to all the northern parts of America, we should not have found the people of this latter country deriving all their supplies of certain articles, from the colonies of other European states, which were thereby induced to enlarge their cultivation, and to import an additional number of slaves. The same cause had operated to increase the distress and difficulties of our planters, and indirectly to spread the horrors of the detestable traffic which all our old and respectable colonists, wished to see finally abolished. We might form some notion of the benefit that would have resulted to the West Indies from an open trade with North America, supposing that in the existing superfluity of our own produce a new foreign market was discovered for it. The hon. gentleman who `Spoke before him seemed to intimate his dissent from this part of his argument, and had already remarked, that much of the evil was to be traced to our impolitic acquisition of too many colonies during the last war. But, admitting this to be
 1428 1429
 Mr. Huskisson  begged to disclaim all right to interfere with the affairs of the Bank of England. He had only stated his opinion as an individual member of parliament.
 Mr. Huskisson  could not avoid expressing his opinion, that if the Bank could be induced to lower the rate of interest, it would contribute in some degree to release the pressure which gentlemen so bitterly lamented. When it was said that it had lent 15 millions to the public at 3 per cent, it ought not to be forgotten that parliament had given the Bank important and exclusive privileges. If the ordinary rate of interest was elsewhere under 5 per cent, he could not understand why the Bank should refuse to discount on good securities at the same rate, when it had in fact found it worth while to lend to the state at 3 per cent.
 Mr. Manning  felt it extremely difficult to reply to the observations of the last speaker, because he had no authority to state any thing on the part of the Bank. The hon. member had said, that a great portion of the agricultural distress was to be ascribed to the conduct of the Bank. A charge so totally without foundation, he had never heard. In his opinion, the distress of the agricultural interest was occasioned by over production, arising from the large quantities of land enclosed during the last twelve years. The directors of the Bank had been held up to public indignation as being the cause of agricultural distress, because they had not lowered the rate of interest. But the Bank had nothing to do with lowering the rate of interest. That was altogether a parliamentary question. The learned member for Guildford had once proposed to repeal the usury laws; and if that had been agreed to, interest would have been taken at 10 or 12 per cent. Another attack in which official persons had joined had been made upon the Bank, because it had not lowered the rate of its discount to 4 per cent. He did not know why the Bank were to be called usurers and extortioners on this ground. The Bank lent out its whole capital of 15,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the present race of West India planters seemed to be influenced by views so different from those of their predecessors, and the question now before them involved merits so distinct, that he was unwilling to throw the least impediment in its way. Whatever was consistent with the welfare or interests of this country, he was disposed to concede. He feared, however, that the new system could only be established at our expense; and it could not be disputed that the distress at home was equally great with the distress in the colonies.
 Mr. Wilberforce  complimented the right hon. gentleman upon the steady support which he had given to the abolition of the slave trade, but feared that the bills proposed to be introduced would, by increasing the intercourse of our colonies with other nations, facilitate the illicit importation of slaves. The hon. gentleman also adverted to the system of registry devised as a security against the introduction of new Negroes into our islands. In Trinidad, he believed it was carried fully into effect, but in many of our islands, and in the principal one, Jamaica, it was in a very limited degree attended to.
 Mr. Gooch  brought up the report of the select Committee on the distressed, state of the Agriculture of the United Kingdom, and moved that it be read. The marquis of Londonderry suggested, that as arrangements had been made for printing the report as soon as possible, it might be better not to have it read at present. After a short conversation, it was agreed that the report should be taken into consideration on the 22nd. The following is a copy thereof:—
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that if Mr. Burgess had any claim upon government for the encouragement given to him, ministers ought to have paid him the sum they thought due upon their own responsibility. He could not see in what way the House had given this individual any encouragement. If he chose to proceed with the experiment, after the rejection of the bill,
 1434
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, that the claim was not for any expense incurred by Mr. Burgess after the bill had failed, but during the progress of it.
 Mr. Calvert  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to reduce into one act all the regulations respecting bakers and sellers of bread, within ten miles of the Royal Exchange. He observed that the last act on this subject had been found ineffectual in affording protection to the public; but he was of opinion that there were two ways in which perhaps, that object might be accomplished—the one by the sale of bread, like any other article, by the pound; and the other by the sale of it by the price, that is, in loaves of the value of 1 s., d., d., 1433
 Mr. S. Wortley  moved to refer to a select committee the petition of Mr. Henry Burgess, praying for remuneration for the expences he had incurred in the place for an Extra Post.
 Mr. F. Palmer  said, he had distinctly understood from the chancellor of the exchequer, that there would be no cost to the country from the experiment. On that ground he had supported the bill for giving Mr. Burgess's plan a trial though he had never thought it could succeed. He was very much disappointed to find a claim for remuneration sanctioned by the right hon. gentleman.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he certainly had stated that the experiment was to have been made at the sole charge of the projector; and if Mr. Burges had been allowed to make the trial, he should never have sanctioned any claim for remuneration; but when, after being induced to incur considerable expence by the decisions of the House, Mr. Burgess had been prevented from making his experiment by the bill being thrown out on the third reading, he thought the petitioner had a strong claim on the indulgence and compassion of the House.
 Mr. Marryat  said, there would be no end to projects if projectors were to be indemnified against failure at the public expence.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, the ground on which the chancellor of the exchequer had put the case would have induced him to vote against the motion if he had known nothing else of it. The right hon. gentleman had called on them to accede to the motion as a matter of compassion or indulgence. Now, they were not entitled to vote away the public money from their own sentiments of compassion. If the Treasury had given Mr. Burgess encouragement to incur expence, they should take on themselves the responsibility of remunerating him.
 Mr. N. Calvert  thought the Treasury were wise, not to turn a deaf ear to suggestions of improvement in a matter so important to commerce as the Post. The Mail Coach system had been at first as much opposed by the Post-Office as Mr. Burgess's plan. The petitioner should be allowed nothing that he did not prove a right to, but his claim should be inquired into.
 Mr. P. Moore  was opposed to the grant of any money, the effect of which could only be the encouragement of projectors.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought there was no extraordinary ingenuity in the plan which entitled it to the special notice of parliament. The plan appeared to involve nothing beyond the substitution of a two-wheeled for a four-wheeled carriage, and an attempt to increase the velocity of the vehicle.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  contended, that if Mr. Burgess had a claim, there was no disappointed speculator who might not come to parliament for compensation.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  did not consider this, at all a desirable moment for going into the vast range of matter connected with the report. The hon. gentleman had, however, in such strong terms attacked the agricultural committee, that it became necessary for him (Mr. L.) as a member if it, to express a hope that neither the House nor the country would concur in the censures that had been so freely bestowed. The hon. gentleman had accused the committee partly for what it had done, and partly for what it had not done; but when he said, that the proper course for it to have pursued was to have investigated the causes of the distresses, and to have ascertained how far they arose from taxation, and how far from a change in the currency, he widely differed from the hon. gentleman. Had that course been recommended in the committee, he should have resolutely resisted it; because, although he had very often heard hon. members argue that the distresses were attributable to the change in the currency, he had never yet heard any individual hardy enough to say, that the step that had been taken in this respect ought tot be retraced. The House had given the committee, in the order of reference, no such power or instruction; and to what beneficial or practical result could it have led, to rip up what no hon. member had been found daring enough to attack in any substantial form? To have assumed this power, and to have inquired what taxes might or might not be fitly repealed, would have been a direct interference with the duty of the whole House, which was the labour of every session, and for which a session was hardly ever found sufficiently protracted. It was to be remembered also, that the committee which had just reported was to be considered as a sequel to the committee of the last session, and that committee had entered into a minute investigation of the causes of the distress. It was, therefore, most unnecessary and unwise for the committee to travel over the same ground as had been investigated the session before.
 1443
 Mr. Western  did not concur in the censures bestowed upon the committee by his hon. friend, the member for Coventry, nor did he think the points to which he would have directed its attention, open to its consideration. He was ready with the hon. gentleman who last spoke, to do justice to the motives of the members of that body, however he might dissent from the conclusion to which they had arrived. This committee had been only a revival or continuation of that of last year; and when it was asserted, that the object of it had been to raise the price of grain, it was putting it in a way not quite fair. The landed interest complained, that although the act of 1815 was meant to give them protection, yet that it was mainly defective, as when the ports were open, there was no limit to the quantity of grain that might be imported and warehoused, and thus a lasting glut was produced in the market. To this the committee had applied a remedy, which he thought wholly incompetent, and placed the British agriculturist even in a worse situation than before. Intending to do justice, the committee had been most egregiously mistaken, and the report would, therefore, only increase the dissatisfaction and dismay among the farmers. Such was the present state of the country, that it was impossible to say in what manner the duty proposed could operate effectually. It became the House, without delay, to look at the extraordinary situation in which the landed interest was placed. It was a bold assertion that he had made on a former, night, but a true one, that two-thirds of the farmers of Essex, could they make up their accounts, would be found insolvent. Did not this impose upon the House the duty of duty of a full and an immediate investigation?
 1444 1445
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he had heard nothing that evening to convince him that it would not have been better to reserve the discussion till an opportunity when some more practical proposition should be brought forward. He put it to honourable members opposite, whether they had not lost a great deal of precious time in not raising question upon the state, of the currency during the considerable part of the session which had passed, if they believed that measures affecting the currency would give relief. He meant such measures has had been proposed by the hon. member for Essex, and which would probably be seconded by the hon. member for Coventry, who had supported the bill in 1819 as ardently as any member, but who seemed, to be doing all he could since, to atone for that support. The hon. member for Essex ought not to have been satisfied with making a fruitless complaint that night; but if he thought that he could influence the judgment of the House, he ought to have submitted a measure such as he had alluded to. The hon. member ought to have satisfied the House that the bill ought to be repealed, and not to have merely maligned it. He could now understand the course pursued by the hon. member for Shrewsbury. He could not before understand why it was thought desirable that, with imperfect views, they should enter into the discussion of a subject which came before them in no practical shape. But he could now see the object of the hon. member for Shrewsbury; and he must enter his most solemn protest against the purpose which he had in view; for, if he understood him right, he wished to sound the public mind, through the channel of the distresses of the agricultural classes, to ascertain if they were disposed to favour that most flagrant deviation from sound policy as well as from common honesty—
 1452 1453 1454
 Mr. Calcraft  did not insist upon the bill of 1819 as one of the very material causes of the present agricultural distress, although it did press in some measure upon that interest as well as upon others; but when the right hon. gentleman relied upon the prosperity of the manufacturers, he would tell him that the very distress of the agriculturist was one great source of that prosperity. He was bound to declare (although he knew the doctrine would not be popular on his own side), that the agricultural distress arose out of the too great production, and that overproduction created such a competition in the market, that the tax which the grower paid he was unable to throw upon the consumer. The manufacturer was well off; because the price of produce was ruinously low. The agriculturist was starving, because he raised produce under heavy burthens, and was compelled to sell at prices which would not reimburse him. And, what was the relief proposed for all this suffering? One million was to be laid out in corn for the purpose of warehousing. But he must contend, that that measure would do nothing at all for the agriculturist. The million must be laid out in corn which would bear warehousing, and that kind of corn was already at a fair price. The warehousing plan would do no good at all to the grower, and it would do a great deal of harm to the consumer. They came, then, to the question of what ought to be done; and, upon that point, he must call the attention of the House to the declaration of the noble lord. The noble lord said, that, suppose the whole taxes of the country, much less 5,000,000 l. l. 1457
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he had never meant to contend that the remission of taxes would afford no relief. He had only maintained, that if it were possible the country could exist as a country, all the taxes being swept away, the present distress would not be removed. The absurdity of supposing that it could be so removed had been forcibly pointed out by the hon. member for Portarlington.
 Mr. Ricardo  corrected the error which appeared to have prevailed in the mind of his hon. friend, the member for Salisbury, that he (Mr. R.) was an advocate, for taxation. On the contrary, he had voted for every reduction of taxes that had been proposed in the course of the session, because be was anxious for the repeal of taxes, feeling that every tax must prove a burthen upon the public.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that no one could be more aware of the great difficulties which had been occasioned by alterations in the currency than himself. He had given the subject the greatest attention in his power, and had laboured hard to show the necessity of a fixed and unvariable standard of value. At the same time, he could not agree with the hon. member for Essex, as to the operation of the changes in the currency upon agriculture. Let them suppose the utmost extent of the operation—the changes in currency on the pressure of taxes. They must deduct from the whole amount of taxation, the amount of those taxes which were employed in expenditure, as they had been diminished in proportion as the value of money had been augmented. Supposing, then, 40,000,000 l. l. l. l. 1446 s., 1447 s. s. 1448 1449
 Mr. Ellice  said, he rose anxious to carry into effect what had been his intention on the presentation of the report the other evening, to call the attention of the public to the extraordinary propositions it contained, in the hope that a full expression of the feelings of the country would find their way to the House, after the holidays, on the subject. The noble marquis had, very properly, in his view of the case, then deprecated discussion, and he might do so still; but as there were two parties interested in the case, the distressed petitioners, whose prayers were uselessly, as it now appeared, and as he had anticipated at its appointment, referred to this committee, and ministers, it was fit the former should be fully aware of all the relief it was intended to extend to them. It suited government perfectly well to send the grievances of the people to a committee up stairs, upon whose report they could rely, while the house were busy in passing supplies, upon which a profuse expenditure could be continued, and that they might ride over this session like the preceding one, without the least practicable remedy being suggested or effected for the agricultural distress [Hear, hear!]. At last, however, they had the labours of this committee before them, and he for one would not consent to postpone an examination into the merits of the report, although it was difficult to deal with a composition, if he might use the term without disrespect to the members who composed the committee, so full of inconsistencies and absurdities. Be could scarcely say whether its faults of commission or omission prevailed; but he was certain, if no other remedies or relief were practicable, or intended, than those which appeared on the face of the report, it would have been much better at the commencement of the session to have told the petitioners—"We feel your distress, but overloaded with debt and taxes, it is not in our power to relieve it." This would have been at least more candid and consistent than to have excited a hope; which would now be so grievously disappointed. On looking at the report, no other object appeared to engage the attention of the committee, than that which was impracticable, raising the price of corn, and although they had prudently abstained from assuming entirely the
 1437 s. s. 1438 s., s. s. 1439 1440 l. s. l. s. d. 1441 1442
 Mr. Ellice  wished to say one word in answer to the noble lord's charge of inconsistency in his opinions with respect to the bill of 1819. At that time, as now, he supported the principles of the committee, and was anxious to put an end to a system which had so long disgraced this country, the only standard, in fact, being the discretion of government and the Bank in the issue of paper He had since opposed any attempt to revise the decision of the Committee, but he had at the time stated all his apprehensions of the result of the determination to restore the ancient standard, and he had not been deceived by them.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he had broached no doctrine of the kind. He had only stated, that the measures of ministers were driving along in that course which would terminate in a national bankruptcy. That he repeated. The measures which had defrauded the creditor in 1797, and the debtor in 1822, were rapidly proceeding to ruin the nation.
 Mr. H. G. Bennet  rose to protest against the doctrine, that taxes had nothing to do with the distresses of the agricultural interests. He did not profess to be able to go into the calculations which his hon. friend had stated, but he could state that in 1792 prices had been as low as at this moment. But the taxes had been at the utmost but 19,000,000 l. l., 1450 l. l. l. l. l. l. 1451
 Mr. H. Gurney  thought the existing distresses, which might more properly be called the pecuniary embarrassments of the country, had been entirely produced by the measure commonly called Mr. Peel's bill.
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, presented a petition from the agriculturists of Wiltshire, complaining of distress, and praying for relief. The hon. gentleman, after dwelling on the im-
 1435 1436
 Mr. Peel  would put it to hon. members, whether any thing like full discussion could be had at the then moment, and urged the impropriety of partial discussion, as tending to throw erroneous views before the country. For himself, he rose merely to enter his protest against being supposed to concur in the doctrines of the hon. gentlemen opposite; but he could not forbear
 1455
 Mr. Bennet  rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill "to amend the laws against Accessories before the fact in certain Felonies." The House must be well aware that in certain cases of felony, such as murder, arson, robbery, and others, the individuals who were, perhaps, the instigators to the crime, but did not participate in its commission, could receive no other punishment than twelve months imprisonment. He would mention an instance which placed the impolicy of the law in this respect in a strong point of view. A jeweller in Arundel-street, was some time since robbed of property to the amount of 2,000 l. 1458
 Mr. Bennet  then moved for leave to bring in a bill "to amend the laws respecting the crime of Manslaughter." Twelve months imprisonment, which was the punishment usually inflicted at the quarter-sessions, upon persons convicted of petty larcenies, was all to which the judges at present could sentence a person found guilty of manslaughter, however cruel might have been the circumstances attending the commission of the latter crime. He was of opinion, that the judges should be empowered to award the punishment of fourteen years transportation in aggravated cases of manslaughter; and the object of his bill was, to give them that power. He referred to the case of the man who was thrown from a window in Charles-street, Drury-lane, and died in consequence of the injuries he received. The parties concerned in that transaction, who were found guilty of manslaughter, could receive no greater punishment than twelve months imprisonment.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion, that no part of the law required more amendment than that which related to manslaughter. Under the head of manslaughter, cases most widely differing in the degrees of criminality were comprehended. A mere accidental blow in a scuffle, if it occasioned death, was considered manslaughter, and the deliberate killing of an officer in the execution of a warrant, if the instrument was in any degree informal, was no greater crime. These two things were considered in the eye of the law as exactly the same offence, and the judge had no power to inflict a greater punishment with respect to one than another.
 Mr. Bennet  trusted, that the House would not run away with so important a question. A proposition such as that, which his gallant friend had just hinted at, and which would put millions of property in jeopardy ought not to be looked at hastily. He intended, if he could find time in the present year, to bring in a bill for recasting the laws relative to the licensing and the regulation of public-houses.
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that the giving licenses to persons intead of houses would be attended with mischief. It was part of a magistrate's duty to say where a public house should be as well as who should keep it. If licenses were made personal, the holders might remove their residences at pleasure, and so two or three public-houses might be situated close to one another.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, the intention was, not to interfere with the discretion of the magistracy, but to put the licenses into the hands of individuals, instead of affixing them to buildings.
 Mr. Tierney  presented a petition from the land-owners of Maidenhead, in Berkshire, praying for a speedy change of regulations in the mode of licensing public-houses. The petitioners complained of the bad quality and
 1459
 Mr. Brougham  was happy to hear of his hon. friend's intention. The licensing system stood in lamentable need of a revision. Not only was the very large and wholly uncontrolled power held by magistrates over publicans most liable to abuse, but in some cases abuse of it had been proved. In many instances of complaint he was disposed to trace the fault rather to bad judgment in the licensing justice than to wilful abuse; but abuses had been shown; and he could not help thinking, that magistrates, in their discretion, were disposed to restrict the number of public-houses too far. To allow a monopoly to one house in each district, and that monopoly to a house belonging to, or connected with, a brewer, led immediately to the sale of an inferior commodity; and the result was an evil far greater than that against which the magistrate, in his caution, intended to provide: persons who, in other circumstances, would have drank good
 1460
 Mr. Brougham  presented a petition from the Unitarian Dissenters of Kendal in Westmoreland, complaining, that certain parts of the provisions of the Marriage act pressed on their consciences, and praying to be placed upon the same footing in that respect with the Jews and Quakers in England, and with the Unitarian Dissenters in Scotland and Ireland.
 Mr. H. Gurney  did not see what possible objection there could be to Unitarians being married by their own clergymen. The whole service would then be suited to their own sentiments, and, banns being regularly proclaimed in the church, no inconvenience could arise from it. On the other hand, there were many objections to parties having the service performed by clergymen of a different persuasion. He wished, therefore, that instead of such a measure as was now proposed, the hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Dr. Phillimore) could embrace the subject in his bill.
 Mr. W. Smith  begged, before he opened his proposition to the House, to put in two petitions, the one from Sheffield, the other from Stockton upon Tees.
 Mr. W. Smith  proceeded. In bringing forward the present motion, he should begin by stating the grievances of which the petitioners complained. Their complaint was, that by the regulations of the act of the 26th George 2nd, commonly called the Marriage act, they were placed in a situation painful to themselves and different from that in which, previous to the passing of that act, they had been permitted to stand. It would scarcely be denied by any one that marriage was a civil ceremony. It was so considered, not only by the common law, but by the canon law; and from the year 1753, up to the passing of the act now complained of, marriages solemnized by the Dissenters in their own places of worship had been held good and valid. The act of the 26th Geo. 2nd, however, enacting that every marriage, to be held legal, must be solemnized in the church, by the Ministers of the church, and according to the ritual of the church, completely deprived the Dissenters of their before enjoyed privileges. He was one of the class of persons now praying to be relieved from the pressure of that act, and it was important to those persons, as a class, that, coming before parliament, they should stand  rectus in curia. 1461 1462
 Sir R. Wilson  doubted whether any licenses ought to be granted to such houses as were the property of brewers.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the labours of the committee would not be so light as the hon. baronet seemed to imagine. The range of their investigation would be so extensive, that it was doubtful whether they would be able to make a report that session. He hoped, however, that their labours would enable government to lay the annual accounts before the House much earlier than heretofore, and in a different shape from that in which they formerly appeared. If the duties of the committee were extended to the whole system of keeping the public accounts, it would be impossible for them to effect any useful purpose whatever in the present session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of moving for the appointment of a committee, to investigate the manner in which the Public accounts are at present kept, and to suggest such improvements in the system as might appear necessary. The first object he had in moving for this committee, was, to devise some means of simplifying the manner in which the Public Accounts were prepared. He wished that the accounts annually laid before the House should be made up on a mercantile plan, presenting, at one view, as in a balance sheet, the income and expenditure of each year. An attempt had already been made to lay before the House a statement of this kind. If a summary of the debt and expenditure of the country, in one short abstract, were annually laid before parliament, that summary might be considered as a sort of index to each particlar account; so that any gentleman could, without difficulty, refer to the items of which it was composed.
 1463
 Mr. Maberly  said, that the errors which were manifest on the face of the public accounts rendered it necessary that a thorough revision of the system should take place. By the adoption of a balance sheet, gentlemen were at once enabled to detect any error which might occur in the detailed accounts; and while such a check existed, it would compel those whose duty it was to superintend the public accounts, to make those accounts consistent with the balance-sheet. When this system was fully carried into effect, the public would reap great benefit from it. Country gentlemen, who did not at present pay much attention to financial subjects, on account of their complexity, would, when the accounts were simplified, very easily understand them, and would at once see the increase or decrease of the Public expenditure, or of the public debt.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think it would be proper to report from time to time, and could not consent to enlarge his motion to the extent which gentlemen opposite desired. If it were so enlarged, it would bring subjects into discussion, the consideration of which properly belonged to other bodies. Some of
 1466
 Mr. Ellice  could not concur with his hon. friends in their view of the advantages which the country was likely to derive from this motion. He had hoped, in consequence of what occurred in the last, as well as in the present session that a committee would have been appointed to inquire generally into the public accounts; and although great labour would be thrown on such a committee, he could not see why they should not, like the committee on trade, report from time to time, on particular parts of the public accounts. One object for which he wished that committee to be appointed was, to inquire into the mode of managing the sinking fund. They were at present keeping up two or three useless establishments for the purpose of paying with one hand what was received by the other. Thus, if 18,000,000 l. l. 1465 l.
 Sir H. Parnell  did not mean to oppose the motion, but he would suggest that the proposition did not go far enough. It was not merely a simplification of the annual accounts that was called for; but a simplification of the whole system of keeping accounts in all the public departments. He could refer to various reports which had been presented to that House, complaining of the mode in which the accounts were at present kept. He begged leave to call the attention of the House to an extract from the evidence of the accountant-general, Mr. Stedman, given before a committee in 1810. That gentleman admitted, that the accounts were very much in arrear, the amount to be balanced in each year being about 14,000,000 l. 1464
 Sir J. Newport  thought the most satisfactory course would be, for the committee to take up particular branches of the subject and report on them from time to time.
 Mr. Grenfell bore testimony to the respectability of the individuals who had signed the petition: but he was bound in justice to himself to declare that he did not concur in many of the opinions which the petition contained. Although he felt, in common with every member who heard him, the severity of the distress which pressed upon agriculture, yet he was of opinion, that that distress was not of so general a nature as had been represented. He believed too, that it would be but of temporary duration, and that the period was not far distant when it would be in a considerable degree removed. He knew that many members of that House, and writers out of doors, had painted the present and prospective situation of the country in gloomy and desponding colours. For his own part, he was one of those who never did despond. He never yet had desponded, and he recollected no former occasion on which he was less disposed to entertain gloomy apprehensions of the situation of the country than at present. If those who appeared to despair of the state of the country would admit as proofs of national prosperity an increasing population, accompanied with a considerable extension of trade, both foreign and domestic, together with a degree of active employment throughout the manufacturing districts seldom surpassed, and a more general diffusion, not only, of the necessaries, but of the comforts and even luxuries of life among classes of the community which before were unable to obtain them; and if, in addition to these circumstances, the superabundance of capital manifested by the investments which were made in building, in public works, and in every other
 1467
 The Marquis of Londonderry  doubted the correctness of the statements contained in the petition; but on a future occasion he should be better prepared to discuss its merits.
 Mr. Charles Grant  rose and said:* Sir;—If I thought that the failure of the present motion would in the smallest degree tend to make the people of Ireland believe that this House is careless of their interests, I should feel more hesitation than I do in resolving on the vote which I, shall this night give. But, as I trust it wily produce no such impression, I shall follow, without scruple, the course which, seems to me most advisable. I concur with most, if not all, of the statements and representations of my right hon. friend, and those who have supported him; but I cannot concur in his motion, because it appears to me to imply an unmerited censure on the Irish government. At the commencement of the session, Sir, I expressed my confidence in that government, and I am not aware that any thing has yet occurred which should induce rue to withdraw that confidence. If I believed the reproach, apparently conveyed by this motion, to be just, I should most willingly accede to it; but, as my persuasion is of a different kind, it would be scarcely fair or honest in me to make myself a party to the implication. I am glad, however, that the important subject of the state of Ireland has been brought under the consideration of the House; and I shall beg leave to offer some remarks upon it, not in the presumptuous hope of adding much that is new, either in statement or argument, to what has already been so well said; but because I think it the duty of every member to supply the House, on this interesting subject with such information, however limited, as it may be in his power to afford.
 *> 1501 1502 1503 1504 1505 immediately 1506 1507 1508 1509 1510 1511 1512 1513 1514 1515 1516 pure Hibernian, 1517 1518 1519 1520 1521 1522 l. 1523 extrinsic 1524 1525 1526 facilius incitare currentem quam commovere languentem. 1527 gens-d' armerie 1528 1529 1530 1531 1532 l. 1533 1534 1535 1536
 Mr. Ellis,  of Dublin, deprecated the present discussion, as calculated to excite public irritation; whereas the object of all public discussion should be, to soften down irritation. He could not allow the statements which had been made by several gentlemen in the course of the debate, to operate unqualified on the mind of parliament. It was his duty to state the view he had taken of this important question; and if he, in delivering his opinion, should betray the infirmity of human nature, it could not be denied that those who cherished different feelings, and who had that night expressed them, were not free from the same infirmity. As far as the discussion had gone, very remote causes had been assigned for the troubles by which Ireland was now agitated. It appeared to him, that several gentlemen had adopted hasty opinions, on which they had argued, instead of adducing facts, and inferring consequences from them. He, however, would take a different course; he would state the facts which influenced his opinion, instead of arguing on fanciful and uncertain  data. 1537 1538 1539 1540 1541 s.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he would not at that late hour, trespass long on the time of the House, and in the few remarks he had to make on the motion of his right hon. friend, he should confine himself strictly to the main question. The House might feel assured, that it was far from his intention to follow the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, through the details of his disgusting attack upon the population of that country which had returned him to parliament. [Hear, hear!] He owned, that when the hon. and learned member was first about to desert the duty which belonged to him in the Irish court of Chancery, in order that he might devote his attention to parliamentary duties, he (Mr. P.) felt great regret; but he now withdrew from the bottom of his heart, every regret on that account, and
 1542 literally 1543 1544 1545 1546 1547 1548 1549 1550 1551
 Mr. Goulburn  said, if the right hon. baronet had felt embarrassed in rising on this subject, how much more embarrassed must he (Mr. G.) feel, in offering himself to the notice of the House, to speak on the affairs of a country with which he had been connected for so short a time, and with talents so inferior to those of the right hon. baronet. But while he thought it necessary to claim the indulgence of the House, he would engage to follow the example of the right hon. baronet, by not trespassing on their time longer than the importance of the subject demanded. With respect to the question now before the House, he trusted that he should not much err when he considered the object of the right hon. baronet in bringing it forward to be rather to promote a discussion on the affairs of Ireland than to carry the address itself. He did not deny but there were facts and arguments embraced by the address which he was not prepared to dispute, and in which he was ready to concur. He agreed that disorders had prevailed in Ireland—that to meet those disorders the House in its wisdom had given the government of that country the extraordinary powers which were thought, necessary for that purpose—nor could he doubt that those powers would be found to have been used with that firmness which was necessary, to put down the disorders which prevailed, yet ht the same time with
 1479 1480 1481 1482 1483 1484 1485 1486 1487
 Mr. Grattan  supported the observations of his right hon. and learned friend, whose knowledge of the state of Ireland made him competent to point out all the bearings of the question under consideration. The hon. member earnestly recommended unanimity in Ireland, and expressed a hope that he should see the day when Protestant and Catholic would be firmly united under the same laws and government.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had a petition to present from British merchants trading to Rio Janeiro. He had on the 13th of June last year, moved for papers relating to the commerce of this country with the Brazils. The noble marquis, now in his place, did not object to the motion, but took upon himself to doubt the accuracy of his statements. He was happy now to have it in his power to prove the accuracy of his statements. He came prepared to lay before the House one of the grievances under which British commerce suffered in that place, as in every part of the world, from the conduct of the consuls. An act of George the 1st, authorised the levying of duties for merchants in distress, but placed the sum levied in the hands of the merchants themselves. In 1808, sir James Gambier had been appointed consul at Rio Janeiro, and had imposed a duty of 10 s. 1468 l. l. 1469
 Mr. N. Calvert  expressed his intentions of supporting the motion, and was desirous of stating briefly the reasons why he did so. The hon. member then proceeded to draw a comparison between the population and the revenues of Scotland and Ireland. He stated, that the population of Ireland was two-thirds greater than that of Scotland, notwithstanding which the revenues of the two countries were only equal. He was convinced, that, properly managed and governed, Ireland would be as productive to the means of the empire as any other of its branches. He did not mean to impute the least blame to the existing government of Ireland. It was to those governments which had passed away, that all her miseries were to be ascribed.
 Mr. Spring Rice felt, that on an occa-
 1488 1489 1490 1491 1492 1493 1494 1495 1496 "Soles occidere atque redire possunt, —vobis Nox est perpetua una dormienda." 1497 1498 1499 *  Vide 1500
 Mr. T. Wilson,  seeing the indisposition of the noble marquis, wished to avoid discussion at the present moment. It was evident, however, that if one half of the complaints contained in the petition were well-founded, the consul-general, instead of serving the British interest, was doing every thing to oppress it.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the course which the debate had takes rendered it unnecessary for kin to trouble the House at any length upon the present occasion. Having, however, held an office in Ireland for a longer period than that office had been retained by any person during the last century, he trusted the House would excuse him if he ventured to address to them a few observations on the question which had been brought forward. In what he had to say he would abstain from making any allusion to the Catholic question; and he thought the right hon. baronet had acted wisely in refraining from making any reference to that question in the address which he had submitted to the House. When his right hon. and learned friend should, as he had given notice, submit the consideration of that question to the House, in the next session, he should feel it his painful duty to persevere in the opposition which he had always offered to the claims of the Roman Catholics; but, until that period arrived, he thought he should best consult his own feelings, and the general wishes of the House, by avoiding any reference to the subject. The points of difference between the right hon. baronet and those who opposed him appeared to be not very numerous, or of very great importance. The rt. hon. baronet had proposed a general
 1552 1553 1554
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he was willing to place confidence in the pledges which had been given by the chief secretary of Ireland, and the attorney-general, that the several measures which had been proposed for improving the condition of Ireland, would be made the subject of the constant and serious consideration of the British government, and in due time brought forward for the sanction of the House. He certainly had heard with great regret, the reply the right hon. gentleman had made to the question which he had asked him early in the evening, concerning tithes; because he
 1555 1556
 Sir J. Newport  rose to reply and said, that after the explanation which had been given on part of government, and particularly after the pledge which had been given by his right hon. friend, the attorney-general for Ireland, who had thrown oil upon the troubled waters, that measures for the relief of the people of Ireland were under the consideration of government, he would not press his motion to a division. He thought it necessary to deny that he intended, by his motion, to convey any reflection upon the present government of Ireland. If the motion had been of such a character, he would have been the last man in the House to propose it. He was happy that he had called the attention of the House to the subject, since it had been the occasion of eliciting a declaration of the intentions of government, which appeared to him very satisfactory.
 Sir Newport,  in bringing forward his motion upon this subject, assured the House most unfeignedly that he had never addressed them under feelings of greater embarrassment. His duty (and he felt it to be an urgent duty) was, to call the attention of parliament to the present condition of Ireland; never had the state of that country more imperiously required attention: But although he had frequently been compelled to press upon the consideration of that House the wretched state of the Irish population, and the manifold grievances under which that population suffered. He now experienced something, he would not call it of reluctance, but something like unpleasant feeling towards the task which he was once more to undertake. He experienced this feeling the more forcibly, because the motion which his present address to the House was intended to introduce would be nearly the same with that which he had submitted to them in 1816—which he had then brought forward under the support of three most intelligent, most eloquent, most enlightened friends—two out of these most able advocates of Ireland, and of the rights of Ireland, unfortunately for their country have sunk into the grave. When I mention Mr. Ponsonby, is it necessary to add to that name the attribute of ability or of information? The House knows the opportunities he enjoyed of acquiring information, and the ability with which he applied that knowledge to whatever he undertook. The second is a name identified with that of the country which gave him birth. He watched over her cradle; he followed her hearse; and after opposing with unequalled vigour the extinction
 1470 1471 1472 1473 1474 1475 1476 1477 morrow morrow 1478
 Sir W. Lemon  presented a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the county of Cornwall. The petitioners adverted to the distresses of the country, and stated their conviction that those distresses did not arise from a transition from a state of war to a state of peace, but chiefly from a lavish expenditure of the government.
 The Marquis of Titchfield  presented a petition from Lynn, praying the interference of the House for a remission of the remainder of Mr. Hunt's imprisonment. The noble marquis read an extract from the petition, in which it spoke of "the unrelenting severity practised towards the victim of ministerial hate, by the petty tyrants in whose power be was placed." The petition then referred, as a precedent for the interference of the House on the present occasion, to their having interfered to procure the remission of the punishment of sir Manasseh Lopez, whose crime was ten thousand times greater than the one imputed to Mr. Hunt. The noble marquis said, he fully concurred in the prayer of the petition, but although he concurred in the prayer, he differed from the petitioners in the reasons which they assigned; for, notwithstanding all he felt upon this subject, it did appear to him that ministers had done no more than their duty in ordering the prosecution of Mr. Hunt. For courts of justice he had the highest respect, and he should not, therefore, be disposed to listen to any thing against their decisions, without the strongest grounds; but the same respect for them made him wish, that they should not become the innocent instruments of unnecessary severity. In looking at the sentence on Mr. Hunt, he certainly did think it a severe one; and it had been rendered much more so, by the great severity with
 2
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that after the numerous petitions which had been presented to the House on the subject respecting which he then rose to address it, and in favour of the motion with which he intended to conclude, and after the able manner in which those petitions had been supported, and especially that presented by a noble lord from Lynn, in Norfolk, he felt somewhat embarrassed regarding the manner in which he should address them, because he thought that the noble lord, though shortly, had strongly occupied all the grounds on which he felt it
 3 4 5 minimum inter minora delicta minima inter minora; "actus 6 non facit reum, nisi mens sit rea"; 7 8 9 10 11 l l 12 l 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 "Who, touch'd with human woe, redressive search'd Into the horrors of the gloomy gaol, Unpitied and unheard, where misery moans, Where sickness pines, where thirst and hunger burn, And poor misfortune feels the lash of vice: While in the land of Liberty, the land Whose every street and public meeting glow With open freedom, little tyrants rag'd, Snatch'd the lean morsel from the starving mouth; Tore from cold wintry limbs the tatter'd weed; Ev'n robb'd them of the last comforts, sleep; The free-born Briton to the dungeon chain'd: Or, as the lust of cruelty prevail'd, At pleasure mark'd him with inglorious stripes" 20 21 22 23
 Mr. Hobhouse , from the temperate opening of the hon. under secretary, had not at al anticipated the heat and violence of his conclusion. If such men as Wooler and Carlile endeavoured to inflame the country, such men as the hon. gentlemen and his friends did their utmost to inflame the House, to excite its passions against an unfortunate individual, by mixing up his name with those with whom he was not in any way connected. In this attempt the hon. gentleman had shown far more skill than fairness, though the portion of skill, judging at least by its effect, was indeed scanty enough. He begged the hon. gentleman to show him, if he could, what Wooler or his "seditious artifices" had to do with this debate, or how Carlile and his "odious blasphemies" affected the question before the House? He had heard of no blasphemy of Mr. Hunt's, no impiety, no infidelity. He was not so well acquainted with the writings of Mr. Hunt as the gentlemen opposite seemed to be; but there certainly was nothing of these imputations against him there; there was no such crime on the record, and he protested against the associating Mr. Hunt's name with invidious topics, merely for the purpose of diverting them from the consideration of his claims on their justice. The hon. gentleman had failed to show that the statement of his hon. colleague was in any respect exaggerated. In endeavouring to discredit the testimony of Mr. Hunt, the hon. gentleman had discredited the commissioners. Every thing which the hon. gentleman alleged in defence of
 28 29 trifling 30
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that never, on any occasion, did he feel less strongly the necessity of replying; for nothing in the shape of argument had been offered in opposition to his motion. The vague and general declamation in which the right hon. secretary had indulged, he could look upon only as a kind of vapour which not unfrequently arose from that side of the House. The right hon. secretary had not condescended to support his declamation against the general conduct of Mr. Hunt by any proofs. Every person must feel how vague and indefinite a charge it was to say, that a man had an intention to subvert the principles of the constitution. Ministers would think every man liable to this charge who might attend a public meeting to endeavour to obtain redress for public grievances. The right hon. secretary had entirely overlooked all the hardships which Mr. Hunt had suffered. Another hon. gentleman had said, however, that some of those grievances had been redressed. But, what inference should be drawn from this circumstance? That Mr. Hunt ought to remain in prison? No; but that he had suffered inconveniences which he ought not to have suffered, during a great part of the term of his confinement, and should therefore receive atonement for the injury. If any, mea-
 48 49
 Mr. Wynn  said, that in the case of White the House reversed its own decision, and therefore the precedent did not apply. In the case of the rebel lords, the House of Peers, who had tried them, interfered as a jury to recommend them to mercy, and the House of Commons, who carried up the impeachment, interfered as prosecutors in the same application. This, therefore, was not a similar case. 46
 Mr. G. Dawson  declared, that in the observations he was about to offer, he did not mean to defend the departure which had taken place from all principles of humanity, in the conduct of the late gaoler of the prison in question. At the same time he thought that the feelings of men might seduce their judgments. No man ever went to a dungeon where he witnessed the situation of an unhappy convict, without having his compassion highly excited. He proposed to examine into the charges of cruelty preferred on the part of Mr. Hunt. The hon. baronet had
 24 25 26 27
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that having on a former occasion fully stated his opinion with respect to Mr. Hunt's sentence and treatment whilst in confinement, he would not that night have said one word, had it not been for the pointed allusion which his hon. and learned friend had made to him. His hon. and learned friend had referred to him as a kind of witness to the good conduct of Bridle. He begged the House to understand that at the time he (Mr. Buxton) visited the prison, and made a favourable report of its management, none of the evils which had since been proved to exist prevailed. He would say a few words with respect to the question before the House. He dis-
 47
 Mr. Estcourt  adverted to some arrangements which had been made in the prison, all of which tended to afford additional convenience to the prisoners. Mr. Hunt had appealed to him, as one of the commissioners, to bear testimony to his conduct, and he must, in justice to that individual, now say that he had seen nothing improper in it; but, on the contrary, that there was direct evidence of its being perfectly correct.
 Mr. Dickinson  thought, that he could not better begin the observations he intended to make, than by referring to an observation that had been made on this subject, by his worthy friend, the member for Norwich, who had said, that at the commencement of the Coldbath-fields examination, the magistrates had persisted with pertinacity in defending their gaoler. He wished the conduct of the magistrates of Somerset to be contrasted with this.
 31 32 33 34
 Mr. Peel  said, that the strong impression he felt, that this particular subject was not fit for the consideration of that House, was a sufficient guarantee, that he would not trouble them with many observations. He felt that he might almost put it to the House, whether, in the course of the hon. baronet's speech, he had laid down any thing like sufficient grounds to induce parliament to interfere with the exclusive prerogative of the Crown, and to depart from that which had been the unvaried practice of the House ever since the Revolution? That practice was, not to express any opinion as to the continuation of a punishment awarded to an individual by a court of justice. On the propriety of adhering to that wise and rational practice, unless compelled to depart from it by some overwhelming necessity, there could be but one opinion. But, if there were one man who, more than another, ought to entertain the opinion that this practice should not be departed from, the hon. baronet was that individual. With his avowed opinions of that House—with his recorded complaints of its encroachments on the peculiar province of the Crown—he conceived that the hon. baronet ought to be the last man to propose a precedent, which, if once established would arrogate to that House a power, than which none could be conceived more fatal to the constitution; since it would have the effect of enlarging the functions of the democratic part of that constitution far beyond its useful and natural boundary. The question was simply this—was there, in this case, circumstances of that overwhelming nature, which should tempt the House to interfere with this most important prerogative—that should induce them to meddle with that peculiar attribute of the Crown, which was wholly alienated from the powers of that House, and was unconnected with the ends for which it was instituted? Before he applied himself to the particular case now before the House, he would offer a remark or two on the observation with which the hon. baronet had prefaced his speech. The hon. baronet alluded to a communication which he had had some time ago,
 35 inter minora crimina; 36 37 38 l 39
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that, before he proceeded to state the grounds on which he would give his vote, he was anxious, on account of the tone which had been adopted by the right hon. gentleman, to declare the grounds on which his vote would not rest. It did not follow, as the right hon. gentleman seemed to suppose, that those who supported the present motion approved of the conduct of Mr. Hunt. He, for one, did not approve of his conduct; but he would support the motion on general principles, and not with reference to the course which Mr. Hunt had pursued. When the right hon. gentleman asked, "Who is Mr. Hunt?" he would answer "He is an Englishman!" He knew Mr. Hunt only in that capacity. On his behalf he made no claim of favour; but he demanded whether he had, or had not, a claim of justice on that House? He should despise himself if, on account of any displeasure he might feel at Mr. Hunt's conduct, he could be induced to abstain from defending those rights of justice which were as sacred in the person of Mr. Hen; as in that of any other Englishman. He did not underrate the charge brought against Mr. Hunt: he did not arraign the verdict, nor dispute the justice of the judgment. He did not take these points into consideration, because they were foreign to the question before the House.
 40 41 42 43 44 45
 Mr. Pelham  rose to present a petition from the county of Lincoln, for, a reform in the representation. A noble
 50
 Sir R. Heron  said, that the meeting was most numerously and respectably attended. The population of Lincolnshire was almost exclusively agricultural. Formerly, contented with their lot, they were little inclined to interfere in political questions, but now, seeing around them the most severe and menacing distress—finding that the legislature was either unable or unwilling to look the state of the country manfully in the face, and administer those remedies by which alone their distresses could be mitigated they were convinced, that no relief was to be expected but from substantial and effective reform.
 Lord Ebrington  presented a petition from Crediton in Devonshire, praying for an effectual and complete reform of parliament. It had been unanimously agreed to at a numerous meeting of the inhabitants regularly convened by the portreeve. This was the twelfth petition on this subject which he had presented from Devon, in the course of the present session and among the petitioners were a large portion of the most respectable gentry, clergy, and yeomanry, of that county. Many more would have petitioned but that feelings now existed, very generally, throughout the country, which discouraged the people from doing so. From the manner in which their petitions were treated they were becoming daily more and more convinced that it was utterly useless to petition that House. Although he was not surprised at this, it was to him matter of the greatest regret; and he could not but express his hope, that the people of England from one end of the kingdom to the other, would persevere in public meetings and in using every means which the law allowed them for the declaration of their opinions on the great and vital question of parliamentary reform. He hoped, too, that the conviction which was so universally prevalent among all ranks of persons out of doors, as to the necessity of correcting the present state of the representation, would, ere long, be enforced even upon the House of Commons itself.
 The Marquis of Tavistock  presented a petition from the county of Bedford, agreed to at a numerous and respectable
 51
 Lord Folkestone  said, that as this was the first time upon which he had risen to deliver his opinions in that House upon the great question which was involved in the motion of the noble lord, he claimed the indulgence of the House while he
 90 91 92 93 l l 94 95 96 "annuality 97 dictum, 98 s d d s s communitas civitatum et burgorum communitas, 99 100
 Mr. Duncombe  said, that the plan of Mr. Pitt went to reduce the rotten boroughs, but that great statesman had strongly deprecated annual parliaments and universal suffrage. He could never consent to hazard the fate of the country upon wild theoretic plans, and would therefore oppose the present motion.
 Mr. Wynn  rose amidst cries of "question." He said, that he should not trespass on the House at any length; but as, after a debate of five hours, not one half hour had been consumed by those who were desirous to oppose the motion, he thought it but fair that some opportunity should be allowed for the statement of their objections. He had also reasons of a more personal nature for wishing to occupy their attention, after the attack which the noble mover had thought proper to make upon him. The noble lord had said, that whether he went among Whigs or Tories, ministers or radicals, the Grenvilles were equally the abhorrence of the country. He was not disposed to shrink from a comparison with the noble lord—he was not ashamed to stand upon his own character, but would fearlessly oppose that character to the character of
 101 102 103 104
 Mr. Robinson  presented himself to the House, and continued on his legs, amidst loud cries for Mr. Canning. He could assure the House, that he would not have interposed between its natural impatience to hear his right hon. friend, and his right hon. friend's speech, had it not been for a personal explanation. The noble lord had adverted to some expressions of his in a former debate, and had adduced them as a motive for adopting the important change which he recommended in the
 105 106
 Lord John Russell  rose and addressed the House as follows * * 52 53 54 55 l 56 l l l l l l l 57 l 58 l 
 
 In the year 1782. In the year 1790. In the year 1821. 
 In England  50 60 135 
 In Scotland  8 27 31 
 In Ireland  3 27 56 
 London daily  9 14 16 
 Twice a week  9 7 8 
 Weekly  0 11 32 
 British Islands  0 0 6 
 79 146 284 59 60 61 62 63 64 l 65 66 67 68 69 experimentum crucis: 70 71 72 73 74 caste. 75 76 77 78 79 80 "Thus, if you dine with my lord May'r. Roast beef and venison are your fare; But tulip leaves and lemon peel Serve only to adorn the meal; And he would be an idle dreamer, Who left the pie and gnaw'd the streamer." 81 ludi maximi, 82 83 84 85 86 87 88
 Mr. Canning  rose and said * * 107 108 109 l purchase willing 110 de jure 111 112 113 not an uniform right of voting; the right of voting is in too small bodies; many great bodies are excluded from voting; the protracted duration of parliaments. * 114 * rasa tabula, uniformity * 115 in time to come: that, then existing 116 117 118 immediately immediate 119 beau idéal 120 for from If If, 121 cherish and protect if if not *Parliamentary History, vol. 30, p. 921. 122 "Os—sublime dedit: cœlumque tueri "Jussit, et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus:" 123 124 dictum 125 my lord have in the parliament belong unto him, menial servants knights of the shire. whom he would have knights of the shire, 126 perform my lord's intent. * my lady to have in this parliament as for one of the burgesses were towards my said lady; were agreed, to have knew the appointment that was taken s d * †Paston Letters, Vol. 2. p. 99. 127 * * †Among the documents alluded to in this passage are the following letters from Robert Devereux, earl of Essex, to Richard Bagot, esq. high sheriff of the county of Stafford; of which the originals are in the possession of lord Bagot. 1.  Robert Devereux, Earl of Essex, to Richard Bagot, Esq. particularly in my name, for my sake; "I persuade myself that my creditt is so good with my countrymen,  as the using my name, in so small a matter, will be enough to effect it: 2.  From the same to the same. one of the knights of that shire for the otter place; use my name 128 which join with you in election that I will most thankfullie requite their readines, and furtherance them by any good office I can. So I comitte you to God's best protection; from Hampton Court, the 9th of January, 1592." "Your assured Friend, "Essex." "I should think my credite little in my owne countrie, if it should not afford so  small a matter as this. as I have interest in your labours 3.  From the same to the same. nomination and election I have named unto them, my kinsman and my servant my servant for my sake, "I send unto you the severall letters, which I praye you cause to be delivered according to their directions." 129 * that * †"It is to be remarked that in those early days of our renovated constitution, the objecttion of lord Tavistock's age was considered merely in relation to himself, and as no ob- 130 right: that stacle to the success of his election. Mr. Montague, in his letter to the duke of Bedford, to obviate any scruple in the duke's mind, mentions that lord Godolphin's son was to be chosen in Cornwall, and lord Leicester's in Kent, who were neither of them older than lord Tavistock: and Mr. Owen, in a letter to lady Russell, tells her the duke of Albemarle's son had been allowed to sit in parliament under age." Ibid, p. 123. 131 on principle. 132 133 any on principle, any on principle, in principle 134 in degree. 135 "They would be free as nature first made man, "Ere the base laws of servitude began, "When wild in woods the noble savage ran." —"O Quis me gelidis in vallibus Hæmi "Sistat, et ingenti ramorum protegat umbrâ!" 136
 Mr. Horace Twiss  said, the House would not expect him to go through a tithe of the various matter adverted to, and the enormous theories by which it had been attempted to support this question. As to the objections urged by the noble lord against the influence of the Crown in that House, it appeared to him, that such influence could only be objectionable when the functions of government were completely exercised out of doors; but when the whole executive was, as it were, carried on in that House, the objection he thought did not stand upon such good ground. The same might be said of the interference of the Lords in that House. But, in advocating innovations upon the existing system of things, the advocates were not entitled to any benefit from the antiquity of any practice. They who opposed them had a right to follow such a course of argument; but surely not they who urged as the foundation of their argument the modern changes of time. But upon those silent changes he was willing to rest the issue of the question between them. And in reply to the augmentation of power in the house of Peers, he would urge the popular party, which in the lapse of time had insensibly grown up in that House, unknown to our ancestors. If bribery and corruption were found to exist in some of the details, it was not fair to charge the system with it. If the outrages of the Westminster mob had been attended with loss of life in the case of sir M. Maxwell, or if the attempt at drowning a candidate on a late occasion at Chester had succeeded, it would have been deemed murder by the law; but would it have been fair to charge these as evils upon the popular system? The noble lord, in his inducements for reform included the expense of boroughs. But, allowing the expense of a borough election to amount to 4,000 l 89
 Mr. Denman  observed, that the whole of the right hon. gentleman's argument was founded in fallacy. He, assumed that a quotation from a speech of Mr. Fox was correct, although, it was most likely the reverse; and, upon that, be founded an argument against the expediency of a reformed House of Commons. After quoting several papers of rather ancient date, he at last brought some bombastic lines of Dryden to bear against the reformers. The hon. and learned gentleman then commented upon the observations which the right hon. gentleman had made upon the subject of the sympathy which existed between the House of Commons and the people, and contended, that the general conduct of the House was opposed to the wishes of the people. The right hon. gentleman had himself furnished some proofs of this; and he could produce another in the case of the late queen. He did not think that the House should blindly obey the wishes of the people, whether they were proper or not; but, in such a case as that to which he had last referred, when not only
 137 "Quorum Flaminia tegitur cinis, atque Latina." 138 "Mounts the tribunal, lifts her scarlet head, "And sees pale Virtue carted in her stead." 139
 Mr. Peel  merely rose to take some notice of an allusion which had been twice made, to an observation which had fallen from him last night. He did not rise to explain away or retract, but to repeat and uphold what he said with reference to the case of Mr. Hunt. He informed the House last night, that he had advised the Crown not to exercise what he considered the peculiar, exclusive, and almost sacred prerogative of mercy, in the case of Mr. Hunt. He had declared, at the same time, that if the House should determine unanimously to address the Crown in behalf of Mr. Hunt, he would not be the instrument for carrying such a recommendation into effect. This sentiment he now repeated. He did not use it as a menace. He felt himself called upon to make that declaration, from a conscientious conviction as to the merits of the case; and he should consider himself unworthy of the place he held, if any circumstances could induce him to become the instrument of carrying into effect a purpose which he felt to be inconsistent with his conscientious sense of duty.
 Mr. Becher  corroborated the hon. baronet's statement, and expressed his fear that, in a very short time, even the scanty subsistence now on hand would be altogether expended.
 Mr. Coke  presented a petition from the hundred of Earsham, in the county of Norfolk. He stated the distress in that part of the country to be such, that many formers were quitting their farms, and giving up agricultural pursuits altogether. He believed most firmly that no relief was to be expected from the noble marquis who had so long managed that House and the country. This was the opinion of the petitioners, all of whom went further than formerly, and called for reform in that House as the only remedy for the existing distress. He agreed with them that the only perfect remedy for the evil was to be found in a reform in that House, and he hoped the example set by these petitioners would be followed by every hundred in the country. If this were done, it would be impossible for the government to resist the public voice. Ultimately, the public voice would make itself heard; but he feared that it would be in some other way than through the medium of that House. He complained of the manner in which the complaints of petitioners had hitherto been treated. Some years ago, on a petition being presented, the noble lord opposite had remarked on the "ignorant impatience of taxation" which prevailed. Perhaps similar language might be held on the present occasion; but, whatever might be said, it was most afflicting to see the county to which he belonged, and which was so closely identified with that noble science to which his life had been devoted, reduced by the burthens under which it laboured almost to a state of beggarry. Relief ought to be given without delay. No attention, however, was paid to the
 144
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that with respect to the report, he thought it right to say, that it had proved generally unsatisfactory, to the country. It did not protect the farmer against the importation of foreign grain; but he had no hesitation in saying, that effectual relief could not be afforded till the great pressure of the public burthens had been mitigated. As the language he held was thought inconsistent with his conduct in some instances, he was anxious to explain his reasons for voting in favour of keeping up the sinking fund, and for opposing the repeal of the salt-tax. Whether in the present state of the country it was wise to preserve the sinking fund was certainly questionable. But he could not make up his mind to dispense with it: as it was difficult to calculate what effect this might produce on public credit. When the question on the salt-tax was brought forward, he had looked at the peculiar situation in which the government was placed. They had lost by the malt-tax, which had been given up, 2,000,000 l. 145
 Mr. Bennet  said, that he was present at the Surrey meeting alluded to, and would observe, that if lord King had not so spoken of Mr. Cobbett, he (Mr. B.) would have said, what he now declared, that Mr. Cobbett was entitled to the thanks of the country, for the able and clear manner in which he investigated many interesting subjects. But if lord King had thought proper to make such a statement, what right had the hon. member to condemn him in his absence? The opinion of the noble lord was as good as that of the hon. member. There was in that noble lord that quickness and acuteness of intellect which, while he was by birth a descendant of the great Locke, was a further proof of his claim to the honour of which he had so much reason to be proud.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, he believed the words used by lord King with respect to Mr. Cobbett, were to the effect, "that he was the most able and intelligent writer of this or any former time, on political subjects." Mr. Cobbett had been a good deal in the county of Norfolk of late. His exertions during the last year had been directed to persuade the people of England that the farmers were the greatest brutes in nature. To hear such a man held up as an object of admiration was shocking; and therefore it was: that he had made the observations which had fallen from him.
 The Marquis or, Londonderry  rose and addressed the committee as follows:* *From the original edition, published by Hatchard, Piccadilly. 151 l. l.: l., l. 152 153 first, secondly, thirdly, 154 155 156 157 l. l. l. l. 158 l. l. l. l. l. 159 160 161 162 163 l. 164 l. 165 l. 166 l. l., sui 167 generis, l. l., l.; l.; 168 l. l., 169 l. l., 170 l., l., l.; l. l., pro tanto, l. l. 171 l.; l., l: l., l. l. l.; l., l. l. 172 l. l. l. 173 l. l. maximum, l.; data l. l., l. l., l.; l. l. l. l., 174 l. l. 175 176 177 178 179 quantum 180 quantum, 181 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. minimum s. s. s. 182 s., s. s. s. s.; 183 s. s. s. s., s. s. s.; s., s., s. s., s. s. s., 184 s. s. s., s. 185 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 186 s. s. s. s. s. s., s., 187 s., s., s., s., s., 188 189 s. s. s. 1. "This it is the opinion of this Committee, that his majesty be enabled to direct Exchequer bills, to an amount not exceeding one million, to be issued to commissioners in Great Britain, to be by them advanced under certain regulations and restriction, whenever the average price of wheat shall be under 60 s. 2. "That it is expedient to permit the holders of foreign corn now in warehouses, to have the same ground into flour, for the purpose of exportation, under such regulations as 190 pro formâ 191 may guard against the fraudulent introduction of any part of the said corn for home consumption. 3. "That whenever foreign wheat shall have been admitted for home consumption, under the provisions of an act made in the 55th year of his late majesty, the scale of prices at which the home consumption of foreign corn, meal or corn, is permitted by the said act, shall cease and determine. 4. "That foreign corn, meal or flour, shall be permitted to be imported into the United Kingdom, for home consumption, whenever the average prices of British corn shall be at or above the prices hereafter mentioned; that is to say, whenever wheat shall be at or above 70 s. s. s. s. 5. "That whenever foreign corn, meal or flour, shall be admissible, there shall be levied and paid the duties hereinafter mentioned, whether such corn, meal or dour, shall have been imported and warehoused previous to its becoming so admissible for home consumption, or otherwise; that is to say, 
 
 When imported from any Foreign Country. Wheat. Rye, Pease, and Beans. Barley, Bear, or Bigg. Oats. 
 If under per quarter 80 s. 53 s. 40 s. 0 d. 28 s. 0 d. 
 High Duty 12 s.  0 d. 8 s. 0 d. 6 s. 0 d. 4 s.  0 d. 
 Additional for first 3 months 5 s.  0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 If at or above per qr. 80 s. 53 s. 40 s. 0 d. 28 s. 0 d. 
 But under do. 85 s. 56 s. 42 s. 6 d. 30 s. 0 d. 
 First low duty 5 s.  0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  6 d. 
 Additional for first 3 months 5 s.  0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 If at or above per quarter 85 s. 55 s. 42 s. 6 d. 30 s. 
 Second low duty 1 s.  0 d. 0 s. 8 d. 0 s. 6 d. 0 s.  4 d. 
 Duty upon Wheat meal and flour, to be as follows: Duty upon Oatmeal to be as follows: 
 First high duty per cwt. when Wheat is under s. per quarter 3 s.  3 d. High duty per boll, when Oats are under s. per qr. 4 s.  10 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s.  7d. Additional, for first 3 months 2 s.  2 d. 
 First low duty, when wheat is at or above s. per quarter, but under s. per qr. 1 s.  7 d. First low duty, when Oats are at or above s. s. per quarter 2s. 2d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s.  7 d. Additional for first 3 months 2 s.  2 d. 
 Second low duty, when wheat is at or above s. 0 s.  4 d. Second low duty, when Oats are at or above s. per quarter 0 s.  6 d. 
 Malt made of Wheat prohibited. Rye ground or malt made of Rye, Pease ground and Beans ground prohibited. Barley, Indian Corn, or Maize, Bear or Bigg, ground, and Malt made of Barley, Indian Corn or Maize Bear or Bigg Prohibited. Malt made of Oats Prohibited. 6. "That it is the opinion of this Committee, that whenever the scale of prices at which the home consumption of foreign corn, meal or flour, is permitted by the said act, shall cease and determine, then the scale of prices at which corn, meal, or flour, being the growth, produce, or 192 193 manufacture, of any British colony or plantation in North America, is admissible for home consumption shall also cease and determine. 7. "That, corn, meal, or flour, the growth, produce, or manufacture, of any British colony or plantation in North America, shall be permitted to be imported into the United Kingdom, for home consumption, whenever the average prices of British corn, shall be at or above the prices hereinafter mentioned; that is to say, whenever wheat shall be at or above 59 s. s. s. s. s. 8. "That whenever the prices of British corn shall be below the prices before specified, corn or meal, or flour, made from any of the respective sorts of corn before enumerated, the growth produce, or manufacture of any British colony or plantation in North America; shall no longer be allowed to be imported into the united kingdom for home consumption. 9. "That, whenever, corn, meal or flour, of the growth, produce, or manufacture, of any British colony or plantation in North America, shall be admissible for home consumption there shall he levied and paid the duties hereinafter mentioned, upon all such corn, mealy, or flour, when admitted for home consumption, whether such corn, meal or flour, shall have been imported and warehoused previous to its becoming so admissible for home consumption, or otherwise; that is to say, 
 
 When imported from the Province of Quebec, or the other British Colonies or Plantations in North America. Wheat. Rye, Pease, and Beans. Barley, Bear or Bigg. Oats. 
 If under per quarter 67 s. 44 s. 33 s. 0 d. 22 s. 6 d. 
 High duty 12 s.  0 d. 8 s. 0 d. 0 s. 6 d. 4 s. 0 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 5 s.  0 d. 3 s 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s. 0 d. 
 If at or above per. qr. 67 s. 44 s. 33 s. 0 d. 22 s. 6 d. 
 But under do. 71 s. 46 s. 35 s. 6 d. 24 s 0 d. 
 First low duty 5 s.  0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s 6 d. 2 s. 0 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 5 s.  0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s. 0 d. 
 If at or above per qr. 71 s. 46 s. 35 s. 0 d. 24 s. 0 d. 
 Second low duty 1 s.  0 d. 0 s. 8 d. 0 s. 8 d. 0 s. 4 d. 
 Duty upon Wheat, Meal or Flour, to be as follows. Duty upon Oatmeal to be as follows: 
 First high duty per cwt. When wheat is under s. per qr. 3 s.  3 d. High duty per boll, when Oats are under s. d. per qr. 4 s. 10 d: 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s.  7 d. Additional for first 3months 2 s. 2 d. 
 First low duty, when Wheat is at or above s. per qr. but under s. per qr. 1 s.  7 d. First low duty, when Oats are at or above s. d. per qr. but under  s. ditto  2 s. 2 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s.  7 d. Additional, for first 3 months 2 s. 2 d. 
 Second low duty when Wheat is at or above s. per quarter 0 s.  4 d. Second low duty, when Oats are at or s. per qr. 6 d. 
 Malt made of Wheat, prohibited. Rye, ground, or Malt made of Rye, Pease, ground and Beans ground prohibited. Barley, Indian Corn, or Maize, Bear or Bigg ground, and Malt, made of Barley, Indian Corn or Maize, Bear or Bigg, prohibited. Malt made of Oats prohibited. 194 195 10. "That, foreign corn, meal, or flour, in warehouse, may be taken out of warehouse for home consumption, whenever the average prices of British corn shall be as follows; that is to say, whenever wheat shall be at or above 70 s. s. s. s. 11. "That no such foreign corn, meal, or flour, in warehouse, shall be taken out of warehouse, unless there be previously paid upon such corn, meal, or flour, the several duties following; that is to say, 
 
 When imported from any Foreign Country. Wheat Rye, Pease, and Beans. Barley, Bear, or Bigg. Oats. 
 If under per quarter 80 s. 53 s. 40 s. 0 d. 28 s. 
 High duty 12 s. 0 d. 8 s. 0 d. 6 s. 0 d. 4 s.  0 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 5 s. 0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 If at or above per qr 80 s. 53 s. 40 s. 0 d. 28 s. 
 But under do 85 s. 56 s. 42 s. 6 d. 30 s. 
 First low duty 5 s. 0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 5 s. 0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 If at or above per qr 85 s. 55 s. 42 s. 6 d. 30 s. 
 Second low duty 1 s. 0 d. 0 s. 8 d. 0 s. 6 d. 0 s.  4 d. 
 Duty upon Wheat, Meal and Flour, to be as follows Duty upon Oatmeal to be as follows: 
 First high duty per cwt. when Wheat is under s. per quarter 3 s. 3 d. High duty per boll, when Oats are under s. 4 s.  10 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s. 7 d. Additional, for first 3 months 2 s.  2 d. 
 First low duty, when Wheat is at or above s. per qr., but under s. 1 s 7 d. First low duty, when Oats are at or above s. per qr. but under s. per qr. 2 s.  2 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s. 7 d. Additional, for first 3 months 2 s.  2 d. 
 Second low duty, when Wheat is at or above s. per quarter 0 s. 4 d. Second low duty, when Oats are at or above s. per qr. 0 s.  6 d. 
 Malt made of Wheat prohibited. Rye ground, or Malt made of Rye, Pease, ground, and Beans ground prohibited. Barley, Indian Corn, or Maize, Bear or Bigg, ground, and Malt made of Barley, Indian Corn, or Maize, Bear or Bigg prohibited. Malt made of Oats, prohibited. 12. "That any corn, meal, or flour, of the growth, produce, or manufacture of any British colony or plantation in North America, in warehouse, may be taken out of warehouse for home consumption, whenever the average prices of British corn shall be as follows: that is to say, whenever wheat shall be at or above 59 s. s. s. s. 196 197 
 
 When imported from the Province of Quebec, or the other British Colonies or Plantations in North America. Wheat Rye, Pease, and Beans. Barley, Rear, or Bigg. Oats. 
 If under per quarter 67 s. 44 s. 33 s. 0 d. 22 s. 6 d. 
 High duty 12 s. 0 d. 8 s. 0 d. 6 s. 0 d. 4 s.  0 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 5 s. 0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 If at or above per qr. 67 s. 44 s. 33 s. 0 d. 22 s. 6 d. 
 But under do 71 s. 46 s. 35 s. 6 d. 24 s. 0 d. 
 First low duty 5 s. 0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 5 s. 0 d. 3 s. 6 d. 2 s. 6 d. 2 s.  0 d. 
 If at or above per qr. 71 s. 46 s. 35 s. 0 d. 24 s. 0 d. 
 Second low duty 1 s. 0 d. 0 s. 8 d. 0 s. 8 d. 0 s.  4 d. 
 Duty upon Wheat, Meal or Flour, to be as follows: Duty upon Oatmeal to be as follows: 
 First high duty per cwt. when Wheat is under s. per quarter 3 s. 3 d. High duty per boll, when Oats are under s. d. per qr. 4 s.  10 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s. 7 d. Additional, for first 3 months 2 s.  2 d. 
 First low duty, when Wheat is at or above s. per qr. but under s. per quarter 1 s. 7 d. First low duty, when Oats are at or above s. d. per qr., but under s. do. 2 s.  2 d. 
 Additional, for first 3 months 1 s. 7 d. Additional, for first 3 months 2 s.  2 d. 
 Second low duty, when Wheat is at or above s. per quarter 0 s. 4 d. Second low duty, when Oats are at or above s. per qr. 0 s.  6 d. 
 Malt made of Wheat prohibited. Rye ground or Malt made of Rye, Pease, ground, and Beans ground, prohibited. Barley, Indian Corn, or Maize, Bear or Bigg, ground, and Malt made of Barley, Indian Corn, or Maize, Bear or Bigg prohibited. Malt made of Oats prohibited. 13. "That whenever the ports of the United Kingdom shall be shut against the importation of foreign corn, meal, or flour, for home consumption, the said ports shall be also shut against the importation of corn, meal, or flour, the growth, produce, or manufacture of the islands of Guernsey, Jersey, Alderney, and Sark."
 Mr. Western,  after observing that he thought the propositions made by the noble lord might be more advantageously considered in detail at a future period, confessed that he had been much astonished at the introduction in the noble lord's speech of many most important topics, which, in his opinion, were very much misplaced, and would have been much better in the hands of the chancellor of the exchequer. With respect to the resolution for issuing a million to be applied in advances on stored corn, he was per-
 198 199
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that, having a proposition which he wished to submit to the house, he offered himself thus early to the committee. He was desirous of laying his proposition before the House, as the noble lord had laid his, in order that the House might have an opportunity of judging of their several merits. The hon.
 200 l. l.; s. s. s., s. s., s., s. 201 s., s., 
 1. "That it is expedient to provide that the foreign corn now under bond in the United Kingdom may be taken out for home consumption, whenever the average price of wheat, ascertained in the usual mode, shall exceed 65 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. 2. "That whenever the average price of wheat, ascertained in the usual mode, shall exceed 70 s. s. s. d. s. s. d. 3. "That at the expiration of one year from the time at which the above duties on corn imported shall be in operation, they be reduced as follows:—On wheat, 1 s. d. d. d 4. "That a like reduction of duties be made in every subsequent year, until the duty on the importation of wheat be 10 s. s. d, s, s. d. 5. "That a drawback or bounty be allowed on the exportation of corn to foreign countries, On wheat, 7 s. 202 s. d. s. d. s. d.
 Mr. Brougham  thought, that notwithstanding the very proper delay of the main question, it would not be improper to consider some of the minor points. He did not wish to argue whether the distress of which the agriculturists were complaining was peculiar to them, or whether it was less confined in its operation; whether it confined itself to them, or spread itself over the other classes of the community; whether, in short, the whole country was in a state of suffering, or that all which the agriculturists lost was gained by the other classes. He thought that the course of argument which he should adopt, when the great question came to be discussed, would be, that the whole country was suffering. The late events had shown this; and he could not help remarking, that no statesman, no government, could regard it in any other light. If the whole was suffering, then there was nothing to set off against the agricultural distress. He was not prepared to admit that the condition of any one class of the people was good. If the agriculturists were suffering more severely than the manufacturers and commercialists, still their distress was comparative. The others were not to be reckoned prosperous. Moreover, though wages were better, in reference to the high prices which had been formerly paid for provisions, yet the prospect for workmen was extremely precarious. The profits of those who employed workmen, was were extremely moderate. If, then, in this state of wages and profits, any increase of prices should take place, the altered state of things would reduce others to that distress to which the farmer had fallen. One project which the noble lord had brought forward was a kind of substitute for one which had been on the point of emanating from the agricultural committee. He alluded to the project for the hiring of corn. He knew not who was the author of it. It was not the author of last year's report, he was sure; but if he saw him opposite to him, he congratulated him on one of the most ridiculous contrivances which had ever been invented. It was this signal device: "Whereas there is a difficulty in obtaining a demand for corn, and the farmer cannot sell, God forbid the government
 203 l. l. 204 l. l. l. l. 205 l., 206
 Mr. Goulburn  expressed his surprise that the hon. baronet should have taken that premature opportunity of calling upon the House to enter into the consideration of the state of the peasantry in Ireland. He was the more surprised at this course, as the hon. baronet had been in daily communication with him upon the subject of this distress, and must have known that, if he had hitherto refrained from stating the views of the Irish government, it was not from any want of sympathy for the sufferers, nor from the slightest inclination to withhold whatever relief the government of Ireland could practically afford; but from a firm conviction, that the agitation of the subject would augment rather than alleviate the evils which the hon. baronet had so feelingly deplored. Supposing the distress to be as general in the south of Ireland as the hon. baronet had depicted it to be, and the condition of the resident gentry so reduced as to render them unable to mitigate the condition of their peasantry, to whom, the hon. baronet asked, but to the government, Could the
 149 l. s. s. s.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that this was not the first time that the hon. member had I expressed his anxiety to relieve the dis-
 143
 Mr. Huskisson  agreed with the hon. and learned gentleman, that the only real sinking fund was that which was composed of a clear excess of revenue over expenditure. He declared that he would object to the plan proposed, if he thought it in any way touched upon the principle of the sinking fund. Another part of his noble friend's plan, went to extend the period during which country bank notes, under the value of 5 l. l. l. 207 208 pro forma, 209 
 1. "That the ports of the United Kingdom were shut against the importation of foreign wheat, for home consumption, in the month of February, 1819, the average price being then 78 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 2. "That in the year 1819, the quantity of British wheat imported into the port of London was 300,416 quarters; in 1820, 399,009 quarters; and in 1821, 494,828 quarters; and that during the whole of this period of three years, the supply, in all the principal markets of the United Kingdom, appears uniformly to have exceeded the demand, notwithstanding the wants of an increasing population, and other circumstances, which have probably produced an increased annual consumption. 3. "That this excess of the supply above the demand must have arisen either from an extent of corn tillage more than commensurate to the average consumption of the country; or from a succession of abundant harvests upon the same extent of tillage; or from the coincident effect of both these causes. 4. "That in the fluctuation of se sons, the effect of the present corn law must be, to expose, sometimes the grower of corn to the losses incident to an over redundant produce, and at other times the consumer to the pressure inseparable from dearth; that the free importation of foreign corn (the remedy provided by the law for the latter evil), if wanted to a great amount, must be precarious in proportion as the demand is unusual; and that against the former evil the law affords to the grower no relief whatever. 5. "That the alternate evils of redundancy and scarcity cannot fail to be aggravated by the alternate excitement and depression to which the agriculture of the United Kingdom must be exposed, under the present system of our corn laws. 6. "That another evil effect of this system is, to convert farming into a hazardous and gambling speculation, which, however prudently managed, must occasionally involve great losses to the capitals engaged in agriculture. 7. "That a free trade in foreign corn, subject to certain duties on the importation thereof for home consumption, was at all times permitted, prior to the act of the 55th Geo. 3rd, c. 26. 8 "That since the passing of that act, by which such importation is prohibited until the average price of wheat shall have reached or exceeded, for a certain time, 80 s. 9. "That to obviate the prejudicial effects
 210 10. "That in order to render this repeal safe to the grower of British corn, and gradual in its operation, under the present accumulation of foreign grain in the warehouses of this country and in the ports of the continent, it is expedient to provide that the foreign wheat now under bond in the United Kingdom may be taken out for home consumption, upon-the payment of a duty of 15 s. s. s 11. "That the trade in foreign corn shall thenceforth be permanently free; but subject to the following duties upon importation, or when taken out of warehouse for home consumption:— wheat, 15 s. s.; s.; s., s. d. s.; s., s. d. s.; s. s.:
 Sir E. O'Brien  disclaimed imputing the slightest neglect to the Irish government, but repeated that he thought parliament
 150
 Sir E. O'Brien  said, that before the House proceeded to the important business of the day, he wished to point out to the gentlemen around him, the very dreadful and calamitous situation to which a great portion of his countrymen were reduce. There were at that moment thousands of persons in Ireland, who, in consequence of the failure of the late potatoe crop, were reduced to a single meal a day, and that meal generally consisted of oatmeal and water. It was well known that, generally speaking, the whole population of the South of Ireland lived, during a great portion of the year, upon potatoes; but, during the last year, the incessant rains which prevailed, had totally decayed and destroyed that vegetable in the ground. At the late assizes in his county, the distressed state of the people was taken into consideration, and a representation of that distress was made to the
 147 148 l. l.
 Mr. Gooch  presented a petition from several considerable land owners in Suffolk, complaining of agricultural distress. The petitioners prayed, that such a reduction of public expenditure might be effected as would justify a further reduction of taxation; but they expressed an apprehension, that no immediate relief could be derived from that source. He viewed with great dismay the distressed state of the agriculturists. A remission of taxation he knew would assist them; and as far as a reduction of establishment could enable that to be done, he would do it. He had felt it his duty to move in the last session, that some notice should be taken of the numerous agricultural petitions on the table of the House. In the committee which was appointed, he was nominated chairman, and he would not flinch from any of the responsibility that might attach to him on that account. It had been thought proper that that committee should be re-appointed this year; but he was sorry to say, that their report contained nothing satisfactory to the country. It proposed no measures calculated to afford immediate adequate relief. It should, however, be borne in mind how difficult it was to discover any such remedy for the present evils. The markets were glutted to the extreme, and corn must either be removed from the market, or more money must be brought into it for that purpose. A prohibitory duty on the importation of corn was what would be most beneficial to the farmer. When the ports were opened in 1820, by means of a fraud, 700,000 quarters of oats were admitted; and with an average consumption of 30,000,000 a-year, it was surprising the effect which that importation had in lowering the prices. He agreed in the system of duties, but not as to the  quantum:
 Sir T. Lethbridge  took that opportunity of declaring his opinion, that if the motion that night about to be made by a right hon. gentleman was carried, the whole object would have been accomplished. The reason why petitions had not been numerously laid on the table, was, that the great body of the people were so absorbed in the consideration of their own distresses as to be totally indifferent political subjects. He protested, however, against their silence being construed in favour of that motion. The people still continued decidedly hostile to the question. He trembled, however, at the probable effect the right hon. gentleman's (Mr. Canning's)
 211
 The Hon. G. A. Ellis  seconded the motion, and said, that after the eloquent and convincing speech of his right hon. friend, it would be bad taste, and indeed presumptuous, in so humble an individual as himself to trespass long on the attention of the House. He was always of opinion that the general measure of removing the Catholic disabilities, was a measure of right and of justice. The part of that question which was then before them had an additional claim to their favour, inasmuch as it related to an exclusion which had its origin in a plot which was supported by perjury, and in the existence of which no one of the present day believed. He hoped the stain would be soon removed from the Statute-book. He recollected a saying of that spirited defender of the Protestant ascendancy, queen Elizabeth, who being advised to administer tests to the Catholics, replied, that she had better means of ascertaining the loyalty of the peers.
 Mr. Martin,  of Galway, said, the Catholics of the county with which he spas connected, were most anxious for the success of the present measure. The speech of the right hon. secretary would apply with equal force to the times when the mitigation of the penal code was first under consideration, as to the present time, and even with greater; for surely it was unreasonable to refuse the small advantages that remained, when every thing of real magnitude was already in their possession. It mattered very little what
 266
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that the peculiar ground upon which the motion of his right hon. friend rested had been so completely exhausted by his luminous statement, that he should nut have trespassed on the House with a single observation, were it not that he had the petition of his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects in his hand. If, being so circumstanced, he had continued silent, it might have been supposed that he felt the present question as an interference with the motion which at a future period he was bound to bring forward. It was in order to negative that impression that he now rose. He agreed perfectly in the motion of his; right hon. friend, because he considered it as a step towards the general measure; but, even if he did not consider it in that light, he should still feel himself called upon to support it as an act of substantial justice, though not going to the full extent which justice demanded. Last session when the great question was before the House in all its parts and bearings—with all its qualifications and securities—considerable embarrassments were thrown in the way of those who supported It was finally carried, and received the sanction of that House; but, during its progress, it was involved in multifarious details, and accompanied by guards and securities which endangered its success. He did not complain that it was unfairly dealt with in the opposition which it had received from his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel); but that opposition, joined to the complexity of its details, occasioned its friends considerable embarrassment. Some of those members who supported the measure anticipated so little danger that they objected to the securities, while others thought all securities insufficient. It was, therefore, to him a great source of satisfaction to see a measure introduced so little liable to misconstruction, and so little connected with danger, as to relieve its friends from all those embarrassments. Nothing could be more simple than the object of his right hon. friend He proposed to repeal a part of an act which excluded a few Irish and British peers from their seats in the upper House, and to restore them to the enjoyment of this
 267 268 269 270 271
 Lord F. Gower  could not hesitate to declare his sentiments in favour of the motion. So long as the restrictions were removed from the Catholics, he cared not about the anomalies so much dwelt upon by the opponents of the measure. He was anxious to do an act of justice, and he was clearly convinced of the justice of the claim of the Catholic peers. If the six Catholic peers were the rankest Jesuits that ever infested the Escurial, he should be ashamed of having a seat in that House if their admission to participate in all their just rights in the legislature could excite one moment's alarm in that House. He considered the fears of those who resisted the Catholic claims generally to be altogether chimerical.
 Mr. Wetherell  rose amidst a loud cry for the question. He considered the proposition a novelty, and was desirous of making a few observations on some of its points. The right hon. mover had departed from the principle upon which the greatest authorities had supported the claims to Catholic emancipation. He might mention Pitt, Fox, Windham, and Ponsonby. Those distinguished characters had all declared, that no measure but a general measure should be brought before parliament. It was formerly held that concessions should be made on one side and security given on the other. By that arrangement Catholics and Protestants were to be reconciled. That was the proposition on which the bill of last session was founded; but the measure proposed by the right hon. gentleman was all concession on one side, and no security on the other. If Catholic peers were allowed to sit in the House of Peers, could that House say that Catholic commoners should not come to the House of Commons? If they were to be admitted, which they must be if the present proposition was adopted, what would become of Mr. Pitt's principle, that no concession could be made without securities for the preservation of the constitution. The right hon. gentleman proposed the intro-
 272 273
 Mr. Canning  rose to reply. After the full measure of indulgence which the House, in its kindness, had extended to him, he assured them that he reluctantly availed himself of that privilege which the forms of the House extended to those who had the honour of submitting any proposition to its deliberation. There were, however, some points in the speech of his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel), and in that of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, so peculiar, that he could not forego the opportunity or making a few observations upon them. If the measure he had introduced was of the singular character the hon. and learned gentleman had described it to be, he must say that it had been treated by its opponents with equal singularity. If they had not given him arguments, they were at least not sparing in admonitions—gentle indeed, but still admonitions against the course which he had pursued. All the speeches of these opponents, not excepting the speech of the noble lord, who was in the habit of presenting to the House the very petitions of those Catholic peers, whose restoration to their hereditary honours he was then advocating, dwelt not upon the impropriety of the measure itself, but on the imprudence of bringing it forward at the present time, and in its present shape. His right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) even—no doubt with that anxiety for the entire question for which he was so peculiarly distinguished—even he had pointed out the inexpediency of the measure, because, forsooth, it tended in its present shape, to defeat the success of the general question. He was free to confess that, when he entered the House that day, he entertained some doubts suggested by the inexpediency of the motion he was about to make. Since he had heard the speeches of the opponents of that motion, those doubts had vanished and he now with confidence felt, that its success was the certain harbinger of that larger and more comprehensive concession, which his right hon. friend, the secretary of state for the home department, no longer deprecated, but it would seem
 274 275 276 277
 Mr. Canning  rose and said: * * 212 213 data, 214 215 both apparently 216 argumentum ad hominem, 217 not * * 218 219 220 believe * * 221 222 * * 223 now now now now, either either the more easy prevention of the danger with which religion was threatened, from the hopes conceived by the Papists of seeing the duke of York on the throne after his brother, who neither had, nor expected to have, any legitimate issue. This danger caused several members of the Commons to form the project of a bill for excluding the duke of York from the succession to the Crown: but this was done by degrees."—RAPIN, Vol. 2. (folio) p. 692. 224 225 by order of that House, Lords 226 fitting at this time. 227 either or, 228 229 could of late," 230 no ecclesiastical or spiritual any temporal or civil "civil and temporal" 231 "ecclesiastical and spiritual" "temporal and civil," "ecclesiastical and spiritual," 232 233 Purpurea tollant aulæa Britanni, 234 duresse, 235 236 237 "Res dura, et regni novitas—" one now now, now now now now 238 it is now manifest that the said late viscount Stafford was innocent of the treasons laid to his charge, and that the testimony whereupon he was convicted was false: 239 legal murder." 240 241 "In their own dimensions like themselves." 242 there 243 244 bonâ fide 245 246
 Lord Nugent  said, he entertained certain opinions with respect to the whole question of Catholic emancipation, and feeling these opinions strongly and conscientiously, he approached the motion with considerable difficulty. He could not see how, in point of principle, the grounds on which they advanced to this question could be fairly severed from the case of the Roman Catholic body in general. The question was, whether there any longer existed a justification, or a semblance of justification, for excluding the Roman Catholics generally, on account of their religious belief, from those civil privileges of which they had been so long deprived? He thought that this subject could stand on no other parliamentary ground with advantage. On none, he was sure, could it be placed so plain and so direct; and, he for one, might be allowed to say, that on none could it be advocated so beneficially in parliament; because, by stating the question thus generally, the onus of making
 262 263 264
 Mr. Warre  could not agree with his noble friend in some of the arguments which he had urged against the motion. In the year 1813 it was not objected to the bill for removing the disabilities which excluded Catholics from the army and navy, that it was only a partial measure.
 265
 Mr. Peel  said, that if his right hon. friend knew to the full extent how sincerely he admired his great talents—if he knew the great delight which he uniformly felt and expressed on every occasion where he had the good fortune to have heard his right hon. friend, he would be able to understand the regret with which he rose to answer the eloquent speech with which the House had been that night delighted. With those who did not know him, he feared he should incur the charge of presumption; but with respect to the
 247 248 249 250 eo nomine, 251 252 253 "Some truth there was, but dashed and brewed with lies, To please the fools and puzzle all the wise; Succeeding times will equal folly call, Believing nothing, or believing all"— 254 l., l., 255 duresse, * * 256 257 258 de rebus concernentibus Ecclesiam Anglicanam, 259 260 261
 Mr. Peel  presented a petition from the university of Oxford against the Roman Catholic claims.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proceeded to call the attention of the committee, not to the general plan which his noble friend had laid before the House a few night ago, but to that detached part of it which related to the commutation of the expenses of the country in the items of half-pay, fixed annuities, or civil allowances. By adopting the plan of his noble friend there would be a saving to the country of between 2,000,000 l l 281 282 l l l l 283 284 l l l l l 285
 Colonel Davies  thought, that the project was a covert attack upon the sinking fund: it was relieving ourselves at the expense of posterity. He thought that the public would be exposed to considerable loss, calculating upon a payment annually of 2,800,000 l l l l l l l l
 The Marquis of Londonderry  could not
 294 sui generis 295
 Mr. Grenfell  did not disapprove of the plan, nor did he think it interfered with the sinking fund. The whole question was, whether or not we should contract with person to pay 5,000,000 l l
 Lord Ebrington  considered the present plan to make against the principle of the sinking fund, as it went to relieve ourselves by throwing part of the present burthens on posterity. If acted upon, he thought it would be better to contract with the commissioners of the sinking fund. He wished to see the country relieved immediately from its present weight of taxation by means of that fund. If he could not get all that he wished for, that was no reason why he should not Like all he could get. He therefore felt bound to support the present measure. He was convinced that in the next session of parliament more taxes must be taken off; and he thought much had been gained on the present occasion by the admission of the principle, that we were justified in dividing the burthens so severely felt with posterity. In another session he hoped the sinking fund would be dealt with more largely; indeed, he trusted that it would be wholly given up to the public.
 Mr. Maberly  contended, that this country had in reality had no sinking fund at any time. The course pursued by government was a perfect delusion. They first took five millions for a sinking fund, and now they came down with a proposition which amounted to a new loan. Was it not a plainer and better course, to take the sum directly out of the sinking fund, and by that means avoid the large expense, which they must incur by the present measure? The present plan struck
 296
 Mr. Benett, of Wilts,  expressed his satisfaction at the admissions implied in the proposed scheme, that the sinking fund was a delusion. He would support the present measure, as he had always been for applying the sinking fund to the relief of taxation.
 Mr. Ricardo  was astonished how ministers could come down with grave faces, and propose such a measure, after all the anxiety they had expressed on the subject of the sinking fund. This plan was nothing more nor less than an invasion of that fund. The chancellor of the exchequer had said, that these annuities were a part of the debt of the country. This he (Mr. R.) admitted. But, supposing the object of ministers was, to relieve the country from taxation to the amount of 2,200,000 l 288 l l l l l l
 Mr. Bright  contended, that the whole scheme was a delusion, designed to direct the eye of the public from what ought to be the great object of parliament—a reduction of taxation. The salt-tax and the duty on leather might hereby be removed; but the country would eventually pay dear for it. Was it to be supposed, that a contractor who would receive no benefit until the expiration of 16 years, and whose term would not expire for nearly half a century, would be satisfied with any thing less than a very extravagant interest? This plan affected the whole system of superannuations. Many most illegal allowances had been made; and if this project were carried, these allowances could never be revised.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that nothing had tended to alter the impression which he had formed on the first assumption of the plan. Ministers had not even attempted to disguise that this plan was in direct contradiction to the sinking fund. Every pound which it affected to save was so much taken from that fund. The noble lord had got hold of the sinking fund in one quarter, and in another the chancellor of the exchequer was to pay it away. Thus, the sum came from the same purse: the public always paid the piper: it was the same operation under different names. The present scheme was a commutation of an annuity on lives, into a fixed annuity for the period of 45 years. Government were to pay 2,800,000 l l 297
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, the charge for half-pay and pensions was that of a debt of five millions a-year, which debt
 287
 Mr. J. Martin  said, that if this proposition had been made by any of those who were hostile to the sinking fund, it would not have surprised him; but that those who expressed so much partiality to the sinking fund system should propose a motion like the present was indeed extraordinary. If the principle were admitted, why might they not convert the long annuities of 38 years into much longer annuities? Why might they not, in the same manner, convert the tontine and other annuities into long annuities also?, Now, it was remarkable, that at the present day, government were granting life annuities. The fact was, that ministers adopted this new plan, because they were determined not to reduce the expenditure. They had made up their minds to continue the employment of useless postmasters-general and expensive clerks. He thought it was absolutely necessary for the credit of the country that a sinking fund should exist beyond the expenditure; land as this measure militated against the principle of that fund, he would give it ' every opposition in his power.
 Mr. Monck  thought the present scheme was directly opposed to the principle of the sinking fund. He, however, would support the measure as a wise measure, because it went to effect a reduction of taxation. He, however, thought it might be more advantageous to purchase the annuities enjoyed by young military officers. This might prove beneficial to those individuals, as well as advantageous to the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the noble marquis had promised a plan by which the public was to be relieved from a part of the dead weight for naval and military pensions. Now, the resolution before the committee applied no more to that dead weight of naval and military pensions than to any of the ether charges with which the nation was loaded. The boasted plan which
 291 l l l l l l 292 l l l 293 l l
 Mr. Beaumont  said, it had been observed that this proposition would divert the attention of the public from the necessity of reducing the weight of taxation. If it were likely to have such an effect, he would so far be hostile to the measure; but he thought it would not be a probable consequence of the proposition. He entirely agreed with those who were of opinion that the taxes should be diminished; and, for that very reason, he looked upon this measure as desirable, because, to a certain extent, it would relieve the public burthens. He admitted that the proposition was not consistent with what the chancellor of the exchequer had so often said relative to the sinking fund: but he did not find fault with that inconsistency since it enabled parliament to relieve those who had already made great exertions, and left posterity to bear some portion of the burthen. If his project even went to remove the whole of the sinking fund, he would not object to it.
 Mr. T. Wilson  would support the proposed plan, because all the benefit would accrue from it which had been predicted from the infringement of the sinking fund, without the evils arising from such a course. It had been said, that if they did not change their measures willingly, they would be forced to do so by the taxes becoming unproductive. It. was for this reason that he wished to preserve the sinking fund, which might be useful in supplying deficiencies in case of such an event occurring. This plan, too, offered that relief for the agricultural distress which gentlemen had been calling for.
 Mr. Huskisson  did not mean to controvert the indisputable proposition of his hon. friend, that a debt of 5,000,000 l 289 l l l l l 290
 Mr. James  presented a petition from Carlisle, praying for a speedy Reform of Parliament. He attributed the present distress to excessive taxation. The hon. member for Portarlington had said, that the variation in the currency, occasioned by the cash payments bill, did not exceed 10 per cent. He differed from him. That hon. member had differed from himself at various times. He had at one time said, that the difference between the value a gold and paper did not exceed three per cent, then 3½ then 4, and so on till he now stated it at 10; but whoever took the trouble of reading Mr. Cobbett's little pamphlets on the subject (and they were to be had at a cheap rate), would be convinced that the hon. member knew nothing at all about the matter [much laughter!]. The hon. member had also said, that the prices depended on the supply and demand; but if he had read Cobbett, he would have found that the prices also depended upon the quantity of the circulating medium in the market; and that when the circulation was much limited; the result would be to double the weight of taxation.
 Mr. W. Williams  was favourable to the maintenance of a real sinking fund, operating a reduction of the public debt. We had, in fact, never possessed one. The fund that went by that name had increased instead of diminished the debt, and all our plans of finance had led to a similar result. It was vain to say that the resolutions would lead to a diminution of the public debt. At the end of 45 years the public debt would be less diminished than if they had taken the sum directly out of the sinking fund. Reduction of taxation was the only effectual relief that could be afforded.
 Sir J. Newport  insisted, that the principle of the scheme was directly in contravention of the sinking fund. If the sinking fund was to be abandoned, would it not be more rational to allow the commissioners for the redemption of the national debt to become the contractors? Thus, the double machinery now contemplated would be avoided, as well as the large bonus which the contractor
 286
 Mr. Western  said, it was true, that at that period the currency was in a very unnatural state; and yet it was in that very year that the House recorded the resolution, that a one pound note and a shilling were equal in value to a guinea. The case of the petitioner was the case of thousands who were now the victims of that fraudulent vote.
 Lord Normanby  said, that he rose on the present occasion with less reluctance than formerly, having so fully experienced the indulgence of the House, to the dry detail into which he had felt it his duty to enter. If the question rested now on the same grounds as when he last addressed the House, he should not trespass upon their patience further than by making his motion. But, if he had now a stronger claim than before to the attention of the House, it was the conduct of those who opposed the motion, and not of those who supported the motion, on which he rested it. It was their arguments, not his, on which he rested his claim. It was their arguments, not his, which had rendered the question important. It was their arguments, not his, which had made the matter a subject of conversation from one end of the kingdom to the other. It was their arguments, not his, which, at every public meeting that had since taken place
 299 300 301 l 302 303
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the noble lord had taken a very unusual course in bring the same subject before the House twice in the course of the same session. Although the motion had been so framed that it did not immediately go against the standing order of the House, yet in substance and in object it was unquestionably the same. This was inconvenient, not as regarded the present question, but as it affected the general business of the House; for if the practice were to become common, the same subjects might be brought forward day after day, and the time thus consumed might obstruct the progress of measures which were of importance to the interest and safety of the country. The former motion had not been rejected solely on the ground that it was desirable the Crown should have at its command such appointments as that at which it was aimed to reward merit. The office had been defended as one that it was desirable to keep up for the protection of the revenue, and the superintendance of the concerns of the post-office. Would it be nothing, that a revenue of 2,000,000 l 304
 Mr. Bankes  thought his right hon. friend must be convinced that the public derived no benefit whatever from the appointment of two individuals to the office of joint-post-master-general. If, indeed, a board was necessary in that department, then there should be an umpire, or third person, to give the casting vote. But here there were only two noblemen, men equal in authority, and, it was to be presumed, in tenacity of opinion; and therefore, instead of being a convenience to the public, they were likely to clog the wheels of every mail-coach which ran through the kingdom, and bring the whole business of the office to a stand still. In a discussion on the navy estimates, a case had been mentioned, where there were two storekeepers employed in one office. They were equal in authority, and had a common key to the desk. One of them fell sick, and the other, who had the use of the key, in his absence robbed the till. He was far from applying this case to the noble postmasters-general, but he did it to show how absurd it was to expect any additional security from having two persons in office. If the amount of the revenue was to be looked to as a reason, then the office of paymaster-general, which was regulated by the bills of 1812 and 1813, was of tenfold importance. This office had been previously held by two persons: but what did parliament do?
 305
 Sir J. Sebright  said, that since he had sat in parliament, he never had heard language which tended so much to degrade the House as had been used on this occasion. He never could consent, that the Crown should enjoy a corrupt influence. The arguments on the other side must have the effect of degrading the higher orders of society; for they induced a belief, that situations were given to men of exalted rank in the state, for the purpose of securing their support to the existing system. Was it not disgusting to be told that great and illustrious names could not be induced to do their duty to their king and country, unless they received 2 or 3,000 l
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he had beard nothing that evening which had in any degree altered the view he had previously taken of the subject. Whether he looked at it in an administrative, a financial, or a constitutional view, his original opinion remained unchanged. The question was, in what course ought this subject to be put, to ensure a just and sound consideration of it? If this point were fairly argued, the hon. member for Corfe-castle would find, that those who opposed him stood on the 'vantage ground. Ought the office to be continued or not? The authority of his hon. friend (and surely he could not object to his own opinion) was in favour of continuing the office. It was true, in the parliament of 1813, he expressed a different opinion; but that opinion was reversed by a subsequent parliament: he participated in the sentiment, and therefore it was fair to infer that his calmer and more matured judgment was in favour of the office. Except that one objection of his hon. friend, which was afterwards removed, the whole stream of parliamentary proceeding was in favour of those who urged the necessity of keeping up the office. His hon. friend stated, that this, amongst other offices, was last year included in the address to the Crown. The question then was, had that address had no effect? It had pro-
 309
 Lord A. Hamilton  wished to ask the hon. gentleman, what length of time one of the postmasters, lord Clancarty, had been absent from the country? He believed he was away about two years; and this was a complete answer to the hon. gentleman's speech.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  observed, that these speculations, by which individuals suffered, were entered into during the suspension of cash payments, but with the knowledge that those restrictions would be at a future period removed.
 Mr. Sumner  said, that though there seemed good ground for supporting the two offices for the sake of the revenue, he fairly owned his reason for formerly having opposed a motion like the present was a different one. He had observed previously to, and during the session, that county meetings had been held professedly to take into consideration the distress of the country, though at very few of them the professed object of the meeting had been gone into; that designing men were traveling over the country to excite disaffection; and that the senti-
 307
 Mr. Bright  contended, that the House was perfectly competent to decide on the subject, and ought not, therefore, to delegate their power to any commission. They were bound to show the people, by a strict performance of their duty, that they really were the guardian of those interests which were committed to their care.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the House of Commons, which, in May, 1811, recorded
 298
 Mr. James Macdonald  congratulated his noble friend on having returned to the charge with a spirit, perseverance and talent which augured well for the public cause. Now that ministers had had leisure for reflection, and an opportunity of col-
 311 quantum mutatus ab illo Hectore!" "Tis neither bad, simpliciter, nor good, But merely as 'tis understood."
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he had, on a former occasion, given his vote on this subject with considerable hesitation. If it had been a simple question, whether the situation of second postmaster-general should be abolished, he would have given up the point. But, when he saw that the House had the day before addressed the Crown to remove two public officers; when he observed that a motion, attacking an entire board, stood for a succeeding day, and when he coupled these circumstances with the tone and temper of the country, which laboured under the delusion that these alterations would afford relief, he considered it hid duty to negative that motion. The Crown to perform its duties properly, must have influence; and the only question was, what portion of influence was necessary for the efficient execution of those duties? He asked for no more than what he conceived to be the due proportion of influence which the Crown ought to possess in the
 308
 Mr. Mansfield  said, he would rather give 10,000 l l
 Mr. Monck  said, that all these distresses were the frightful results of tampering with the circulation; at one time, by artificial means increasing its quantity; and, then, without notice, contracting its issues.
 Mr. Tremayne  said, a pledge had been given, on the passing of the pension bill, to reduce all sinecures—a pledge which he should never consider redeemed, while the two postmasters general remained.
 Mr. R. Martin  condemned the conduct of the opposition, which, he contended, was rather dictated by a desire to annoy the government, than by any consideration of the abstract merits of the question. Even if it could be demonstrated on abstract principles, that one postmaster-general was enough, he would oppose the motion, if it had a tendency to shaker-the present administration.
 Mr. Denison  presented a petition from a Mr. C. A. Thompson. The petitioner stated, that he had, in 1811, laid out in purchases of land 150,000 l l
 Mr. Huskisson  said, his hon. friend had referred to the proceedings on the bill to abolish useless sinecures, but he had left an important blank in the history which it was important to supply. Having for several sessions brought forward the subject and failed, his hon. friend had, in 1817, been fortunate enough to find it favourably entertained by a committee. That committee investigated the matter with great diligence. It was suggested, that the office of joint-postmaster-general came within the denomination of useless sinecures; but the committee, after due
 306
 Mr. Money  defended the office of joint postmaster-general. When he found that, within the last year, 2,000 reports had-been referred to them, on each of which they gave their opinion, he could not think the office without considerable duties and great responsibility. When he like-
 312
 Mr. Wilberforce  agreed with an hon. baronet, that this motion became of far greater importance in consequence of the arguments by which it was resisted. It was alleged, that the office was necessary for the influence of the Crown. What! Preserve offices for the exclusive purpose of influence? What was this but what was called in plainer terms corruption? Avowedly, the ground of continuing the office was to induce members of parliament to support government, right or wrong. He admitted the distinction between accepting office because a person agreed with ministers in their views, and supporting those views because they obtained office; but the public were not always ready to make that distinction. This appeared to him to be a proper time
 310
 Sir F. Blake  would cordially support this motion, and after it should be carried, he would maintain, that a great deal more remained to be done. If the House understood the state of the country, they would pass such motions by acclamations. His real opinion was, that the hon. member for Montrose did as much good as all his majesty's ministers put together. The hon. member had made those see who could not see before; or, if they could see, would not see. Like the weight of a clock, the hon. member had made ministers go better and better by winding them up. He had not heard one single reason for continuing two postmasters. It was said, that the two postmasters must be continued in order to preserve the influence of the Crown. Against whom? Against themselves; and not only against the present, but against every future House of Commons. Was it not preposterous to call upon them to commit suicide on themselves?
 Mr. Cripps  thought the noble marquis had conferred a benefit on the country by adhering to the sinking fund. He admitted, nevertheless, than the plan now proposed militated in a slight degree against it. But it was necessary that some relief in the shape of taxation should be given, and he knew of no better mode of giving it than the present. The whole of the leather-tax, a moiety of the salt-tax, and a large portion of the House and window-tax, would thus be removed. He did not see any of the complication of which the hon. member had spoken, and had no doubt that if the terms were proposed, contractors would be found for the whole before to-morrow night.
 Mr. Whitmore  thought it would be more economical to borrow the money of the sinking fund than of contractors. He had voted for preserving the sinking fund at the beginning of the session, because a great financial project was then before the country—the payment of the 5 per cents; but now that that object had been effected, it became the duty of the House to consider the best means of affording relief to the country. If the contract were made according to the amendment, all complexity would be avoided.
 The Marquiss of Londonderry  reported his Majesty's answer to the Address of yesterday, as follows:
 316 "The king having been attended with the address of the House of Commons of yesterday, acquaints the House that he will give directions that the salary of one of the postmasters-general shall forthwith be discontinued:—His majesty only postpones the abolition of the office of one of the postmasters-general, until he shall have had the opportunity of considering what permanent arrangement may be advisable for the conduct of the business of that department."
 Mr. Bernal  said, he considered the proposition simply as a loan; but was at a loss to understand how the same security could be obtained from the contractors for the performance of the conditions of such a loan as for those of a fixed loan. If no such security could be afforded, in what a situation of loss might the country be placed. Some contingency might render the contract so oppressively burthensome, that the contractors would abandon it. There were contingencies also that might give the contractors an undue advantage.—If a war should occur in the course of four or five years, many of the officers at present on half-pay would immediately be put on full-pay; and that full-pay would be charged on another fund. In that event the terms of the contract would be unduly improved to the benefit of the contractor.
 The chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that on the question of the sinking fund, gentlemen had long been much divided, members on the Opposition benches wishing to take it away altogether, and those on his side preferring to keep it inviolate. That principle of sacredness, to which he considered the faith of parliament to be pledged, and upon the strength of which this country had been enabled to execute such vast achievements in the course of the late war, [Cheers] he hoped that House never would depart from. It was upon this principle that government had just been enabled to perform one of the greatest financial operations that had been of late years attempted, and by which they would be enabled to remit very speedily taxes to the amount of nearly 1,500,000 l l 324
 Mr. Bennet  said, the ground of complaint was, not that taxes to the amount of 1,800,000 l
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the proposition of the hon. member for Montrose was the same as that of ministers, only he wished the contract to be made on the most advantageous terms. Whatever  bonus 318
 Mr. Denis Browne  expressed his surprise that gentlemen opposite should feel averse to any proposition which went to the reduction of taxation; that having been the theme of their speeches during the session.
 Mr. Brougham  said, it now appeared that all sides were for a reduction of taxes, though, at the beginning of the session, reduction was declared to be impossible, on account of the preservation of the sinking fund. It was hardly necessary to congratulate the House, that the chancellor of the exchequer had thus yielded to the necessities of the country, and was willing to relinquish taxation to the extent of 1,800,000 l l l l 319 l l l l l l 320 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 321 l l l l 322 l l l l l l l l 323 l l l
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said, that nothing but a remission of taxation could save the country. As to the sinking fund, as it was now placed, its operation was quite delusive.
 Mr. Jones  approved of the plan, and thought the amendment would, if acted upon, suspend the operation of the sinking fund, and prove disadvantageous to the country. It was said, that to effect this plan, the contractors must get a bonus, the amount of which would be lost to the public. He did not concur in that opinion. The speculators might gain, but it was equally possible they might lose.
 Mr. J. Martin  felt it his duty to oppose the proposition of the chancellor of the exchequer. The bargain would be made upon most disadvantageous terms. The right hon. gentleman was daily in the habit of selling annuities on the lowest terms: while, his present plan went to purchase them at the highest.
 Mr. Hume  said, that to this resolution he should move an amendment. The object of it was to burthen posterity and to relieve ourselves—a direct violation of the principle of the sinking fund. But, besides other objections, the operation was so complex that it was almost unintelligible, and the perplexity spread over a period of 45 years. The project was so novel, and the amount so large, that it would be found very difficult to find contractors. For sixteen years they would not receive a single shilling, and would be paying many millions in advance. It was clear, also, that the public must be losers by the transaction, if private parties entered into the speculation with government; but if the loan (for it was nothing else) were taken by the com-
 317
 Mr. T. Wilson  contended, that at the present moment, whole the 3 per cents were at 78 or 79, ministers could make a more advantageous bargain than at a subsequent period when they might be lower. Besides, they would thus avoid the contingencies of war. It was just as proper now to support the sinking fund, as in the beginning of the session; because the period might not be far distant, and he hoped it was not, when ministers would be prepared to pay off the 4 per cents. The present amendment was an attack upon the sinking fund by a side wind. Though relief from taxation was very desirable, it was even more desirable to keep faith with the public creditor. If that faith were not kept, the agricultural interest might suffer even more severely than they did at the present moment.
 Mr. Calvert  believed, that the right hon. gentleman was satisfied with but competition existing in the country, but not with the degree in which it existed in the large towns. He (Mr. C.) thought the reverse was the fact. In many parts of the country he knew that brewers commanded an entire monopoly in their own neighbourhood, shutting out competition entirely. He had himself frequently communicated with magistrates upon the subject, and had suggested that such extensive influence ought to be restrained. If he were one of the magistrates, he should feel it his duty to see that a competition really did take place. The licensing system was open to many abuses, and he would lend any assistance in his power to remedy them.
 Sir J. Sebright  said, that the licensing system, as it existed, produced the worst effects, not only on the public-houses themselves, but on the morals of those who frequented them.
 Mr. Bennet  felt himself bound to acknowledge, that he received the most liberal assistance, in 1819, from Mr. Buxton. In performing this act of justice to his hon. friend, he should take the opportunity to state, that he fully agreed with him as to the effects of competition. At the same time, he must express his belief, founded upon evidence, that a great part of the metropolis was portioned out among the brewers, and that brewer applying for a licence in it destroyed every thing like fair competition. Indeed, it appeared, that when a brewer and another party applied for license, the brewer obtained it from his rival, on the ground of being a known and responsible person. With regard to the introduction of a clause into any future act, prohibiting brewers from purchasing public-houses, he deemed it to be totally impracticable; inasmuch as public-houses might still be purchased for them on trust. The point principally to be attended to in London, was the prevention of disorder in the different houses and the placing them under some specific control. With regard to the country, he must say that there was scarcely a free house in any village. They were all in the power of the brewers, who drenched their
 333
 Mr. Calvert  trusted that his hon. friend would do the same justice to him as he had done to the hon. member for Weymouth.
 Mr. Bennet  had great pleasure in stating, that nobody had been more anxious to correct the abuses of the licensing system than the hon. member.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  rose to call the attention of the committee to his first resolution. He should do injustice to the agricultural committee, and injustice to his own opinions, if he did not desire it in the outset to be understood that he was not prepared to justify the proposition upon general principles: it was only to be tolerated as an exception to them, and employed as a temporary law. It would, he conceived, be nothing but pedantry, to say that no case had arisen, or could arise, in which they might not be relaxed. The hon. member for Taunton (Mr. Baring), in a former session,
 357 358 359 s
 Mr. Whitmore  said he had obliged to thresh out his corn immediately, and carry it to market to prevent it from mouldering on his hands; and this had been the case with most of the farmers in his neighbourhood. The corn of the last year would be perfectly unsaleable after the next harvest, and the measure would consequently be wholly inoperative.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  thought the proposition would be a violation of sound principle, without any corresponding benefit. None but bad corn would be warehoused, if it were adopted.
 Mr. Cripps  could not look forward with satisfaction to the operation of this plan. The little farmer had, in a great measure, got rid of his property; and, therefore, with respect to him, it was too late. The damaged corn could not be dried, and kept in warehouses without great loss in weight and in other respects. He was quite persuaded that they could not get one without a fixed and permanent protection.
 Mr. Wodehouse  did not think he should act right if he were to leave the noble lord in the lurch; although he regretted that a measure less exceptionable in its principle had not been brought forward. This measure, however, came a little too late, and was accompanied with so much doubt and hesitation, that many would be prevented from adopting it.
 Mr. Bankes  said, he bad been of opinion that government should directly interfere and expend one million in purchasing corn. The present measure was a modification of that plan, but much less efficacious. As a general principle he was ready to allow the impropriety of such interference; but in circumstances of particular exigency, relief should be given according to the nature of the exigency.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, his hon. friend the member for Norfolk had been so good as to say that he would not leave him in the lurch. His hon. friend should rather take care that he did not
 364
 Sir J. Sebright  said, he had had conversations with various farmers on this subject, and they all declared that the plan was of no value whatever. Legislative interference with the corn trade must, he was convinced, be productive of harm.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that after the discussion which had taken place, and seeing that the resolution was not supported by those who brought it forward, he would with the leave of the House withdraw it.
 Mr. Ellice  assured the House and the noble lord, that after what passed on this subject on a former evening, he would not have interrupted the course of these proceedings, if he did not feel himself called upon, after the most mature consideration of the various resolutions on the table, to take the opportunity of protesting against them all, by now opposing the motion for the Speaker leaving the chair. He certainly would have abstained from this opposition, if he conceived there was the slightest chance of any amendment, or modification of the propositions in the committee, according to the prevailing opinions, or he would rather say prejudices on this important subject; but as no improvement was likely to result from them, in the present system of the corn laws, the wisest course, appeared, to him, not to touch that which it was not intended, to improve, and which there was in some quarters a pretty obvious disposition to render more injurious to the public interest. The noble marquis proposed to debate first in the committee, his resolution relative to the advance of a million on bonded grain, protesting against going into the general discussion; but this opened the leading points in the general question, and those to which evidently the greatest importance was ascribed by ministers and the committee—the effect of the proposed advance from the Bank on the currency, and the price of grain. It was not now disguised, the sole object sought to be obtained was, a forced advance in the value of agricultural produce. On the appointment of the select committee he had stated his apprehensions, that all other considerations would be neglected. When he found his apprehensions realized, on their report he ventured to recommend to the House the greatest caution, before they embarked in the senseless and desperate expedients proposed in it. After having listened with the utmost attention to all that had fallen from the noble lord on the former evening, and the different gentlemen who had spoken in the course of this debate, his conviction, if possible, was confirmed, that no possible good could arise to the agricultural petitioners, and infinite mischief might be inflicted on many other interests, by the adoption of the measures before them. His duty, therefore, compelled him to attempt, at least, to arrest the course taken by ministers, by opposing this further progress of the committee.
 335 s 336 s.: s s s s s s s 337 s s s s s s d s d s s s d 338 s s s d s s.: d s s d s s s 339 s s s l s s s s 340 341 l s d 342 dictum d 343 344 345 346 s 347 348 s s 349 s 350 351
 Mr. Brougham  said, he would be the last man who would be slow to interfere for the relief of agriculture at the expense of principle. Least of all would he be slow to interfere thus in their case, when be well knew that general principles had not been attended to with respect to the other classes. He alluded to times when the mercantile, the colonial, and the manufacturing interests, had been suffering, and the House had interfered for their relief. Though there was this material difference, that in those cases there had been no deposit. It was clear the measure could only tend to raise the price, or keep it up when raised. Now, the persons who had the most need of relief were not those who had grain to sell, and who could take advantage of the high prices: they were those whom distress had already forced to sell all their produce for the payment of their rents; and, as they would have to come into the market, to purchase produce for the maintenance of themselves and their labourers, that would add to their distress. He would ask one question. How was the corn to be protected in the depots? Could that be done without expense. The farmers were called upon to give their property for the money which was to be advanced to them; but the fact was, that they would soon have no property to give, and thus, for the repayment of the loan, they would be exposed to a hardship far more severe than any which they now felt—an extent in aid—the only misery from which they were now free. For these considerations, as well as for others which had been stated, he would oppose the measure as mischievous, as at best ineffective in its result, and painful in its consequences.
 Mr. Benett,  of Wiltshire, said, that as he had originated one of those propositions * s d s * 1—"That it is expedient to provide, that the foreign corn now under bond in the United Kingdom may be taken out for home consumption, whenever the average price of wheat, ascertained in the usual mode, shall exceed 80 s 
 
 Wheat 24 s 
 Rye, pease, and beans 16 s 
 Barley, bear, and bigg 12 s 
 Oats 8 s 2d.—"That a drawback or bounty be allowed on the exportation of corn to foreign countries: 
 
 On wheat of a marketable quality 18 s 
 Rye, pease, and beans, quality 12 s 
 Barley; bear or bigg quality 9 s 
 Oats, quality 6 s "And that such drawback or bounty, in like manner as the importation duty, be fixed." 352 d 353 l l l 354 s s d l s d l s d s d s d l s.: l s l s d s d s d 355 s d s l l l l 356
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  perfectly concurred in the opinion of the right hon. gentleman, that if the allegations in the petition were well-founded, a case of grievance was made out, to which parliament ought to apply a remedy. He felt himself much obliged to the right hon. gentleman for having given him an opportunity of seeing the petition before he presented it to the House, as it had enabled him to inquire into the subject; and he could now positively declare, that all the substantial allegations of the petition were not borne out by the fact. The petitioner said, that in 1817 he had taken a piece of land for building. In the same year he made his first application to the magistrates for a license. Under those circumstances, the magistrates might probably have thought such an application premature. The following year the petitioner made a second application; but it was refused, because the greater part of the houses which he had built were untenanted. In the following year it seemed, the magistrates had licensed the house. Now, as the petitioner complained that the house had not been licensed during the first two years, he certainly could not complain of
 330 331 332
 Mr. Curwen  felt that there were great objections to the measure in point of principle, but he did not see why it might not be adopted as a permanent means of relief in times of distress, as he conceived that much advantage might result from it. A time could scarcely arrive when the demand and the supply would be equal; and in years of abundance the scheme would hold out an important inducement to speculators in grain. It was quite idle to hope, that a time would arrive when there could be an export trade in grain, the growth of this country. As a measure of relief the proposed plan could do no possible harm, and might be productive of some good. It had been stated, that all these measures were intended to benefit one part of the community at the expense of others. Now, he would ask what could be done to assist the grower of corn that would not be useful to all classes of the community? These measures were not intended for any particular class. The effect of them would be, to induce the cultivator of the soil to sow a sufficient quantity of corn for the use of the population, which was by far the cheapest mode of subsisting the country. The production of corn ought to be viewed with reference to the real wants of the country. If they did not proceed on a system of protection, they would destroy their own agriculture; and then the country would be at the mercy of a few interested merchants. The great object of parliament ought to be, to render the country independent of foreign corn, and at the same time to afford the consumer an opportunity of purchasing it at a cheap rate. He would always support the principle, that they ought to rely on their own produce for consumption, instead of depending on foreign states for the necessary
 360 l l
 Mr. Irving  said, that the reluctance and diffidence he always felt in addressing the House, was his reason for not having before avowed, that he was the originator of the measure, and offered such reasons as he had given for this measure in the committee above stairs. He still continued to think it was calculated to be useful, although it had been ridiculed so severely by his hon. and learned friend. He had not proposed this measure in ignorance of the true principles of political economy. It was one of many expedients; and he had supported it as the least exceptionable. He was not more responsible for it than the committee. It was the measure of the committee, not his. He thought the scheme could be carried into effect without danger; and it was the duty of the House to adopt measure which had the least tendency to relieve a class at once so important and so distressed as the agriculturists.
 Mr. Monck  was an advocate for having the trade in beer more open, at the same time, he would not deprive the brewers of any of their existing rights and interests. He thought that the magistrates ought to be deprived of a great portion of the discretionary power which they exercised at present in the licensing of public houses, inasmuch as it was in consequence of that discretionary power that so many people were obliged to drink bad beer, and at the same lime to pay a most extravagant price for it. He had that morning received a letter from a physician at Bath, whom he had known for 30 years, in which that gentleman imputed most of the diseases prevalent there, and especially the colic, to the bad beer drunk there. He was glad to find that the licensing system had attracted the attention of the hon. member for Shrewsbury; and still more glad to find that the House generally seemed, to be of opinion that it stood in need of amendment and alteration.
 Mr. Monck  contended, that the distresses of the country were mainly imputable, not to low prices but to high taxes. None of the recipes of the five or six state physicians made, therefore, an approximation to the true remedy. Every corn bill was intended to benefit the agriculturists at the expense of the other classes; and instead of looking at the present low price of grain with dismay, it afforded him sincere satisfaction, because it would compel country gentlemen to do their duty to their constituents. The existing corn bill gave a complete monopoly. What were called its defects did not injure the farmers, and were a great benefit to the consumers. Dr. Paley had considered the uncertainty of crops and seasons as a providential ordinance, because it prevented the landowner from extracting the last farthing from his tenant. He (Mr. M.) was, however, decidedly of opinion that there were no bad seasons: one county or one country might produce less than another, but the gross produce of the world was always the same, and a perfectly free trade in grain ought therefore to be established.
 Mr. Leycester  said, there never was a more zealous friend to the agricultural interest than he was. He commiserated their distress, but he was quite convinced that it would not be alleviated by the plan of the noble lord. The measure was contrary to all legislative rule. Was it not most unjustifiable to expend the public money, for the purpose of raising the price of bread against that very public from whom the money was taken? Was it not most unjustifiable to raise the price of bread against those manufacturers, whose chins were merely kept above water by the existing low prices? The principle of the measure was most flagitious; and he did not think that the badness of the principle was redeemed by
 361
 Mr. S. Whitbread  defied any man to say, that the firm with which he was connected had ever used any improper means to obtain licenses. He could assure the House, they would willingly consent to any prospective measure that would tend to keep the trade open. He thought that any act of parliament would be advantageous to the public which should prevent brewers from holding the licences of public houses.
 Mr. T. Wilson  considered this the only practical measure which had been recommended by the committee. It was asked, what advantage could be proposed by advancing prices? The answer was—they would encourage farmers to keep in cultivation lands which would otherwise be thrown out of cultivation. The merchants had received advances in consequence of their goods lying by them. What danger was there in making similar advances to farmers? He was astonished to hear it said, that it was too late now, for that one half the benefit of it was lost. In God's name, was not the other half worth saving? We had now had a series of good harvests, and it was not unnatural to suppose that a bad harvest was not far distant. Therefore, they ought to accept this, the best measure the committee had offered to them. It was desirable to have cheap bread; yet they must not, for the
 365
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he would state the grounds on which he objected to this resolution. Looking to this as a temporary measure, his objection to it was, the time to which it was to be applied. His noble friend had stated that, since the last harvest, corn had been brought into the market to nearly double the quantity which had ordinarily been introduced at antecedent periods of similar extent. The reason his noble friend gave for this was, that the farmers were called on to pay their rents; and, from the difficulties which pressed on the landlords, the occupiers of land, in order to meet their demands, were compelled to thresh out their corn, and to send it to market at an earlier period of the year than usual. Now, if this reason were well founded, it followed, that many of the farmers were no longer in the market as sellers of this commodity, but as purchasers for their own support, and for the maintenance of the poor in the parishes to which they belonged. The consequence then must be, if this measure had the effect of taking out of the market any considerable quantity of corn, and thereby of raising the price, that it would bear hard on the lower class of farmers, and render the maintenance of the poor more onerous. He believed, if any practical man asked who were the most distressed? the answer would be, "look at their stack-yards." The yards of the wealthy farmers were well stored, while those of the lower class were emptied. How, then, could they be relieved by this measure? This plan did not accord with the general principles which governed the subject. The fact was, they were in an artificial state, which required frequent revision. With respect to the general principle, if there was any one article on which go-
 362 s s d s d s
 Mr.
 328  presented a petition, which, if the party subscribing it had taken his advice, would, he said, have been committed into other hands, but which, as the petitioner pressed it, he thought it his duty to present it to the House. It was stated in the petition, that the petitioner, Robert Churchward, a builder, undertook some years ago, to build about four or five hundred houses in the county of Middlesex, in the neighbourhood of Mile-end, near the Commercial-road: that after having built about one hundred or rather more, the inhabitants of this newly created town remonstrated against the inconvenience which they sustained from not having any public house in the neighbourhood. In consequence the petitioner built a house expressly constructed for a public house, at the expense of 1,500 l l 329 l l l
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought, that the agricultural interest, were much indebted to ministers, and especially to the noble marquis. He appealed to the agricultural committee, and asked them, what situation they would find themselves in, if in this instance their recommendation and plan of relief should be thrown overboard. In justice to his constituents, himself, and the noble lord, he felt himself called upon to support the resolution.
 Sir J. Shelley  thought the measure would not only not be beneficial, but that it was calculated to do a great deal of injury.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  allowed that the subject was one of great importance. It had for some time been under the consideration of the board of trade, who were endeavouring to frame a law to regulate the fees of all the consular establishments. Although the consular system was in his (lord L.'s) department, yet it was always administered under the advice and recommendation of the board of trade. It was certainly highly desirable to arrive at some equalization of the fees, or rather, that the individuals in question should be paid by salary, and not by fees. The theory was excellent, but the practice was difficult; for to carry the theory into practice, it would be necessary very much to enlarge the present allowance for salaries, which was only 30,000 l 370
 Mr. Robinson  could assure the hon. member that he had never encountered greater difficulties in the investigation and arrangement of any subject, than in those of consular fees. They were at present levied by an authority, against which he certainly felt much disposed to protest. Conceiving it necessary that some more general and equal system should be adopted, be, with his noble friend, had gone through the various establishments with a view to ascertain how far it would be practicable to diminish the fees, and to substitute such moderate and properly apportioned salaries as would afford a sufficient remuneration. This, however, was a very difficult matter; as it became extremely difficult to ascertain the exact amount of duty performed and expense incurred by each individual. He (Mr. Robinson) trusted, however, that some arrangement might yet be made of a satisfactory nature, without any additional burthen on the country. Part of the expenses of the consuls was paid out of the civil list. The question was, how the
 371
 Mr. Attwood  rose and said, that, entertaining the opinions he did respecting the utter inefficacy, as to any advantage to the petitioners, from the resolutions intended to be moved in the committee, and more particularly in consequence of what they had witnessed the preceding night, he thought it his duty to call their attention to a consideration of the general subject before them, and of the whole system of measures which they had pursued on that subject. The House, he said, had then before it, bodies of petitioners more numerous and important, and a statement of distress more urgent than had been at any former period brought under their consideration; and the complaints oldie petitioners were marked with a general and an increasing spirit of discontent and dissatisfaction, arising out of the manner in which their representations had been disposed of by the House. Undoubtedly, the whole of the measures they had adopted on this subject had been founded on a settled conviction previously entertained that the distress complained of was out of their power to relieve; but whilst the House acted on a conviction like that, it was essential, not only that they should ha themselves well satisfied of its justice, but that their measures should, if it were possible, satisfy the petitioners themselves, that the evils they suffered were out of the reach of parliamentary interference; and the House ought, in his opinion, to be cautious that it did not add to the other calamities of the present times, that of causing to be withdrawn the confidence of the people from parliament under the present circumstances in which they were placed. He would request them to review for a moment before they proceeded further, what their measures hitherto had been. They had delegated their duties to three successive committees, the proceedings of which committees had produced no other effect than this, that they
 372 373 374 375 376 377 378 379 380 381 382 s d s d d s s s 383 384 385 386 s s s s.? 387 388 l l 389 s d s s 390 s s s s s 391 s s s s s s s 392
 Mr. Attwood,  in explanation, observed, that he had fallen into no mistake respecting the price of corn in the former part of the last century. He was perfectly aware of the fall which then took place, and he would remind the hon. member, that Adam Smith had ascribed it to an alteration in the value of money. He was aware also that, about the middle of the century, corn had recovered from that depression, from whatever cause, and had reached its former price, but had never exceeded it till the French war. If the hon. member would refer to the price for 20 years before the war, he would find no advance whatever in that time, and it was a period when much additional land was brought into cultivation, when importation above exportation was insignificant, and when population was rapidly increasing.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that no individual listened with more satisfaction than he did to displays of talent, coming from any part of the House, on any question connected with the great interests of the country, but he must say, that if they did not confine themselves to some one practical view of the question before them, they would sacrifice the interests of the country. The hon. member (Mr. Attwood), whom he should have listened to with great pleasure on a more suitable occasion, had entered into the wide field of the bullion question, and he had naturally brought forward the hon. member for Portarlington, as the gladiator on the other side of the question. He humbly suggested to the hon. member; that if be was disposed to consider the effect of taxation on the country, he might have taken the occasion when the proposition was, to take off some of the taxes; and that if he chose to consider the state of the currency in its largest sense, he might have taken the opportu-
 397 s s 398 s s s s s s s s s. s s s s s s s s s s s s 399 s s s s s s s s s s s s 400 s s s s s s s s s s 401 s s s s s s s s 402
 Sir T. Lethbridge  began by returning his thanks to the hon. member for Callington (Mr. Attwood) for one of the most able speeches he had ever heard in that House—a speech which would carry conviction to the heart of every man in the country. He agreed with that hon. member, that it was the duty of the House to legislate with a view to the benefit of the whole community, and he admitted, that he must be mistaken in the grounds on which he supported his present opinions, if they were opposed to that principle. The distinguishing feature in his proposition was, that it imposed a protecting duty on all agricultural produce. He was aware of the delicacy of legislating upon the food of man. In this commercial and manufacturing country this was always a delicate subject of legislation. But, if ever there was a period when it was incumbent on the House to look firmly at the question, this was that time. It was said, that a duty of 35 s s s s s d 403 d s s 404 "That it is expedient, for the protection of the agriculture of the united kingdom against foreign competition, that the following rate of duties shall be payable, and paid, on the import of any productions of foreign countries similar to those of our own, soil; and that, subject to such rates and duties, the import of all such productions shall, whenever the ports shall open under the present law, thereafter remain free for the import of all such productions, viz.:— 
 
 Wheat 40 s Hemp 15 s 
 Meal 10 s Hides 2d. lb. 
 Flour 14 s Tallow 20 s 
 Rye 26 s d Seeds 28 s 
 Oats 13 s d Butter 56 s 
 Pease 26 s d Cheese 37 s d 
 Beans 26 s d Poultry, 33 l ad valorem 
 Barley, Bear or Bigg 20 s Apples 5 s 
 Wool 1 s Pears 7 s 
 Flax 20 s l ad valorem."
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he felt no inclination to agree to any of the propositions which had been submitted to the House. With regard to the proposition of the hon. baronet for imposing an import duty on the various articles of our produce, for the sake of keeping up the prices, it was, in his opinion, a matter of minor importance, if not of total indifference. The hon. baronet appeared to complain, very unnecessarily, of an attempt to put him down; seeing that his opinions, whether they were right or wrong, had been listened to with attention by the House. There was one point in which he agreed with the hon. baronet, namely, the utter futility of all the projects and resolutions which had been proposed to the House. The view which the hon. baronet had taken of this subject, such as it was, was at least clear and intelligible. Its object was, that such a duty should be imposed as would pre-
 405 s 406 407 408 l l l 409 410 l 411 412 413 habes confitentem reum; Lusisti satis, edisti satis, atque bibisti; Tempus abire tibi est.—— 414
 Mr. Robinson  began by stating, that the party invective in which the hon. baronet had indulged, seemed to him ill placed on a debate of this nature. If a specific motion were brought forward involving the conduct of ministers, be should feel no difficulty to meet and answer it. Even if he were to admit the propositions of the hon. baronet, that the present distresses were occasioned by taxation and the late change in the currency, and that the only remedy for them was the reduction of taxation on one hand, and on the other the abrogation of the law which compelled cash payments, yet, as it was not contended that any immediate benefit could result from either of those measures, whatever their remedial effect might ultimately be, he could see no: reason why, on the present occasion, the. House should not take into consideration, the mode in which acknowledged defects in the existing laws relative to the trade in corn could most conveniently be removed. He had always taken this view of the question—that an alteration in the corn laws, either in the shape proposed by his right hon. friend, or the hon. members for Somersetshire and for Wiltshire,, could not operate any immediate relief. The immediate pressure upon the agricultural interest arose, it must be admitted, from extreme depression of price, which, was partly occasioned by superabundant production. The hon. baronet had ridiculed this argument which had been urged, by his noble friend; but he, thought he must have done so from misunderstanding its nature. Nobody had ever said that abundance generally was an evil; but, on the other hand, nobody who thought upon the subject at all could deny, that if the quantity of any article produced, exceeded the demand for it, so that the price in the market fell below the cost of its production, the producer must suffer from that circumstance. He had never contended
 415 416
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he rose, impressed with great admiration for the speech which the House had just heard. He thought the hon. gentleman had shown a very considerable degree of talent, much research, and great knowledge of the subject upon which he had spoken. [Hear.] Notwithstanding these circumstances, he could not help thinking, that the hon. gentleman had committed a great many errors. The hon. gentleman had spoken of him (Mr. Ricardo) as if he had always been a favourer of a paper circulation [cries of "No, no"]—as if, in fact, he had not been one of the first to point out the evils of a currency, in the estimation of which the House could have no guide, and which was at all times liable to be increased or diminished, as it might suit the convenience or the pleasure of the Bank. The hon. gentleman appeared to have founded the whole of his speech upon a passage in a pamphlet that he (Mr. Ricardo) had written, respecting what were called "remunerating prices." To the test of the doctrine and reasoning of that pamphlet, he should be very willing to trust the whole of the argument in this case. It could make no difference to the farmer how he obtained those remunerating prices, provided he got them; although it was very true (as had been asserted by the hon. gentleman), that in order to obtain such prices, he must be content to be paid in money or value of very different descriptions. But the important fact was, that it was' impossible a man could long go on, producing any one particular commodity, unless he could obtain for it a remunerating price.—The hon. gentleman had spoken as if he (Mr. Ricardo) were alone responsible for the alteration which
 393 394 395 s s 396
 Mr. Ricardo,  being of opinion that the sufferings of the agriculturists were in a great degree owing to the corn laws, considered the present a fit opportunity for saying a few words upon that subject. Even if he were fully to agree with gentlemen who ascribed the present distresses to the change in the value of the currency and the weight of taxation, still he thought those gentlemen must admit that the corn laws, considered abstractedly without any reference to those two questions, were calculated to produce great evils. One of the principal of these evils was, the unnaturally high price of corn in this country over all other countries. The hon. baronet had admitted, that superabundance would occasion a great fall in the value of corn as well as all other articles. And here he must observe, that there appeared to be a little inconsistency in the arguments of the hon. baronet. In one part of his speech the hon. baronet admitted that a superabundant production of corn would occasion mischief to the extent in which it was at present experienced. [Sir. F. Burdett dissented.] The hon. baronet now said he did not admit this; but he certainly understood him to do so, and to apply the argument to the change in the value of the currency; for he said that those who contended, that the increase of an article beyond a certain limit, would occasion a fall in price greater in proportion than the increase which had taken place, must admit that an alteration in the value of the currency will produce a change in the value of commodities, greater in proportion than the alteration in the value of money. Although he (Mr. R.) was of opinion, that a superabundant supply of an article produced a sinking in the value of the article greater than in proportion to the additional quantity, yet he did not apply this argument to money. He would put a case to the House, to show how a superabundant supply of an article would produce a sinking of its aggregate value much greater than in proportion to the surplus supply. He would suppose, that in a particular country a very rare
 418 l 419 s s s s s s s s s 420 s s s s s s s s l s s l s s s s s s 421 s s l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that during the last session the House had made an order for a return of the number of advertisements from the different public offices inserted in the English newspapers. That return had not yet been made. It appeared, that some of the papers published in London greatly exceeded their contemporaries in circulation. Now, it was evident, that if the intention of government in inserting advertisements in the newspapers was to give publicity to them, that object would be best effected by sending them to those papers which had the most extensive circulation.  "The Times" "The Times"
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for certain returns respecting the fees of British consuls abroad. It would be admitted, that the officers appointed to superintend our commerce and protect our commercial interests abroad, should be men acquainted with our commercial relations—men a experience, diligence and activity; and that is should be a duty with the government at home to make such regulations as would prevent the support of the consuls from becoming a vexatious burthen to the trade of the country. It was, however, curious to observe, that, though the greatest commer-
 367 l l l s d l s d l s d l s d l s d l s 368 l l l l 369
 Sir J. Newport  was of opinion, that it
 417
 Mr. Western  agreed, that the most effectual relief for the distresses of agriculture would be found in a reduction of taxes, and his hon. friend's motion should therefore have his decided approbation. But he was equally anxious to press upon their consideration, a repeal of that act (Mr. Peel's bill) which had increased that distress beyond any thing contemplated at the time by the promoters of the measure. Until they had fully grappled with that bill, it would be in vain to seek any remedy. To discuss any scale of prices or measure of duty, without looking steadily at that bill, was to place the subordinate before the primary consideration. To talk of price until they had ascertained the measure of value they had to give, was quite delusive. The price they had first to settle, was the price of money [Hear, hear], and that would regulate all the other measures. Did the House think the industry of the country could bear this oppressive accumulation arising out of the act of 1819? The noble marquis had said, that the price of Dantsic wheat was 45 s s s s 430
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the hon. member had objected much to the bill in 1819. Now, as it was the intention of the hon. member to bring that measure separately under the consideration of the House, he should feel it at unnecessary to say any thing further upon it at that moment. The question involved so many important considerations that it might not to be mixed up with the agricultural question. It was obvious that any alteration in the existing standard must go to alter all the contracts that had been entered into since 1819; and the consequent mischief must be evident to every one. If it was correct that under such an accumulation of burthens and privations, the taxation which bore upon the agricultural interest, had increased in the ration of 40 l
 Mr. Philips  said, that because the motion went to recommend a reduction of taxes, he would give it his support. The ground upon which he had felt, at the close of his hon. friend's speech, that he could not vote for his motion was, that he had supposed him (Mr. W.) to have insisted upon such a reduction of taxation as could not be effected without defrauding the public creditor. As his hon. friend appeared to disclaim these intentions, he would support his motion. An hon. friend had recommended a return to a depreciated paper currency. Now, the country having most wisely adopted a metallic currency, it would be worse than inexpedient to go back to one of paper. The present agricultural distress arose from the charges which now fell on the farmer which be had not formerly to sustain. These made the prices which would formerly remunerate him insufficient. His tithes had increased—wages had increased—poor-rates had increased—and his taxation had enormously increased. Tithes and wages had in some measure settled themselves; and poor-rates had been reduced in something like a proportion to the diminished price of provisions. To him, therefore, it appeared, that the only way which the agricultural interest, could be relieved by parliament, was, by the remission of taxes. The circumstances of the country were such, that the public expenditure must be reduced. That House ought not to rest satisfied with voting against the continuance of two lords of the admiralty, or with doing, away one of the post-masters-general. They ought to carry retrenchment and economy into every department.
 Mr. K. Douglas  said, that diminution of taxation, though good in itself; would, if carried to too great an extent, prove very injurious. He disapproved of a motion which sought the attainment of a particular object by a side wind.
 Mr. Denis Brown  rejoiced in the motion having been made, as it would, afford the House an opportunity of proving in what light it beheld a proposition which would go to prevent the dividends from being paid, and lead to a revolution.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  wished the House to bear in mind the general principle for which the hon. mover was disposed to contend, namely, a remission of taxes to the amount of 20,000,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was generally understood that those who voted for a motion acquiesced in the arguments by which it was supported—[Cries of "No, no!"]. Those who did not do so would do well to avow their motives; and he was glad that so many had done so, to avoid being thought favourable to a proposition which was revolutionary in its tendency.
 Mr. Cripps  said, that amongst the number of plans which had been submitted to their consideration, it was impossible to find one that could be wholly approved of. They were, therefore, called on to decide which of these six evils—for he believed there were six sets of resolutions—was the least. Much had been said about the good effects which would be produced by a remission of taxation. Now, a reduction of 8 s s 441
 Mr. Bankes  said, that the hon. baronet (sir T. Lethbridge) thought the present period peculiarly favourable for legislating on the corn laws; because the price of corn being very low, there was no danger of any person opposing the agricultural interest. But, he requested those who entertained this opinion to read the resolution of the committee of last year, and say, what there was in the present system of the country which should induce the House to form a different opinion from that which they then entertained? The House had received a specific recommendation from that committee not to legislate at all upon the subject. The only circumstance that could induce him to legislate, would be, if there was any prospect of the price of wheat reaching 80 s s 442 s l s d 443 444
 Sir T. Lethbridge  repeated, that a protecting duty of less than 24 s 448
 Sir W. W. Wynn  expressed himself in favour of protecting duties, because without them he conceived, if the ports should open at 80 s
 Mr. Griffiths  wished to know whether, according to the popular doctrine of superabundance of corn, there was likewise a superabundance of all other articles of agricultural produce; seeing that live stock had fallen in price proportionably to grain. If there was not likewise superabundance of these latter—a proposition
 449 l
 The Marquis of Londonderry  agreed with the hon. and learned gentleman that the measures which had been proposed to the House, were calculated rather to protect the country against future danger, than to afford it immediate relief. He could not, however, agree that the reduction of taxes would benefit the farmer; because, although such a measure would be advantageous to him, in his character of consumer, it would be detrimental to him, in his character of grower of corn, by depressing the price of his produce. He regretted the observations that had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman on the subject of the currency. The hon. and learned gentleman admitted all the evils that would result from any change in the decision which parliament
 453
 Mr. Powlett  supported the motion, but wished to qualify his vote as to the amount of taxes which it was practicable to reduce.
 Mr. Tierney  said, he was quite as much averse to revolution as the hon. gentleman. The motion did no more than establish a principle; and he could have no objection to it, unless it had the effect
 435
 Mr. Bright  thought, that a great reduction of taxes was necessary, might be made, and would afford very considerable relief.
 Mr. Brougham  would support the motion, not because it had a tendency to prevent the House from going into a committee, but because the motion put in issue a principle of great importance.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the question before the committee was, whether any and what changes ought to be made in the existing corn law? Now, among all the various opinions delivered to the House, he had heard but one in favour of the law as it stood. All who had spoken thought that nothing could be more injurious in its consequences than the act in force. The two objections to it were, that it prohibited importation till a certain price was attained and then permitted unlimitted supply, and that it likewise embraced the system of averages. The question was, did any of the propositions before them get quit of these objections, and what ought to be substituted in the place of regulations so condemned? The noble lord's plan was liable to both objections; for it fixed an importation price, and required the striking of averages. The right hon. gentleman's plan was open only to one. He fixed no importation price, allowing the trade to be free on paying duties; but he established averages. His hon. friend, the member for Portarlington had proposed a plan which was liable to neither of those objections. He proposed, that as soon as the price of corn should reach 70 s s s s 450 s s s s s 451 l ultimum remedium 452
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that he could not vote for the motion of the hon. gentleman In the present situation of the frances of the country, it was obviously impossible that the taxation could be
 428 s 429 could
 Mr. Brogden,  the chairman, suggested, that it would tend to simplify the proceedings of the committee, if the several propositions were submitted to them  seriatim
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, addressed the committee. He said, that the act which had restored cash payments had virtually added 35 per cent to the taxes and to the private debts of individuals. He thought it would yet be necessary for them to retrace their steps, or the country could never recover from its present depression. It was said, that the present corn bill had given the agriculturists a monopoly; but he could never discover that it had benefitted the landed interest. It, indeed, prevented the importation of grain for a time, till the price rose to 80 s s 437 l s s d l s s s s l s s s l s d s s d 438 s s 439 440
 Mr. Benett , of Wilts, did not concur with the hon. mover in any thing but the vote he should give. As the greatest relief might be afforded by lessening the weight of taxation, he was, almost against his will, compelled to support the amendment.
 Mr. Curwen  would vote for the motion, because it called for a remission of taxes. He feared the period was not very remote, when the only means that would remain for saving the agricultural interest would, be, to call on the monied interest to bear a part of the burthen. He should, therefore, infinitely regret that any remedy should have been omitted to be applied for the purpose of averting such a calamity.
 Mr. Irving  said, he would support the resolution, as he was not disposed to leave the noble lord in the lurch. But he left it to the noble lord to prove his consistency, by distinguishing between the principle of the resolution which he had called on him (Mr. I.) to acknowledge, and that which he had himself submitted. The only difference between them was, that the resolution of the noble lord was inadequate, and ought never to be resorted to at all, while the other would have relieved the existing pressure of distress. If his resolution had been absurd, he was not chargeable with its absurdity, but the committee. He did not think it was absurd, and would submit it again. Though it might be in opposition to the principles of political economy, yet it was justified by the circumstances of the times. He did not approve of any of the plans proposed, but he thought that of the noble marquis the least objectionable, and would give it his support.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that a reduction of taxes would, in his opinion, be tantamount to a breach of national faith; for with such a reduction, it would be impossible to pay the interest of the national debt. No one of the 500 petitions from the agricultural classes went the length of this motion of the hon. member. He had heard the distress ascribed to a superabundant produce; but of this he was not satisfied. The notion appeared to owe its origin to the early sales of corn at low prices; but if he were to see in a pawnbroker's shop an unusual quantity of wearing apparel, he should not therefore believe that there was a superabundance of that article, though, assuredly, he should believe that the consumers were distressed. But, whatever was the cause of the distress, he conceived the proposition of the hon. member for Portarlington was altogether unsound. It would have the effect of throwing much of the poor land out of cultivation; a measure so destructive to those interested in it, that had he not known the amiable disposition of that hon. member, he should be disposed to question his motives. The persons engaged in the cultivation of these lands could not successfully look for employment in any other direction, as the manufactures were already overstocked. The
 425 s s s s s s s s s s s s 426
 Mr. Monck  said, that the only mode of relieving the present agricultural distress, was by an immediate repeal of taxes to a very considerable amount. He had heard much respecting low prices; yet even under these low prices, bread was 100 per cent dearer in England than it was in France. In 1792, and for the nine years previous, the price of wheat was 44 s s s l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. John Williams  addressed the House for the first time. He said, that if he thought that in now presenting himself to the notice of the chair, he was at all interfering with, or delaying the consideration of, the relief to be extended for those distresses which the House was called upon to remedy, he should think himself without excuse. But, it was only because he believed that his duty obliged him to assign his reasons for supporting the motion of his hon. friend, and that by such a
 431 432 433
 Mr. Hume  said, he rose to complain of a gross misrepresentation which had that morning appeared in a newspaper, relative to a motion which he had made yesterday for a return of the sums paid to the different newspapers by government for advertisements, &c. So far from finding fault with the animadversions of a public journal, he thought it its province to advert to all public subjects, but, at the same time, as the character of a public man was public property, the writer should take care that his animadversions were not founded on a gross
 422 423
 Mr. Wyvill  rose. He said, that the distress of the country was so paramount at the present moment, that no consideration should deter him from doing what he conceived to be his duty. Two committees had been appointed; but the result of their labours had been any thing rather than satisfactory. It appeared to him, that the resolutions now before the House were likely to do any thing rather than afford relief; and, indeed, the noble marquis who had brought forward some of them, admitted that they were not calculated to give relief immediately. With such a view of the subject, he proposed to take the sense of the House upon the only resolution which to him seemed capable of meeting the difficulty. Two courses only presented themselves of relief. The first was, the repeal of Mr. Peel's bill; the second was, a reduction of of taxes. Now, to the repeal of Mr. Peel's bill he was, averse. The country had proceeded so far with the difficulty, that he, for one, was prepared to go
 424 l l
 Mr. N. Calvert  did not think that any immediate relief to the agricultural interest could result from the present measure. It was necessary, however, to alter the existing law in order to prevent the great fluctuation of prices that would proceed from opening the ports. The protecting duties might effect that object. He had no great favour for any of the plans; but he thought that of the hon. member for Cumberland preferable to any other.
 Mr. Beaumont  said, the only way to prevent a revolution would be, to relieve the country from the distress under which it laboured; and how were those difficulties to be removed but by the repeal of oppressive taxes?
 Mr. T. Wilson  was disposed to vote for the remission of taxation to the utmost extent to which it could with safety be carried; but the, present motion was brought forward under circumstances so deeply affecting the honour and good faith of the country, that he felt it to be his duty not only to vote against it, but to call upon every reflecting man to pause before he gave a vote for a proposition, which might be productive of infinite mischief.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he would state very shortly the course which he had taken during this session, and his motives in tendering the resolutions which he had offered. It was known, that he had abstained altogether from attending the agricultural committee this year. He felt great satisfaction in hearing his noble friend say, that, after the treatment he had experienced from several members of the committee of last year, he was fully justified in abstaining from its duties this year. Of the report of this year he would
 445
 Sir I. Coffin  said, that a gallant member seemed to consider that Frenchmen were
 434
 Sir N. Colthurst  observed, that there were other kinds of agricultural produce, which were entitled to protection, besides corn. He would mention butter, and meant to propose a resolution to that effect.
 Sir R. Wilson  said, he had not hither to remained silent on this momentous question of agricultural distress from any want of sympathy in that distress, but from the hope that hon. gentlemen would see the fallacy of attempting to relieve that distress by partial measures. Finding, how-
 427 l l., l s
 Mr. Gooch  said, he had unfortunately given offence by stating that the report of the agricultural committee was a mystification. He really considered that report drawn up with talent; but it was not a report which could afford much instruction. He lamented that any party spirit should pervade the House on this subject, yet the abandonment of one resolution by the noble lord was certainly ground for the attack made by an hon. baronet. He wished the first resolution moved by his noble friend had been agreed to, as it would have relieved the country from the glut in the markets. As to any sweeping measure for the relief of agriculture, he did not believe there was any possible chance of giving relief in that way. All they could do was, to stem the torrent of mischief, which was inundating the country. All they could do was to prevent a fluctuation in the prices of corn which kept the farmer always in a panic. He agreed in the third resolution, which declared that the ports ought not to be open till wheat came to 75 s
 Lord Althorp  could not agree with those who thought that the present was not a proper time to legislate on the corn laws; for if, as had been recommended, they were to prevent the importation of foreign corn till the 25th March, the consequence must be that the price would rise next year, and that the subject would then come under discussion with greater inconvenience. He had looked at the evils of our agricultural interests; and the
 446 s s s s s s 447
 Lord Althorp  said, he entirely agreed in the principle of the amendment, and referred, as a proof of his assertion, to the various votes which he had given during the present session. At the same time he wished the House to go into the proposed committee—not that he looked upon the inquiry in which it was engaged as calculated to afford immediate relief, but that he thought the present corn laws so bad, that any of the proposed resolutions would be much better.
 Lord Cranborne  thought, that a duty of 12 s s s 464
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that from what he understood to have been the views of the hon. member for Cumberland in the committee, he was astonished at the views which he now seemed to take. The hon. member had said, that the markets were depressed in consequence of the quantity remaining of foreign corn since 1819. When the ports were open, and where there were no restraints, he admitted the markets were always liable to be glutted with foreign corn. The noble lord here minutely detailed the terms of his propositions. It was to be observed, that a few years ago, instead of foreign importations being viewed with alarm, the prevalent fear was that there would not be enough corn to import from Europe, and America was looked to with satisfaction as a resource. A return to that state of things might be contemplated. He denied also that 8 s s s s s s 465 s
 Mr. D. Browne  approved of the import price as well as of the duty proposed by the hon. member for Cumberland. He was an advocate for the prohibition of the importation of foreign grain, on the ground that if the farmer was secured in the possession of the home market, the united kingdom could produce corn sufficient for the consumption of its inhabitants.
 Mr. Robertson  entered into some historical details relative to the state of France previous to the seven years war, and to the change that took place during that war, by which France became a country importing, instead of exporting, grain. While she was a flourishing commercial state she ceased to pay the same attention to her agriculture. He compared with this the state of Great Britain, which had exported grain until she took from France her colonies in both the hemispheres. She then became an importing country. After the breaking out of the American war, when France and Spain united against Great Britain, when she was no longer mistress of the channel, and her commerce was crippled and reduced, her agriculture revived, and, from 1780 to 1784, she again became a country exporting grain. On the re-establishment of peace, her trade recovered; her revenue, of only 10 millions, augmented one fifth in the space of two years; she once more imported grain and so she continued until the end of the last war. The hon. gentleman concluded with calling upon government to protect and advance commerce, as the best mode of securing the welfare of all classes, and of giving the farmer a remunerating price for his production.
 Mr. Whitmore  conceived the great cause of the present distress to be overproduction. Not that he imagined, when a country stood in a natural situation, that an abundant crop could be considered an evil. In ordinary cases, where there was a large growth of corn in one part of the world, there was a defective crop in another, and the prices in consequence equallized themselves. But this was not at present the case. The circumstances of the war gave a considerable stimulus to agricultural speculations; corn was grown, at an immense expense, on poor soils; it produced very high prices; and the price of every article connected with farming was raised in proportion. The amount of capital employed, when prices were high, was, therefore, much greater than when prices were low. The capital employed in cultivating 100 acres of land in 1790, 1803, and 1813, was widely different. The amount of capital employed in the last period, as compared with the first, was no less than double. Large quantities of corn were grown during the war at a great expense. The effect of the bill of 1815 was, to keep up the stimu-
 468
 Mr. Western  said, the more he considered the question, the more he was convinced that this was not the proper time to legislate upon it. No member had clearly comprehended the whole bearing of the actual circumstances of the court, try, or the consequences of enacting a permanent law in our present unsettled state. The most vague ideas prevailed on the subject of our difficulties. He would take the premises of those who supported the resolutions, and would show that they did not warrant the conclusion to which they had come. If, as they asserted, every country of Europe teemed with a superabundant produce, and if the markets were in an unnatural state of depression, was this the time to proceed to the forma-
 469
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  thought the proposed measures of the noble marquis would do more mischief to the agriculturists than that under which they now laboured. Something, however, should be done, and it was only in consideration of the necessity of the case that he could be brought to vote in favour of any protecting duty. The propositions before the House were so numerous and so complicated, that it was difficult to understand them. He was most inclined to the plan of the hon. member for Cumberland; but he would vote for no plan which did not Contain a clause to remit the duty in the event of the price of corn rising so high as to indicate the approach of scarcity.
 Mr. Ricardo  denied that the price of corn on the continent was liable to the fluctuations of our currency.
 Mr. Ricardo  was surprised at his noble friend's proposing such an amendment. He could not see upon what principle his noble friend could justify raising the bounty on exportation to 18 s s 456 s s s s 457 458 s s s s s 459 s s s s 460 461
 Mr. Benett , of Wiltshire, said, he had never stated that foreign corn could be purchased at 25 s s s s s s
 Mr. Curwen  reminded the House, that in the memorable year 1799, when a scarcity was felt, an importation to the extent of a six weeks supply was immediately called for. That supply was provided at great expense, and not without some difficulty, from America and the Cape of Good Hope, and some rice was imported even from India. In times of danger he admitted the necessity of importing foreign corn; it ought to be then liberally received, but not permitted to remain here and accumulate to the injury of the home grower. When he objected to the duty fixed by the hon. baronet, it was not because he thought it beyond the scale of protection really due to the home grower, but because he thought it would be impossible to maintain it against the probable feeling of the country. He denied the accuracy of the calculations upon which the rates of protecting duty mentioned were framed. The noble marquis's, though intended to reconcile the wishes of all parties, were founded upon erroneous data. The price of production in foreign countries was not fairly given. Mr. Solly had informed the committee, that corn at Odessa could be had, and at a remune-
 462 s s s s s s s s s s s 463 s s s s
 Mr. Lockhart  said, he did not desire
 466
 Sir C. Burrell  was not disposed to give protection to agriculture beyond what was just to the other interests of the country. But he had alway seen that in proportion as agriculture nourished, the other interests were also prosperous. To support agriculture would be to support the country; he should therefore vote for the resolution of the noble lord.
 Mr. W. Burrell  said, that, all things considered, he was disposed to prefer the proposal of the noble lord; and, if it were accompanied with another suggestion mentioned in the report, he should consider it liable to very little exception. It was, that a duty of from 12 s s s
 Mr. Denison  said, that none of the proposed resolutions had a tendency to remove the existing evil, which arose out of unbounded taxation, and the rapid restriction of the circulating medium. Taxation was pressing agriculture down to utter ruin. He was persuaded that government might keep faith with the public creditor, and yet repeal two millions and a half of taxes. He was sorry to see a prevalent disposition in all classes, the land-owners, the fund-owners, and the ship-owners, to shift, the burthen from their own shoulders upon the shoulders of others. If ministers would give relief by a remission of taxation, all classes would more willing bear their remaining burthens.
 Sir J. Shelley  thought the proposition of the noble marquis would do some good, and that it was at all events better than the existing state of the corn laws.
 Sir H. Vivian  said, he was not one of those who attributed the distressed state of agriculture to taxation. The hon member for York had, on the preceding evening, proposed a reduction of taxes to the amount of 20,000,000 l 467
 Lord Althorp  rose, to offer a few reasons for the amendment which he had proposed late last night. His hon. friend behind him (Mr. Ricardo) had proposed a series of resolutions which fixed an import duty upon wheat of 20 s s s s s s s s s 455
 Lord Eastnor  believed that the proposition under discussion could not effect the relief of the people, and was calculated only to excite false hopes. He felt inclined to support the proposition of the noble marquis, but thought it did not go far enough.
 Mr. Foster  said, that until the penal laws were totally repealed, the peace and tranquillity of Ireland would never be restored. But, in repealing those laws, parliament should take care to carry the mind the country with them. He denied that the mind of the Protestants was with the present measure. He would support the general measure; but be thought at present that the country was taken by surprise, and that the question of securities was evaded. He would therefore vote against the bill.
 Mr. Wynn , after complimenting the hon. member for Newcastle (Mr. Wilmot) on the liberal view he had taken of the subject, expressed his concurrence in the opinion, that the passing of this bill could have the effect of tranquillizing Ireland. In every view it was most important, but in this view it was incalculably so. Without it, all future measures of conciliation would want half their grace, and every measure of coercion would acquire additional severity. He saw no reason for not carrying a partial bill of relief, if the general measure could not at present be advantageously brought forward. After referring shortly to the proceedings in 1813, and regretting the vote he had then given, the right hon. gentleman went on to contend, that no danger could result from the admission of Catholic peers into the other House. If, as the hon. member who last spoke apprehended, this bill should be followed by others to admit commoners, then was the proper time to object. At the present moment, other sects were not excluded. The learned member for Oxford also dreaded much from the votes and influence of six or eight individuals, and had contended, that if Catholics were admitted into the legislature, the king ought to be released from the obligation not to marry a Catholic. There was, however, a most decided difference between the cases: the Catholic peer would be controlled by the Protestant
 506
 Mr. Martin , of Galway, said, the hon. and learned member for Oxford had come forward on the present occasion as one of the Horiatii. [A laugh.] He begged pardon of the House if he had not pronounced the word correctly. He trusted the bill would carried. It wan not connected with the general question, and had not been brought forward by his
 507
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that after having stated his sentiments to the House so fully on a former evening, it was not his intention at present to occupy much of their attention. He rose rather for the purpose of removing some misconceptions and misapprehensions. He did not object to the measure, because it was a partial measure, nor did he solicit the vote of any gentleman who might concur with him in his objections to the particular measure, under the impression that when the general question came to be discussed, his (Mr. P's) opposition to it would be relaxed. It was impossible, after the House had so recently passed a bill removing the disabilities affecting the Roman Catholics, that he could anticipate so decided an opposition to the general measure, as might have been expected in former times; but he would not relax his opposition to the measure, because he foresaw the probability of its ultimate success. He apprehended that it was in the true spirit of the constitution that members of that House should maintain their opinions to the last, notwithstanding overwhelming majorities against them. If it were probable that the general measure would be carried, the argument for the particular measure was,  pro tanto 508 509 "Quo teneam vultus mutantem Protea nodo?" 510 a priori "adversus Martinum Lutherum,"
 The Marquis of Londonderry  agreed, with many of his hon. friends in thinking that the present moment was not the most favourable for the introduction of the general measure. He would admit that the great tendency in the disposition of the country was, to view this subject with less of alarm, and with more favourable sentiments than on former occasions; but still he did not think it would be politic to press that disposition too much. But though this was his opinion as to the general measure, still he could understand
 511 512
 Mr. Wetherell  said, that upon all former occasions he had been an opponent of the measure, termed Catholic emancipation; and whatever objections, founded upon what he conceived to be the just and wise policy, and the real principles of the constitution, had upon former occasions appeared to him to be fairly available against
 477 shapes 478 479 480 passibus œquis sparsim 481 482 "Some truth there was, but dashed and brewed with lies." "was the strength of the Catholic Party in England:" 483 origin 484 qua a priori 485 "competency or ability a priori 486 religion 487 penal laws by which Roman Catholics are shut out of both Houses of Parliament 488 489 temporal, being Protestants." 490 sub silentio 491 492 causa causans 493 ipso facto effete inert 494 495 496 497 498 an unwarrantable 499
 Mr. Canning  began by observing, that if in the reply which he had made on the former night to his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel), he had dropped a word, or let slip an expression, which could be supposed to convey to his right hon. friend's mind, that he thought he had met the question unfairly, his right hon. friend had entirely mistaken his meaning; for he would declare, that whatever difference of opinion subsisted between them, it was impossible in his conception, either with reference to the question in its wider range, or to the narrow basis on which he had placed it, to have encountered a fairer adversary. If he had said, that his right hon. friend had not touched the justice or expediency of the case, he meant the justice and expediency of that part of it which he had introduced, and not the general question. He was glad that his noble friend's speech had intervened between that of his right hon. friend and his own; for, in his latter remarks, he had very ably developed the views and the policy to which the discussion of this question should be referred. To bring the merits of this partial motion more clearly to their attention, he would beg of honourable gentlemen to recollect what had been the progress of the discussions: on the measure before parliament. To go no farther back, he would begin with the discussion which the House of Commons entertained in 1812. On that occasion, he had had the honour of submitting a resolution, the first successful one on that point which had engaged the attention of parliament. In that resolution the House pledged itself to consider the subject early in the ensuing session, with the view of bringing the question to a secure, conciliatory, and permanent adjustment. What was the fate of that measure? It was well known that it was one which did not meet the concurrence of the other House. In the next year, and in redemption of its pledge, the subject was introduced, and submitted for consideration in its most comprehensive sense. The bill had passed two of its stages, but it failed in the committee, owing to the introduction of a clause
 513 514 515 516 517 "—Vicisti, et victual tendere palmas "Ausonii videre: tua est Lavinia conjux." 518
 Dr. Phillimore  observed, that upon former occasions, the supporters of measures tending to remove the disabilities of the Roman Catholics had been met with such remarks as these—"Deal not with us in general propositions; give us some specific measure." It could not, on the present occasion be objected, that a specific measure was brought forward. He was ready to admit that the general question was one that had been ever nearest his heart; but the present measure, standing as it did on peculiar and very favourable grounds, had his most hearty support. The experience of every page in our history, since the period at which disabilities were first imposed upon Roman Catholics served to prove the claims which the peers of that persuasion had, to an act of justice like that which the legislature were now called upon to pass. The learned gentle-
 503
 Mr. T. A. Smith  said, he felt if his duty to address a few observations to the House on this particular measure, but on the general question he would not say one word. With all the respect which he had for the wonderful talents and splendid eloquence of the right hon. member who had introduced the bill, he could not help looking on this measure as a most extraordinary one. He thought the measure most unfair, most unjust, towards the great body of the Catholics: he thought it most aristocratic in its principle; for
 476 instanter
 Mr. W. Courtenay  thought the hon. and learned member for Oxford had not addressed his arguments to the true question before the House. That question was not whether these disabilities were or
 504
 Mr. W. Peel  did not believe that the supporters of the bill were aware of the consequences that would ensue if it were passed into a law. The question was not merely whether six or eight Catholic peers of high character should be admitted into the other House; but, if this partial measure was successful, Catholic commoners ere long would be introduced into this House, and there would be no reason why other sects should be excluded. What, became of the security of the Pro-
 505
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that though he had voted before for concessions to the Catholics, he had never stated his opinions
 500 501 502
 The Attorney General,  upon general principle, objected to the bill. He thought it highly improper, that the lord who had the whole patronage of the court should be allowed to participate in the fees taken by the officers whom he appointed. If the fees were more than sufficient to meet the necessary expenses, their amount ought to be abated. He complained that a measure so important to the public should have been attempted
 519
 Mr. B. Wilbraham  could not help setting his face very strongly against the measure. He, objected, to it upon public grounds, and upon the ground of its being obnoxious to some parts of the county. The bill, if passed, would be followed by others, of the same description; and there was one clause to which he particularly objected, as trenching upon the jurisdiction of the Insolvent Debtors' Court, providing, that persons found guilty of having improvidently, contracted debts might be imprisoned, for a limited period, by order of the court. It was a strong measure to give such powers to a tribunal which had served only originally for the recovery of debts under 40 s.
 Mr. D. Browne  expressed his conviction that the resolutions would neither benefit the agricultural interest, nor satisfy the country.
 Sir W. W. Wynn  deprecated any breach of faith of faith with the public creditor. He approved of the resolutions, because they formed a medium between those which proposed a very low, and those which called for a very high protection. He could, however, have wished, that the protecting duty had been higher.
 Mr. Philips  said, he had not heard the whole of he speech of the hon. member for York, when he made his motion. He did, however, hear something said about 20,000,000 l. s. s. d., s. d. 531 532 533
 Mr. Attwood  said, he rose in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. member for Wootton Basset on the subject of the prices of foreign grain, and from other hon. members on the same subject, in the course of the debate. The present measure rested for its details, altogether on the information they possessed respecting those prices. They took the price of grain in foreign markets,
 534 535 s. d. s. s., s.; s. s. 536 s. s. d. 537 s. d. s. s., s. s., s., 538 539 540 541 542 s. s. 543 544 545
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he would not follow the hon. member through a great part of the arguments which he had used, many of which did not apply immediately to the question. But he must protest against the endeavour of the hon. gentleman to suspend the operations of the legislature, and to adjourn the business of the country, until he could bring about a change in the standard of the currency. Whether the hon. member fixed upon corn, gold, or any other settled unit as the sign of value, it was difficult to form an idea of his standard by which all contracts were to be adjusted. The. declamation which he had mixed up with his political economy, respecting the in-crease of salaries by the change in the currency, was unwarranted by the state of the fact. When he called upon ministers to reduce their incomes on account of the restoration Of cash payments,
 546 s. s. 547 s. s. s. s., s. s. l.
 Mr. Philips  said that the whole hundred of Salford was in favour of the bill, and that the people of Manchester were particularly friendly to it.
 Mr. C. Wilson  said, that the primary object of the bill was to aggrandize an individual, (lord Sefton), and throw a considerable sum of money yearly into that nobleman's hands. The question in fact was, whether the Houses would sanction the transfer of from 4,000 l. l.
 Colonel Davies  rose, to submit the resolutions of which he had given notice. In thus offering himself to the attention of the House, he felt it necessary to guard against being misunderstood. It was not his intention to oppose the resolutions of the noble marquis; on the contrary, he meant to support them as far as they went, as he conceived them better than the existing law; but he should propose a set of resolutions, which the House might pass conjointly with those of the noble lord, or they would reject the one or the other, or both, as to them might seem fit. When this question was first introduced, he had determined not to offer a word upon it; but when he found that six different sets of resolutions, not drawn up with a view to immediate relief, but of providing against
 521 s. s., l.; l." l. l., l. l. 522 l. l., l. l. l.; l. 523 l. l.; l., l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l., l. l., 524 l. l. l., l. l.; l. l.
 Sir Sebright  said, he was in favour of very practicable reduction, but he felt pound to vote against the resolutions for his simple reason, that. they had nothing to do with the question before the House. He returned the noble marquis his thanks or what he had done. As far as he could judge, the resolutions of the noble marquis were an improvement upon the existing corn laws.
 Colonel Davies  expressed his readines
 525
 Mr. Western  said, he was firmly persuaded that the noble marquis's resolutions would, neither directly nor indirectly, contribute to the welfare of agriculture; but that they would even add to the load of distress which already burthened the farmer. The question mainly, if not altogether, depended upon the price of grain in the foreign market; and he contended that the noble marquis had made his calculations upon the evidence before the committee, which was given in British currency, and not according to the price of gold. If hon. gentlemen would refer to the testimony of Mr. Solly, they would find this to be the fact. Thus, the price of grain was made to appear higher abroad than it really was; and the noble marquis had, in consequence, felt warranted in proposing a duty proportionably lower. That important subject had by no means been sufficiently investigated, either by the committee of the present or of the last year; and the House was consequently legislating in the dark. At Hamburgh, wheat was now selling at from 26 s. s. s. s.: s. s.; s. d. s., s. s.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  was surprised, that the hon. member for Callington (Mr. Attwood) should have entered on the present evening into a discussion, on, the state of the currency, when he knew that the hon. member for Essex had given notice of a motion which would bring that subject fairly before the consideration of the House. As the hon. member had made several pointed allusions to him (Mr. Peel), he could not allow the present opportunity to pass without making some observations upon them. And here he must be permitted to express his surprise at the applause with which a part of the hon. member's speech had been received by gentlemen on the other side. When he heard the bill which he had had the honour of introducing in 1819, called an iniquitous measure, and found that appellation of it cheered by many gentlemen who had at that time supported it—when he recollected that the concluding resolution of Mr. Horner in 1811 contained the principle on which that individual stated that the currency ought to be conducted, and that that principle was, that within two years the Bank should return to cash payments—when he remembered that strong fact, and contrasted it with the cheers which had burst from hon. members when the act of 1819 was stigmatized as an iniquitous bill, he could not sufficiently express the surprise which he felt, or prevail upon himself to submit to such an epithet in silence. He would here take the liberty of asking, whether the principle on which that bill was founded did not receive the support of the other side in 1816? The House must recollect well that it did receive the approbation of hon. gentlemen opposite; and that circus stance made their cheers of this evening more extraordinary than they otherwise
 549 l. s. 550
 Mr. Attwood  said, he alluded to Staffordshire.
 Mr. Attwood  said, there was not employment for those labourers. The wages were probably as stated; but the men had not employment for more than four days in the week.
 Mr. Attwood  said, in explanation, that he did not recognize any opinions that had been expressed by him, amongst those which the right hon. secretary had so preposterously ascribed to him. He would request the right hon. gentleman to take his opinions from himself, and neither to form, nor collect systems for him, nor imagine that he was to be responsible for them, when collected from whatever sources. With respect to the long extract of evidence which had been read he was at a loss to know what conclusion the right hon. gentleman meant to draw from it: but as he seemed to think he had established by it, some inconsistency in him (Mr. Attwood), he begged to inform him that he had never even read, and did not know of the existence of such evidence, till the right hon. gentleman was pleased to read it to him; and all he had then to say upon it was, that the answers seemed to him at least as correct as the questions.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that in giving the negative to the resolutions of his right hon. friend, he would not deny the general principle which they involved; but he thought that principle applied to a different state of things. He was anxious to see the general basis of the corn laws well settled before he consented to such a measure.
 Mr. Maxwell  said:—The duty on foreign wool recently imposed has beer followed by the meat prosperous trade ever known in woollen manufacture, and the monopoly of the corn-market has been followed by universal demand for British manufacture; yet we are told, that protecting duties are a positive detriment to the country, and a poll tax upon the community. And a poll tax upon the community High prices here, and low prices on the continent, would lead the farmer into the most disastrous situation, we told—and yet, We have never had complaints from the Wool grower on this ground. If we raise the price of previsions, we are assured of the flight of commerce—and yet we are told that a monopoly regulation is inoperative, in effecting a rise of prices. Have the junto at Henderson's hotel—has Mr. Webb Hall—ever advanced positions more unreasonable, or less demonstrable than these? Can any
 559 560
 Mr. S. Rice  asked the noble marquis, whether it was the intention of government to adopt any resolution with respect to the second post-master of Ireland?
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that when government advised the Crown to take measures with respect to the second post-master of England, they advised the same measure with respect to the postmaster of Ireland.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the post-master there had other duties to perform, besides those of the post-office; and, besides, his salary did not exceed 800 l.
 Mr. Sykes  contended, that the proposition for the reduction of taxation was so obviously a remedy, and the only remedy for the great distress which was now felt, that he was surprised that there could be any difference of opinion upon the subject. No proposition could be more clear to his mind. His hon. friend (Mr. J. Smith) had been conjuring up a chimera, and then destroying his own creation. No one in that House had said, that national credit was not to be maintained. The reduction of taxation was the best ground on which national faith could be fixed. He had not voted on any one of the resolutions brought forward, because he had not been able to bring his mind to agree with any one of them. It was, in his opinion, the change in the currency which had caused the distress. He agreed in the main with the hon. member for Callington, (Mr. Attwood.) If they succeeded in raising corn to a high price it would be by oppressing other classes; and they would throw a burthen on the manufacturing interests which they could not bear.
 Mr. Ricardo,  in explanation of the allusion which had been made to his statement of the average prices of foreign corn, by the hon. member for Essex, begged the House would bear in mind, that there were two authorities on that subject that were quoted from, who differed much in their items. The calculations of Mr. Solly were made in conformance with the variations of our paper currency, and were, therefore, always higher than those of Mr. Grade, who made his calculations upon a fixed exchange. He had built his argument on the latter, and it would be found that whilst he was quoting from one paper, the hon. gentlemen was quoting from another, and thus the misunderstanding arose. He therefore hoped he should be acquitted of any intention to mislead.
 Mr. Ellice,  in answer to the observations of the right hon. gentleman, maintained he had always been a strenuous and consistent opponent of the paper system, but, unlike the right hon. gentleman, he had never ceased to warn the House of the ruinous and unjust consequences of the measure of 1819. The right hon. gentleman had taunted him with cheering his hon. friend (the member for Callington), for whose luminous and able statements he was, in common with the rest of the House, so much indebted, when he had called the bill of the right hon. gentleman a fraud on all creditors. He was not aware, that the observation of his hon. friend was applied exclusively to that bill, but he had no hesitation in expressing his entire concurrence in the opinion, applied, as he understood it, to the various measures adopted since the first conclusion of the war in 1814. These had been equally fraudulent on the part of government towards creditors, as the bill of 1797 had been before to all debtors. The right hon. gentleman recalled to the recollection of the House his (Mr. E's) support of the bill of 1819, and stated he rather outran the proposers of that measure, than fell short of their endeavours to restore the standard. The right hon. gentleman might also have been candid enough, to admit the principles, on which he then advocated the necessity of fixing some standard. He would not say he had been able sufficiently to explain those principles, for it was the first time he had ever addressed a public assembly, but he appealed to those who attended the discussions in 1819, whether he did not qualify his support of the bill, preferring it as the only alternative to a further perseverance in the existing system, which was then before them. The country had been too long subject to the experiments of the chancellor of the exchequer and the Bank directors, who had complete control over its circulating medium, without the most remote acquaintance with any of the common principles on which a paper currency could safely be regulated. We had had first, on the cessation of the war in 1815, a sudden contraction, and then in 1817 an immense over-issue of paper, apparently without the least reflection, and certainly without any knowledge of the necessary results of such opposite and contradictory proceedings. On the report of the committee, he entirely concurred in their recommendation that a definite standard should be
 554 l s. d., l. s. l. s. d. l. s. 555 l. s. s. 556 557
 Mr. Littleton  confirmed the truth of the right hon. secretary's statement, that the disorders in Staffordshire did not originate in distress. It was actually true, that the miners had refused an offer of 3 s.
 Mr. Brougham  asked, upon what principle he was required to exculpate himself, on account of the vote he had given in favour of the motion of his hon. friend the member for York? He must protest against a practice, which would have the effect of cramping members in the votes which it was their duty to give on public questions; and must, also declare, not only that he made use of no argument in favour of a remission of taxes to the amount of 20,000,000 l.,
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the object of the bill was, to enable persons to obtain legal redress upon reasonable terms—to enable a creditor to recover 50 s. l.
 General Gascoyne  was convinced that the principle of the bill was good, and that if it was adopted with regard to Manchester, its advantages would soon be extended to other parts of the country.
 Mr. John Smith  said, it was his opinion that the distress of the agricultural body proceeded in a great measure from a
 526 527 l. 528 529
 Mr. Hume  said, that the words of his hon. friend's motion were, that relief was only to be expected from "a large remission of taxation." Now, in that resolution he fully concurred, as did every man in the country, except perhaps the noble marquis. In 1817, the taxation of the country amounted to 60,000,000 l. l. 548 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  thought 800 l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether a similar arrangement was to take place with respect to the post-office in Scotland.
 Mr. P. Moore  said, that only one individual had petitioned against the bill, and that was the under sheriff, who was apprehensive he should not receive as much in the nature of fees as he used to do.
 Mr. Chaloner  said, his hon. friend and colleague did not state 20,000,000 l. 530
 Mr. T. Wilson  observed, that when the measure of 1819 began to operate, the depreciation of our paper currency, did not exceed five or six per cent. There was no ground, therefore, for the assertion of his hon. friend (Mr. Attwood), on this point. Neither could he agree with his hon. friend, that they had not how sufficient information to enable them to legislate on this subject. He had on doubt that the measure before them would prove beneficial.
 Mr. Huskisson  rose, for the purpose of submitting his resolutions, not with any view of opposing them to those of his noble friend, but he wished to have them recorded on the Journals. He thought the House had, in approving the resolutions before them, attended too much to one inconvenience—that of the danger of too great an influx of foreign grain from the warehouses; while they overlooked another—that of the want a steady remunerating price to the farmer. It was his opinion that the safest mode would be, a free trade in corn, with a fair protecting duty. Without this, the farmer would in time of dearth be inundated with foreign corn without an adequate protection. The time, he was convinced, would come, when we should have such a trade, by which the British grower would be protected in a degree equivalent to the disadvantages under which he laboured. The right hon. gentleman then moved his resolutions by way of amendment. [ See p.
 Mr. Peel  said, he would leave it to his
 551 552 l. l. s. s.
 Mr. Peel  contended, that the disturbances in that county did not arise out of any distress. As a proof of it, he would state one fact:—The master manufacturers had offered their labourers 3 s.
 The Speaker  suggested that it was impossible that the question could be put in he shape proposed. The resolutions of the hon. colonel could not be made part of the report of the committee.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that the chief objection to the measure was, that it
 520
 Lord Althorp  said, that petitions in favour of the bill, had been presented from Manchester, Bolton, Bury, and Rochdale; and that, in fact, the whole population of that immense district expected advantage from it. With respect to the fees, the question was, not as to their disposal, but whether they were such fees as ought to be taken. Upon the principle that the bill tended to give the people of Lancashire that invaluable blessing, a cheap administration of justice, he should vote in its favour.
 Lord Althorp  said, he would not answer the argument which his hon. friend (Mr. J. Smith) had adduced to shew that a national bankruptcy would be mischievous, but he thought it highly unfair that it should be insinuated, that all persons who voted for a reduction of taxes contemplated a national bankruptcy. He had not voted for the resolution of the hon. member for York, not because he disapproved of it (on the contrary he should support it whenever it might be again brought forward), but because it tended to interrupt an adjourned debate.
 Mr. Bennet,  in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill "to alter and amend the present mode of licensing ale houses," observed, that under the present system an individual who solicited a license was obliged to give in a certificate of character. It might naturally be supposed that this certificate would be derived from the place where he had last resided. No such
 561 l.
 Mr. Calvert  thought something ought to be done to prevent the practice of serving beer in short measures.
 Mr. R. Colborna  suggested the propriety of permitting the sale of table beer of a quality stronger than that which was allowed to be sold by the present law.
 Mr. Grenfell  thought the thanks of the
 562
 Mr. John Williams  considered the prey sent question most important as it affected the prosperity of the islands, but more important as it involved the national honour. There was some inconsistency in the argument of the hon. under-secretary. He had charged his hon. friend with having traversed a beaten track—with having furnished no new ground for his motion; and yet the hon. gentleman in the conclusion of his speech had, strange to say, expatiated on the predicament in which he was placed by being brought to the discussion of the subject by surprise. In what manner were these contradictory declarations to be reconciled? But though the hon. gentleman, in a speech of no short duration, had expatiated on many subjects rather inapplicable to the question, he had left the main body of the subject wholly unanswered. Neither on the gross amount of the expenditure incurred in the Ionian Islands, nor on the details of the civil government, the staff, &c. had the hon. gentleman condescended to give any thing in the shape of an answer. The question, then, of expenditure, remained, as stated by his hon. friend, untouched and unshaken. The hon. gentleman had, indeed, given an interpretation to the charter, which its provisions would not bear. These provisions particularly specified, that the whole military expenditure of these islands should be borne by the insular treasury to the amount of 3,000 men; but that the commander-in-chief was, on the existence of a competent necessity, authorized to increase the amount of military force. That arrangement was, however, followed up by another provision, which specified, that the whole military expense should be defrayed out of the general treasury of the island. It was, then, upon the policy pursued at home, as well as in the islands, that his hon. friend rested his position. He complained, and he complained justly, of the expense which was entailed upon this country in opposition to the provisions of the charter, and continued at a time when the extent of the national distresses required every alleviation. But then the hon. gentleman had asked, under what new pressure did the Ionian Islands labour, to render necessary a renewed discussion? The only object of such questions was, to withdraw the House from the immediate subject before it, to a distant consideration of topics altogether immaterial. Of that character was what had
 595 petitio principii, 596 "Pudet hæc opprobria nobis, "Et dici potuisse; et non potuisse refelli."
 Mr. Hume  rose to submit his motion respecting the present state of the Ionian Islands. He commenced by stating, that the task which he had undertaken was not one pleasing to himself, nor, moreover, was it of a description which any man would be disposed to undertake who was anxious for his own ease; but he considered the welfare of 200,000 inhabitants of the Ionian islands, and the connexion which the maintenance of the English character had with their condition, as superior to all personal inducements, and as calling upon him to undertake the task, however painful it might be in any particular point of view. He was, therefore, perfectly prepared to discharge his public duty, entertaining as he did the strongest opinions upon the highly improper manner in which the government of the Ionian islands had been conducted since it was placed under the king of Great Britain, as protector. This was not the first but the third time he had called the attention of parliament to the subject: and he regretted that his endeavours to ameliorate the condition of the Ionians had had so little effect. He did so last year at considerable length; and, in now again submitting the miserable situation of those islands to the attention of the House, he should be happy to compress his statements within as narrow a compass as possible, consistent with the importance of the case, and the rendering all its circumstances as intelligible as was necessary to enable the House fully to comprehend the whole bearings of the question. In discharging this duty, He begged to disclaim being actuated by any personal feelings against the character of sir Thomas Maitland, whom he had principally to arraign in the narrative of these transactions. With that individual or his family he had never had any personal connexion or difference, and could not, therefore, be influenced by private motives of any description. He felt a deep interest in the condition of these islanders, because he had spent a considerable time amongst them, and had had much intercourse with them at that period. He could not, from his knowledge of their past and present situation, look at their condition now, without deploring it in the highest degree.
 563 564 565 566 l. l. 567 l., l. l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l.; l.; l.; l.; 568 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 569 l. l. 570 l. l., l. l. 571 572 573 alone. 574 575 576 577 578 579 580 581 582 l. 583 
 l. "That it appears by documents upon the table of this House, that the Ionian Islands were, by a treaty signed at Paris on the 5th November 1815, between the courts of Vienna, St. Peters-burgh, London, and Berlin, declared 'to be a single, free, and independent state,' and were placed under the immediate and exclusive protection of the king of Great Britain; and that, by article 6 of the said treaty, 'his Britannic majesty consents that a particular convention with the government of the said United states shall settle, according to the state revenues, all matters relative to the maintenance of the fortresses now existing, as well as to the support and pay of the British garrisons, and to the number of men who are to compose them in time of peace. The said convention shall also establish the relations which are to take place between the armed force and the Ionian government.' That by article 12, of the 2nd section of the 7th chapter of the constitutional chart of the United states of the Ionian Islands, agreed to by the legislative assembly on the 2nd May, 1817, and sanctioned by his majesty the king of Great Britain, it is settled, 'that all expense of quartering the regular troops of his majesty, the protecting sovereign, and generally speaking, all military expense of every kind to be incurred by the states (as far as relates to the 3,000 men therein named) shall be paid out of the general treasury of the same.' 2. "That it appears by returns on the table of this House, that the expenditure of Great Britain for the military establishments in the Ionian Islands, amounted to the sum of 145,023 l. l. 3. "That it is expedient, in the present state of the finances of the United kingdom, that the military expense incurred for the Ionian Islands, should be paid from the revenues of those Islands, and regulated agreeably to the stipulations of the treaty of Paris, 5th November 1815, and the convention of the United Ionian
 584 4. "That an humble address be presented to his majesty, that he would be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry into the state of the government of the Ionian Islands, the causes of the general disaffection, and of the numerous arrests and banishments which have taken place there, and for what reasons the inhabitants were disarmed, and martial law proclaimed."
 Mr. Wilmot  said, it would not be necessary for him to go over the whole ground traversed by the hon. member, inasmuch as his speech, or at least the greater part of it, occupying a space of nearly two hours, consisted in a discussion of topics,  verbatim et seriatim, maximum 585 formula, 586 587 588 589 590 591 592 ad valorem ad valorem l. l. 593
 Sir I. Coffin  maintained, that the poor man was cheated by the publican in the way of bad measure.
 Mr. S. Cooper  presented a petition from the high sheriff and land proprietors of Sligo, complaining of a claim recently set up in the county of Connaught to tithe upon potatoes; no such claim having ever before been asserted in that quarter of Ireland. The calamity of which it complained was likely to be a terrible one; and all parties were interested in alleviating it, if possible. A great portion of the disturbances in Ireland might be traced to the imposition of a tithe upon the potatoe; and the attempt to introduce that system into a province not yet afflicted with it, would extend that which now was a partial state of tumult, over the entire face of the country. The dispute, out of which the present petition arose, would have been amicably settled, if the bishop had not set his face against it.
 Mr. Spring  Rice said, that this was a petition, not from one individual but from the county of Sligo, complaining of the existence of a suit at law tending to establish in that part of Ireland, the potatoetithe system, which did not before exist there. From the statement of both sides of the House, they learned that there was a practice in Ireland, of taxing the material article of potatoes betwixt the hand and the lip; that the tithe proctor interposed betwixt the hand and lip of the grower and consumer. They had also learnt that this practice was not universal in that country, and it remained for the House to determine whether it would allow so odious a system to be spread throughout the whole of Ireland. It was not from remissness that himself and his hon. friends had omitted to call the attention of the House to this important subject; but, in fact, they had been waiting in daily expectation of hearing ministers come forward with some proposition on the subject. He assured them that he would rather that the tithe for potatoes was inflicted on the Protestant landlord than on the Catholic population.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he should deal uncandidly with the House, if he did not take that opportunity of stating, that after all the reflexion which he had given this question, he was unable to see his way clearly through all the difficulties which surrounded the subject. With respect to this tithe on potatoes, what might be the
 601
 Mr. Becher  said, that this description did not apply to the character of the landlords in the south of Ireland. He knew them to be as ready as any set of men could be, to reduce their claims to meet the necessities of the times. He did not complain of the clergy; for they never received their tenth. It was the acts of the tithe-proctor that inflicted oppression upon the people; and the sooner the House investigated the whole question the better. The people of England were not generally aware of the arduous duties which were thrown on the Irish landlords. They were obliged, in their capacity of magistrates, to act the part of police officers for the maintenance of tranquillity; and he knew them in many instances to forego their rents altogether. In the district with which he was immediately connected, the conduct of both clergy and landlords was exemplary.
 Mr. Martin,  of Galway, said, he could see no excuse for any clergyman who exacted his tithe in the manner mentioned in the petition. This tithe on potatoe-ground was a great hardship, and the claim was new. The tenant in his bargain with his landlord could always calculate upon the other tithes, and consider them in his terms; but he could not guard against the potatoe-tithe; for of the existence of such a claim he was unapprised when he made his bargain. Certainly there ought to be no tithe on potatoes, where such a claim was not pre-existing.
 Colonel Butler  defended the Irish landlords, and maintained that they did not deserve the imputations which had been cast upon them. Many of them did not get a shilling in rent.
 Mr. Hutchinson  also denied that there was any similarity, as to the question of tithes, between England and Ireland. He had visited different countries, in and out of Europe: he had often seen distressed and oppressed communities; but, in the course of his life, he had never seen any thing half so deplorable, as the distress that now existed, in the southern and western parts of Ireland. One grievance was the tithe question; and there were thousands of poor Irish who each held an acre or half an acre in potatoes, and were liable to this intolerable tax. A peasant, with a wife, and six children, even if employed every working day in the year, could only hope to obtain potatoes and water for his family—rarely a little milk—and as to animal food, it was totally out of the question. After this scanty and wretched produce of his labour, and after the landlord and the clergyman took their share, nothing hardly remained for clothing or education—no depth of privation could leave, a surplus for such purposes. Where in England could such a state of misery be found? He agreed that in looking at the condition of Ireland, no small part of the misery prevailing there might be traced, not only to absentee proprietors, but also to resident holders of land. He was very sorry to hear the right hon. gent. (Mr. Plunkett) hold out so hopeless a prospect of relief; for until this important question was thoroughly examined and settled, there could be no permanent peace or tranquility in Ireland.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that in giving, as he felt himself bound to do, a negative to the motion, he should offer as shortly as he could the explanations which made it necessary for him to give the vote. He regretted that while the hon. member had confined his motion to the third class, he had entered into a general censure of the administration of his Majesty civil list revenue, as to which,
 612 minimum 613 l l l l 614 615 in forma pauperis, 616 l l.; l sui generis 617 618 l., l., l l., l., l l.: l.: l l.; l., l l 619 annus mirabilis 620 charge d'affaires, cum grano salis 621 charge d' affaires, l l l l l., l l l., l 622 l., l.; l l., l.; l 623 l 624 l., l 625 626 l l 627 l 628 l l l l l l l l 629 630
 Mr. Robinson  said, that after listening with unfeigned respect to the hon. and learned gentleman, it was with some surprise that he found, at the conclusion of his speech, that no part of his argument applied to the question before the House; or if it did in a single point, that it was in opposition and not in support of the motion before the House. With regard to the embassy at the court of St. Petersburgh, the hon. and learned gentleman was satisfied that it ought to be of the highest rank; and yet this was the very appointment of which the hon. mover had most bitterly complained. With regard to the motion, the House ought not to vote for it, unless they were also prepared for the result. So signal a proof of their utter want of confidence would undoubtedly convince ministers that they were no longer considered fit to discharge the duties of their respective offices, and that they ought to be succeeded by those
 643
 Mr. Wynn  said, he was surprised to hear it maintained, that if ministers could no longer keep the confidence of the House, they would be wrong in announcing their intention to resign. He had always understood it to be constitutional doctrine that the loss of the confidence of parliament ought necessarily to be followed by a resignation of their places by any set of ministers. With respect to the motion-he should oppose it, because he thought it would be establishing the dangerous precedent of placing a committee of that House, like a committee of public safety, over the ministry for foreign affairs; for
 651 652
 Mr. Denis Browne  thought, that the House must see the necessity of relieving the petitioners. If nothing were done by the legislature on the subject of this petition, he would himself renew the question in some shape or another.
 Mr. Curteis  said, that if a relaxation in tithes was adopted in Ireland, he must put
 603
 Col. Trench  said, he had heard with regret, that the attorney-general for Ireland, was not prepared to propose such a commutation of tithes as would sustain the just rights of the church, and effect the general tranquillity of the country.
 Mr. Dawson  said, that whenever the question of tithes came under the consideration of parliament, it would be found
 602
 Mr. Tierney  said, that so extraordinary a speech as that of the noble lord would not permit him to give on this occasion, a silent vote. All, however, that he proposed to say, would relate strictly to the question; which was, simply, whether any saving, and how much, could be effected in a particular department of the public service? It was matter of alarm, to witness after so temperate a speech as that of the hon. mover, the sort of attack which it had provoked from the noble lord. The smallness of the reduction which was contemplated could not render it an object of indifference; for they had lately seen the House, much to its honour, eager to abolish an office of 2,500 l 645 l l l l 646 647 l l 648 l l l 649 l 650
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had a measure to submit to the House on the subject of the Irish tithe system, which he hoped to be able to bring forward in time to anticipate the motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to explain some circumstances connected with this petition. He would say nothing as to the general discretion of urging the claim of potatoe tithe at the present moment in the province of Connaught; but much might be said in palliation and in justification of the individual whose act had given rise to the petition. The facts of the case were these. A gentleman in the county of Sligo, who for some years worked a farm of 200 acres, having other lands in the
 599 l l l l 600
 Mr. Abercromby  thought that the subject must recommend itself to every man of feeling and humanity. He believed that the assertion of the claim complained of would be likely to extend the evil now operating in the south of Ireland. He trusted that the House would refuse to sanction the tithe now asserted, unless compelled to do so by the irresistible force of law; and, if the claim was really founded in law, he hoped that government would instantly interpose between the clergy and the petitioners. The Irish peasant, paying 6 l l 598
 Mr. Grattan  denied, that there was any similarity whatever in the condition of the peasantry of the two countries, and protested against the doctrine, that the clergy of Ireland were poor, and the landlords extortioners. On the contrary, the clergy were very rich; and the landlords were every year losing a large share of their property. The collection of tithes was in Ireland the never-ending source of conflict; and the sooner the subject was considered the better. The tithe on potatoes ought unquestionably to be done away with.
 Mr. Hume  said, that at the request of the right hon. gentleman, he had postponed his motion respecting Irish tithes. He feared, however, that if the matter was left to the gentlemen opposite, the session would pass over without any thing being done in it; and he therefore gave notice that, in the first week of June, he would himself bring the subject fairly before the House.
 Mr. Lennard  rose, for the purpose, of proposing to the House to appoint a committee to inquire into the Expenses of the Third Class of the Civil List. In considering the subject, his propositions were—that the present time was admitted to be one of overwhelming distress; that economy was called for, with no feeble voice, by every class, from the throne to the peasant; that, without the most rigid economy, public credit could not he maintained; it could not, as had been said by Mr. Burke, exist under the arm of necessity; "necessity and credit are natural enemies, and cannot long be reconciled in any. Situation." This being admitted, it must, he thought, be as easily admitted, that in the different departments of the expenditure of the taxes, there was no one which embraced so much useless expenditure as the civil list. These two positions being admitted, there was no difficulty in arriving at the third—that when economy was demanded imperiously by our distresses, there was no department in which it could be more safely adopted, than in severely searching into this department of the civil list. Since he had first given notice of his motion, a partial reduction had taken place of the private expenditure of his majesty, in his privy purse, his household, and in the salaries of the ambassadors. That reduction had induced him to confine his motion to the reduction of the third class of the civil list, including the expenses of our embassies; and he thought be should have little difficulty in showing, that whatever, might once have been thought proper to be expended in state
 605 606 * * 607 l.; 608 l l 609 l., l l., l l.; l l., l l l annus mirabilis 610 l entrées, 611
 Mr. Creevey  wished the Muse to consider, what was the actual state of the case. A motion was made for appointing a committee the inquire into certain heads of the expenditure, and this committee, if appointed, the noble lord informed them of his determination not to attend. He conceived this to be a most daring declaration, only to be surpassed by the statement of another secretary of state, that whatever parliament might resolve, he would not advise the Crown to act in conformity with its resolution; or by the conduct of that minister who had affirmed the impossibility of governing the House of Commons without corruption. These, indeed, were novelties. It was reserved for the present time to see parliament thus degraded and insulted by the ministers of the Crown. Either the House ought to vindicate its character by an assertion of its rights, or to adjourn at once,
 644
 Sir H. Parnell  denied, that the distress was imputable to the exaction of the Irish landlords. He would undertake to say, when the compact between the landlord and tenant was fully investigated, that his right hon. friend's observation would be utterly disproved.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he should have contented himself with giving a silent vote on this motion, if the discussion had taken the course which it was natural to expect from the clear and temperate
 631 ultima ratio 632 633 "— nec enim levia aut ludicra petuntur "Præmia, sed Turni de vita ac sanguine certant., 634 635 636 637 638 639 charge 640 d'affaires, 641 642
 Sir N. Colthurst  hoped, that the great question of tithes in Ireland would be submitted to the consideration of parliament. Of one thing he was convinced, namely, that the landlords of Ireland would be found ready to co-operate in any measure which should appear calculated to relieve the people.
 Sir J. Newport  looked upon the potatoe-tithe as a dreadful scourge, and firmly believed that those who attempted to in-force it, would have to combat tumult and insurrection. The demand of that tithe was accompanied with circumstances unlike those attending the exaction of any other. The potatoe was the daily food of the peasant. Very early in the season he was frequently compelled to resort to it for subsistence. But, if he took only a part of his early potatoes for the daily sustenance of himself and his family, that taking was in law held a severance, and he was that moment at the mercy of the clergyman or of the lay impropriator. If the House could imagine one half the calamities which the demand of this tithe would cast upon a part of Ireland not yet afflicted by it, it could not for a moment hesitate interfere. Let compensation, if necessary, be made for the claim; but let it be abandoned, never to be revived. He had no terms to express his abhorrence of that man's conduct who could introduce it.
 Sir J. Newport  denied, that all these distresses, and the consequent insurrections, originated in the exactions of the Irish landlords. The great cause of the insubordination which the demand for tithes so frequently called forth, was the
 604
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, he had a petition to present signed by 600 respectable inhabitants of the county of Somerset. He hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would not be displeased with him for presenting the petition, as the prayer of it was rather unusual—it prayed the House to lay on additional taxes. From the tax which the petitioners proposed, which was in itself politic and beneficial, an ample fund might be supplied to make up for other taxes which might be repealed for the relief of the country. The petitioners felt for the distress of the country, and they called the attention of the House to a circumstance collateral to that distress, the number of Absentees who were gone to take up their residence in foreign parts. The greater part of these were persons of quality and fortune, not only from England but from the whole empire. The petitioners calculated that in the city of Paris alone, there resided 10,000 families of English, Irish, and Scots; that these families consisted on an average of five individuals each; and the petitioners went the length of saying, that these persons do not spend less than a guinea a day each, or 50,000 l. l. 654 bonus l. bonus l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the hon. member for Portarlington and other members had sufficiently pointed out the objections to the tax proposed, and the impossibility of carrying their wishes into effect. Of the many modes of taxing absentees, which had been suggested to him, none appeared to him practicable. Among the many absentees from Ireland, there were not a few who resided in England, and who, consequently, did not thereby evade their share of the taxes imposed generally upon the empire. He had taken considerable pains to ascertain the proportion of taxes which might have been borne by the absentees on the continent, had they remained in England, and he found that it did not exceed 5,000 l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that having had occasion last night to address some observations to the House upon this subject, and considering the very liberal and certainly very fair manner in which the hon. member brought forward the question, he should not think it necessary to trouble the House at any length. He
 666 667 668
 Lord Normanby  said, that though he contemplated no such effect as the resignation of the foreign secretary, he nevertheless indulged the hope of seeing the noble marquis continue in office, without the appendage of a Swiss Envoy, at an expense to the country of 5,000 l. 669
 Mr. S. Rice  warmly approved of the bill, as one of the wisest measures that could be adopted.
 Mr. Ricardo  wished to set the hon. baronet right, as to the state of the exchange, which was now, he could assure him, very nearly at par; and it was impossible it could be far otherwise, because with a metallic circulation in this country and in France, the exchange could never vary more than from ½ to ¾ per cent. As to the petition, he should be sorry to see its prayer granted; because a tax on the property or income of absentees, would hold out a direct encouragement to them to take away their capital, as well as their persons. Now, we had at any rate their capital, which was useful, though not so useful as it they also stayed at home. What most surprised him was, that the hon. baronet should bring such a petition forward, at the very time that he was proposing in the agricultural committee a resolution which might make all the articles of life, and provisions in particular,
 655
 Mr. Denis Browne  dwelt on the evils suffered in Ireland from the absentee system. All taxes were on consumption; so that they all fell on the resident gentry, while the absentees entirely escaped. One half of the men of property of Ireland were calculated to be absentees. It was disgraceful that in a country of statesmen and philosophers, such an evil as this should exist, and that we should despair of a remedy. He was disposed to apply himself to this practical evil, and not to draw sun-beams out of cucumbers.
 Mr. Brougham  was willing to give his consent to the bill, provided he did not bind himself by so doing to any approbation of the conduct of government, with respect to the affairs of Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "for the Employment of the Poor in certain districts in Ireland." The chief object of the measure was, he said, to enable the population to earn their subsistence by their own exertions, as the greatest and most substantial benefit that could be conferred upon them. It was well known, that there many large tracts of land in Ireland utterly impervious, where there was little or no communication, and where crimes were frequent from the means afforded of escape. By the present measure, it was proposed to place a certain sum at the disposal of the lord lieutenant, to be by him applied to the construction of new roads, in those districts where the suffering was most severe. The work, it was intended, should be executed, not under local authority, but by officers appointed immediately by government. A want of means had hitherto prevented the counties in question from undertaking this improvement but as soon as the advantages were realized, and the estimates of their expense submitted to the grand juries, no doubt could be entertained of their disposition to repay the sums advanced.
 Mr. H. Gurney  said, he conceived the chancellor of the exchequer would have no small difficulty in assessing the tax, proposed by the petitioners on the income of absentees; though he had always thought the abolition of the property tax, and the thus throwing the weight of the whole taxation on articles of domestic consumption, was the greatest financial error committed since the peace. He entirely distrusted the statement of the petitioners, as to the enormous sums they conceived to be spent by Englishmen
 656 657
 Mr. Warre  rose to bring forward the motion, of which he had given notice, relative to the embassy to the Swiss Cantons. He could assure the House, that in return for the favour of their attention, he would confine himself strictly to the subject of his motion, without going into the consideration of the general question, which was discussed last night. The object at which he aimed was a reduction of the expense of our embassies. By the return which had been laid on the table, it appeared, that from the year 1750 to 1783, four ministers had been sent to the Swiss Cantons at a salary of 1,572 l. l. 660 veto l. 661 662 663 664 l. l. 665
 Mr. Dickinson  thought that his right hon. friend (Mr. D. Brown) had put this question on its right footing: he had fixed the attention of the House to the main point of the petitioners—not to those who were travelling for their health, or to the youth of this country for instruction, for they too well knew the advantages of foreign travel—but to those who had fixed themselves habitually on the continent, and whose object was, to avoid the taxes, and expend their incomes in a foreign country, thereby stimulating the commerce and the agriculture of France with that capital which ought to stimulate the commerce and agriculture of England. What would happen when his hon. friend's (Mr. Ricardo's) project of paying off the national debt was accomplished, he could not pretend to say; but this he knew, that such a payment had been a vision that had inhabited the brain of many a speculative enthusiast, from the institution of that debt up to the present hour. He also knew, from experience and history, that emigrations were dangerous to the countries from which they sprung, and advantageous where they went: Holland, within the last two centuries, was a country almost wholly made by emigrations; and the revocation of the edict of Nantes had, according to historians, furnished 50,000 emigrants, who had increased the prosperity of England, of Belgium, and of Prussia, and inflicted a blow on France from which she had not yet recovered. He doubted the practicability of a tax on emigrants, but he would put it  ad verecundiam 658
 Mr. W. Smith  expressed a wish, that the chancellor of the exchequer would bring
 659
 Sir E. O'Brien  Complimented the
 671
 Sir I. Coffin  said, that the British officers residing abroad were driven there, not by inclination, but by poverty.
 Sir W. De Crespigny  felt anxious that the benefits of this measure should be rendered permanent.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that as the bill had undergone a full discussion, and as the sense of the House had been fairly taken on the subject of it, he would not persist in what he had no doubt must be an unavailing opposition. He trusted, however, that his not pressing the House to another division, would not be construed into any want of decision, or any diffidence of the opinions he had delivered on this important bill.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, he could not arrest the progress of the bill in that House; but he might at least be allowed to thank God, that there were three estates of this realm—the King, Lords, and Commons.
 Mr. Robinson  said, he did not happen to be in the House when the discussion to which the hon. member alluded took place. The fact, however, was, that last year an act was passed, imposing a duty upon East India sugars, which act would expire this year. If it should be proposed
 676
 Mr. Marryat  denied the correctness of the statement, that a tax was imposes on the people of England, by the prefer-
 692 693 694 695 other sugars 696 s d d d d 697
 Mr. Wilboforce  thought it might be desirable to connect with this bill a provision for registering slaves like that which he had brought under the consideration of the House five or six years ago, but which had not been adopted. In granting the boon now intended to be given by this bill, some security ought to be obtained against the importation of slaves.
 Mr. Bernal  contended, that this bill was not a boon to the West India colonies, but to the great body of distressed shipowners. He thought the present measure ought not to be clogged with any enactment with regard to the registration of slaves.
 Mr. Martin , of Galway, expressed his gratitude to ministers for the measure they had proposed. He trusted that no person would exaggerate the distresses which existed in Ireland and play off the calamities of that country to disturb the empire. He felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to the conduct of an hon. member. That hon. member (Mr. Hume) was usually very constant in his attendance in the House, and he had heard him talk of this thing and that thing; but when the present subject came to be discussed, the hon. member yawned, and walked out of the House. The hon. member was soon to treat of the tithe system of Ireland. He would supplicate that hon. member to leave Ireland to other gentlemen, and the legitimate ministers who represented that country in the House. The hon. member, he dared to say, would come down to the House and bewail the sufferings of Ireland-but what was Ireland to him?
 "What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba, "That he should weep for her?"
 Mr. Hutchinson  thought it was invidious and unjustifiable to allude to any member in the manner the hon. gentleman had done. If the hon. gentleman alluded to the hon.
 701
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he could assure the hon. member for Norwich, that the most strenuous efforts were making in various parts of Ireland to raise subscriptions for the relief of the distressed sufferers.
 Mr. Becher  said, he was gratified at the introduction of such a measure. It was a source of high gratification, that the liberality of, the people of England was now endeavonring to remedy the evil caused by government; but as prevention was better than cure, as employment was preferable to alms-giving, he should have been better pleased if timely measures, had been adopted by government, by which much of the present distress might have been avoided.
 Mr. Martin  said, that his observations were intended to apply exclusively to the hon. member for Aberdeen. He was sorry that the hon. member had not been in his place when he addressed the House. His absence was a bridle in his mouth, and had prevented him from saying a great deal more. He would willingly repeat in his presence all that he had said in his absence.
 Mr. G. Lemb  thought it would have been better if the hon. member had refrained from alluding to the conduct of an absent member.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  conceived, that upon every ground of justice, policy, and humanity, the country was bound to thank his right hon. friend for bringing forward this bill. Since the period at which the existing laws were framed, the country had acquired, by the result of two successful wars, a large addition of extensive, valuable, and important colonies and towards those colonies, the treasure was an act of absolute justice.
 Mr. C. R. Ellis  thought, that the East India merchants had no just claim to such a benefit as the hon. member for Weymouth had put in for them. They were, in effect, asking for the ruin of those who had virtually abolished the slave-trade. The representations of those for whom
 677
 Mr. Ricardo  rose, in the first instance, to make one observation on the subject of the currency. Though the facts were not known to him, he could not help suspecting the correctness of his hon. friend, respecting the payments in the west Indies. That persons in the West Indies who, in 1815 paid a debt of 100 l l l 691
 Mr. Ellice  offered his cordial support to this bill as one of those measures of approximation to free trade, which was the safest, and best, protecting, to a rational extent, existing interests which had grown up under an opposite system, and at the same time offering to the rest of the world a sincere proof of our disposition to carry into effect those liberal principles which we had so loudly professed. He had listened with attention to the speech of his hon. friend the member for Norwich (Mr. Smith) and had heard no argument urged against this measure, which did not equally apply to our whole colonial system. Certainly if we were I now called upon to legislate on this important subject for the first time—with the experience and information the last century had given us, he might agree in the impolicy of peopling the West India Islands with slaves, to produce articles, which we could more easily and profitably obtain from other countries in exchange for our manufactures—but the case before the House was, how the restrictions on trade could be gradually and ultimately removed, without entailing absolute ruin on those, who had embarked their property on the faith of existing regulations and the protection of parliament. This bill was, in his opinion, calculated to effect that object, and he therefore supported it. Much matter had been introduced foreign to the subject under discussion, and the attention of the House had been diverted from it, by a kind of by-battle between the East and West Indians, respecting the duties on sugar, which were to be regulated hereafter by another bill. He could not avoid, as this course had been followed, offering a few remarks in answer to some very strange observations of one or two of his hon. friends on this subject. The West India planter was, in his opinion, fairly entitled to a moderate protection for some time to come, in the same manner as he conceived the agriculturist entitled also to a moderate, not to the monstrous, protection, afforded him by the corn bill. One hon. gentleman (Mr. Money) had brought before the House the whole case of the, cultivators of India. He complained, and with great
 682 s d d 683 684 l l 685 686 l 687 l l l l 688 1 s d s s s l l l l 689 l 690
 Mr. Canning  could not do justice to his own feelings, or to the conduct which had been pursued by his right hon. friend, if he did not declare, that the course he had pursued upon this occasion reflected on him the highest credit. Entertaining the strong sentiments which his right hon. friend was known to cherish upon this subject, it was impossible that he could have acted in a more candid, a more liberal, or a more handsome manner. Next to the gratification he should have felt in having his right hon. friend for a supporter, was the satisfaction of having had such an opponent.
 Mr. Bright  thought, that the East India question stood on very different and distinct grounds from any upon which the interest of our West India colonies could be imagined to rest. The East Indies by their natural situation could not be made more accessible to the rest of the commercial world than they now were. The nature of our communication with them was liable to very little alteration. But in regard to our intercourse, and the intercourse of other powers, with our West India colonies, we were very differently situated. He, therefore, implored ministers to put the minds of those who were interested in the West India trade at rest, by specifically declaring what were the intentions of government. A very large capital was embarked in this extensive branch of our commerce; and a very strong and painful interest was excited among its principal members, as to the ultimate views of ministers with respect to this subject.
 Mr. Brougham  said, it could not be denied that great distress existed amongst the West India body of merchants—a distress which was as great, if not greater than that which prevailed amongst our agriculturists at home. Therefore, it was, that he should be glad of this measure for their relief, though it was not called for by themselves; and he hoped that a much
 698
 Mr. Powell Buxton  rose to remind the House, that last year the chancellor of the exchequer had stated, that a proposition, as to-East India sugars being imported into this country on the same terms that sugars from the West Indies were, might be referred to the committee on foreign trade. That, however, had not yet been done; and as this bill greatly interfered with the question of adopting such a proposition, he wished to ask the right hon. gentleman when it was intended to bring it forward? Certain facts had recently come to his knowledge which attached additional importance to this question. By a very able pamphlet lately written by an intelligent merchant of Liverpool, a Mr. Cropper, it appeared that the tax levied by the West India importers upon the public in profit on their sugars, over and above the profits which the public would have to pay on other sugars, was no less than 1,500,000 l s 675 s l l ad valorem d d l l l
 Mr. J. Smith  gave his warm support to the present measure, and thought that thanks, were due to the right hon. gentleman by whom it was introduced; though he could not extend those thanks to the government generally; seeing that they might by timely measures have prevented much of the evil. Still he hailed the present plan, because he was satisfied that it would be productive of considerable relief. He had become acquainted, in the committee at the London tavern, with scenes of distress now prevailing in several parts of Ireland, which he almost shuddered to think of, and which he could not detail to the House. But, from all he had learned, he had come to this conclusion, that the want of employment was the great cause of the evil. England was now imperatively: called upon to assist the sister island. We owed her a great debt, which we ought now to discharge. We had in our prosperity acted towards her with oppression; and we were bound at this trying time to do every thing for her improvement. It was in evidence before the committee for managing the Irish subscription, that in the barony of Moyarta, in the county of Clare, there were not less than 10,000 individuals without the necessaries of life. A large portion of them were deprived of the assistance which they might have expected from a resident country gentry, and were left to perish from want of food; as he had no doubt many of them had done. Now, be contended, that the hundred of Brixton in Surrey, or of Ossulston in Middlesex, had not a better
 700
 Mr. Barham , that his hon. friend in speaking of the monopoly, had said that they ought to possess it entire. Not only did he subscribe to that doctrine, but every man in the colonies assented to it. They considered it as their charter. It was on the faith of that agreement that those who preceded them had formed their great colonial establishments. If it was violated, it would be an act of gross injustice, and the colonial interest would be absolutely annihilated. But, it seemed, there had been an invasion of that monopoly; and that was used as an arguments for destroying it altogether. Now, if there had been an invasion of that monopoly, it was not effected for the sake of the West India interest; and if, for the purpose of serving some other interest, the West India proprietors gave up a certain right, it was not fair to turn round on them any say, "Your contract is broken, and the monopoly shall be destroyed." This would be a most violent and a most unjustifiable doctrine. Perhaps this measure might do good. He did not say that it would or would not. But why should a measure be introduced which would deprive the West India proprietor of a prietor of a privilege which had long been his, on account of some incidental, some contingent benefit? Why should he, for such a speculation, be reduced to a mere nonentity? With respect to the right of trade which had been granted to Demerara and Berbice, it had been asked, why, at the time, some representation was not made on the subject? He had only to answer, that representations were made. At that time there was an abundant supply of colonial produce, and the act of the minister, on that occasion had tended to create the present distress. The West India merchants remonstrated in every way they could; and he was one of a deputation that waited on the minister, and argued the question with him. He (Mr. B.) then foretold what distress
 680 681
 Captain O'Grady  regretted the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Galway. It was exceedingly improper that any gentleman who might originate a measure in that House, should be subjected to the foul imputation of making it a party question.
 Mr. T. Wilson  feared, that the bill would do but very little good to the West India trade; and if it did not effect a positive good to that interest, he thought it was likely to be productive of mischief somewhere else.
 Mr. Manning  described the distress in the West Indies to surpass all description, and to exceed that experienced by the agricultural classes here; and therefore he considered it was of the utmost importance to afford relief.
 Mr. Money  contended, that the East India merchants had been treated with injustice and partiality by the legislature. It had refused to receive the cotton manufactures of India without a duty amounting t prohibition; while it had compelled the inhabitants of the East Indies to receive our manufactures without the payment of any duty.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he did not wonder that gentlemen were anxious to press this subject forward now, because the longer
 678 679
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he would mention to the. House one class of absentee landlords, whose benevolent example he trusted would have many imitators. The parties to minim he alluded were two corporate bodies of London, who possessed estates of considerable extent in Ireland. The first was the Drapers company. They had on their estates, tenantry of not less than 1,791 families, consisting of 10,740 persons, for whose relief they had done every thing which could be expected. The other company was one to which he had the honour of belonging. They had come to the possession of a considerable estate in Ireland, on the demise of the late king; and since then they had expended seven-eighths of their income in improving the condition of their tenants. He was sorry that the subscription opened for the Irish poor had not the names of many of the Irish absentees.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down appeared to be against all monopolies but the monopoly enjoyed by the West India merchants. The great object of the bill was, to allow to our colonies free intercourse and communication with every part of the world; and he apprehended that if the trade in sugar was not thrown open, considerable mischief must ensue to the commerce of Great Britain. Under the pressed regulation, the consumption was rather declining than increasing. In the short period of three years the quantity of sugars on hand had diminished from 28,000 to 62,000 hogsheads. If sugars were allowed to be exported to every part of Europe, the consumption would be very materially increased.
 Sir N. Colthurst  expressed his approbation of the grant, and was confident that the noble, generous, and humane manner in, which the people of this country had come forward on this occasion would make a lasting impression on Ireland, and inspire the sincerest gratitude.
 Sir W. Curtis  asked, who had called for such a measure? None, but such as acted from motives entirely interested. He should oppose the bill in every stage, on account of its decided interference with those navigation and revenue laws under which the kingdom had flourished during so long a period. The only advantage that could accrue from it must be to America; since, it would allow her ships to load at ports in our West India colonies, and to sail directly for the United States.
 Mr. Denis Browne  entirely concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman on the value of the linen trade. He hoped the attention of the committee would be directed generally to the whole linen trade in Ireland, and not to any partial purpose.
 Mr. Spring Rice  spoken in favour of the Irish linen trade. Whatever measure was calculated to improve it must confer a great national benefit. He would suggest to the right hon. secretary for Ireland, the propriety of encouraging the growth of flax, and thereby opening a source of employment to the people, in the preparation of the article for the linen trade. This was a very favourable moment for giving effect to the report of the commissioners upon that subject.
 Sir George Hill  rose to move for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the laws which regulated the Linen Trade of Ireland, and to report thereon. He remarked, that nothing was of more importance to the sister kingdom than her linen trade, and more particularly in the province of Ulster, where it was carried on to a great extent. The object of his committee was, to simplify the numerous and complicated acts of parliament which had been passed at different periods re specting this trade. Many difficulties arose respecting the arrangement of the officers, who were, as the law stood, to superintend the different markets in Ireland. The applications which were made on the subject from the counties of Down,
 702
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the grievances to which the marriage act gave rise were
 705
 Mr. D. Gilbert  observed, that parliament had, upon various occasions, agreed to bills which had a retrospective effect. In proof of this, he observed, that the ancient mode of executing deeds and wills was by sealing and delivering. In modern times, however, signing was introduced. Now, it had so happened, a few years ago, that property, to the amount of several millions, had been transferred in the ancient mode, without the formality of signing, by which the transfer was vitiated. Under these circumstances, that House had passed a bill, which was in spirit similar to that now before the House, by which those deeds were rendered valid.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  observed, that a great mass of evil was generated under the existing law, and, as a moral
 708
 Mr. Wallace  said, he wished to offer to the House a few observations on the nature and object of the measure which they were about to discuss in committee, and, at the same time, to state the alterations he should propose in the committee, which he hoped would have the effect of obviating the principal objections that had been advanced against certain parts of the bill on a former evening. The measures now immediately before the House, and another, not at present under their consideration, were intended to carry into effect the propositions which he had the honour of laying before the House at the close of the last session, for the purpose of clearing, simplifying, and amending the navigation laws of this country, as well as with a view to the extending and improving our commercial intercourse with foreign nations. Bills were at that period introduced,  pro forma 709 710 by 711 712 713 714 715 dépôt 716 717 718 directly 719
 Mr. Davenport  vindicated the proceedings of the deputation from the silk manufacturers. The silk trade was the only flourishing trade in the country at the present moment. He trusted that full time would be allowed to those whose interests were affected to be heard by counsel against the bill.
 Sir W. De Crespigny  protested against the principle of the bill. It militated against the best interests of the country, and was equally prejudicial to British shipowners and seamen.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  defended the shipping interest against the animadversions thrown out against them. It might be said that they were a body who felt anxiously alive to their own exclusive interests; but so ought all bodies of men to feel. It was their opinion, that where a competition existed an advantage should not be taken from one party which would result to the benefit of the other. But the difference of expense in navigating an English ship of 500 tons, and a foreign ship of the same burden, was upwards of 1,700 against the English ship; therefore
 720
 Mr. Bastard  hoped an opportunity would be afforded to the silk manufacturers to be heard by counsel.
 Mr. T. Wilson  did not think that the measure would be productive of the good anticipated from it.
 Mr. Ellice  suggested the propriety of giving time for the fullest consideration of the subject. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would give members an opportunity of discussing the subject at some future stage.
 Mr. Wallace  said, he had no wish to refuse the fullest opportunity to parties concerned to defend their interests.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  would oppose the bill in every stage, and was for inserting any article by which the bill might be likely to be thrown out. If passed into a law, it would transfer the trade of England to the opposite shores.
 Mr. Ricardo  considered it a happy omen that so many gentlemen were now of opinion that our system admitted of improvement. The only complaint he had against the bill was, that it did not go far enough.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he recognised in this bill a portion, though a very minute portion, of the improvements in our commercial system which had often been recommended from his side of the House. A few years since, he had occasion to call their attention to the state of the manufacturers of this country, who had been then almost as much distressed as the agriculturists were now. He then alluded to the improvement of the navigation laws as a remedy, and had remarked, that they had indeed been once beneficial, but that their character had since changed. On that occasion the very person who now brought forward the present measure, had moved the passing to the order of the day. He (Mr. B.) rejoiced that in this improving age the measure which had been so treated five years ago was now brought forward under auspices which made success almost certain. As relaxation had begun on a
 721
 Mr. Wetherell  contended, that it would be an unprecedented deviation from the general rules of jurisprudence, to give this measure a retrospective operation. The general rule of law was, that a party should bear the consequences of their own crimes, faults, and even errors. It was unwarrantable, therefore, if a man became the lawful possessor of property, on account of the invalidity of the marriage of his uncle for example, to step in and deprive him of his right.
 Mr. Wetherell  was surprised at this clause, which was calculated rather to increase than to diminish the cases of doubt and difficulty which arose under the marriage act. Here was one of the penalties which had been long attached to illicit connexions at once removed. The effect of this first clause would be, that any young man might marry a minor, born out of wedlock, with the consent of her mother as knowing that the mother herself was not in a condition to give it under the present law, and as being willing to take the chance of future legal decisions, whether by the pending bill she would be empowered to consent. The present bill would be a premium on these hypothetical marriages, and might lead to the most mischievous consequences. A young lady might say to a gentleman, or a gentleman to a young lady under age, "Oh, never mind the consent of father, or mother, or guardian; let us marry, and take the chance of our marriage being, if we continue together till after our majority, declared valid, and our children legitimate, or, if we do not, of its being pronounced invalid, and our children illegitimated." In fact, the bill provided, that where parties had married, the one or each of them being a minor, without consent of parents or guardians duly obtained, they should not be allowed to institute any suit for the annulling of such marriage, if they had continued together until the minor was of the age of 21 years. This measure, therefore, which was intended to be amendatory was, in fact, attended with ten times the objections and obscurity that attached to the existing law. Since the case of "Liddiard and Horner," decided in 1799, and the effect of which was to lay down a rule of construction different from that which had previously prevailed every body must know the principle of the existing marriage law. It might be, therefore, imprudent to alter it. He would conclude by moving, as an amendment, that all the words after "be it enacted," be left out.
 Dr. Phillimore  proposed to substitute the word "natural" in place of the words "natural and lawful," in the first clause. In many instances the marriage had been invalidated, although the mother had given her consent to it, her daughter being a minor; because it had been afterwards roved that such party was the natural mother only, and not the natural and lawful, mother. The House, he thought, would not be disposed to sanction such a plea.
 Dr. Phillimore  said, that as the law now stood, all marriages of minors, had without the consent of the natural and lawful parents, or of guardians, were declared to be null and void. The consequence was, that either of the parties contracting marriage under such a disability, might at any period of his or her life, however remote, come forward and set aside the connexion. They might, as the law was new administered, set aside their own oath, after taking the benefit of their own perjury.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  maintained the propriety of the retrospective part of the bill, and cited several precedents in its favour; especially the statute of limitations, and the act of James 1st, assigning the period within which suits from personal property might be instituted. Thus, the security of a tailor's bill was guarded with all the anxiety of legislation, while the dearest and most solemn ties, as the marriage law now stood, were left without any corresponding protection. Hence might foreigners fairly infer, that the English disregarded every thing that was not immediately connected with pounds, shillings, and pence: that the relations of blood, and affection—the bonds of father, mother, and child,—were postponed on our Statute book to the most insignificant matter of pecuniary arrangement. The object of his amendment would be, to restore the bill in some degree to the shape in which it formerly passed that House. The law, as it now existed, was cruelly, needlessly, and inquisitorially retrospective, and one great object of the measure now under consideration was to remedy a law so un-
 706 707 ab initio
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he was not prepared to hear an hon. gentleman rise in his place in that House and declare that no alteration was called for in the existing marriage law—a law which he would be hold to say, had encouraged fraud, perjury, and dishonour—had sowed the seeds of dissention in private families—had caused misery and anguish between parties in all situations—and had introduced
 704
 The Marquis of Londonderry  was surprised, after it had been intimated to the hon. gentleman, that no opposition would be made to his motion, that he have brought forward such a variety of details, which no man could he prepared to answer on the sudden, which were calculated to produce false and painful impressions—and which could answer, no practical purpose. With reference to the question the hon. gentleman had again raised on the contract of the civil list, he (Lord L.) contended, that it was a contract of the strictest kind, under the sanction of the law. It was true, that like all contracts, it could he avoided by consent of the parties; and whenever the Crown came to parliament, the whole question was thus opened to revision. But the Crown had never said—"give me back my hereditary duties;" and the public had been a gainer during the whole of the late reign, by an arrangement made at the beginning of it, to the extent of eight or ten millions.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that constitutional authorities were decidedly against the position of the noble marquis. As to the Crown having been a loser by the contract, if the public had not been saddled
 725
 Mr. Goulbourn  was confident, that the hon. member for Aberdeen was mistaken in several of the statements he had made.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to do justice to Mr. Crofton, who had indeed a retired allowance of 1,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume,  moving for a return of all pensions, allowances and other expenses paid out of the Civil List of Ireland, observed, that he was extremely desirous of ascertaining how they had been augmented to so large an amount. The civil list of Ireland amounted in the first year to; 214,877 l. l. l. l. at once. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. 723 l. l. l.; l.; l. l. l. * 
 
 In 1769 £.513,511 
 —77 618,340 
 —84 60,000 
 —86 210,000 
 1802 990,053 
 —4 591,842 
 —5 10,458 
 —14 118,853 
 3,113,061 
 Regency expenses, viz. 52 Geo. 3, c. 8. 100,000 
 April 5, 1815, to pay off arrears 534,713 
 £3,747,774. 724 l. l. s d. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had spoken Mr. Crofton, only as one out of eighteen; and if he was mistaken, the return, when produced, would set him right. If the secretaries of the lord lieutenant did not receive the sums he had mentioned from the civil contingencies, he apprehended it would found that they did obtain them from the civil list, or from the consolidated fund.
 Mr. Peel  had been for six years connected by official ties with Mr. Crofton, and assured the hon. member for Montrose, that he was completely mistaken in his assertions. He was also misinformed regarding the secretaries of the lord lieutenant, who received nothing from the civil contingencies.
 Sir J. Newport  felt himself bound to bear testimony to the talents of Mr. Crofton in the department to which he had so long belonged.
 Sir J. Newport  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "to authorize occupying tenants in Ireland to tender in part payment of rent receipts for grand jury and parochial assessments, subject to certain exceptions." This bill materially concerned the interests of a large portion of the people of Ireland, whose distresses it was calculated to relieve, as well as to place them in a greater degree of certainty as to the payments which they had to incur with their rent. The grand jury presentments in Ireland were peculiarly extensive and severely pressing in their' nature upon the occupying tenant. Soon after the Union, the Irish presentments did not exceed 400,000 l., l., 722
 Colonel Wood  thought, that the great increase of property which had taken place in Wales since the time of Henry the 8th, entitled them to a change in their judicature more suited to their, present state. The honourable colonel said he had changed his mind on this subject; and he had done so from conviction.
 The Attorney General  could not agree to the plan of abolition, or of increasing the number of English judge. The present system of Welsh judicature was defective, and ought to be amended; but the hon. member for Carnarvon was about to bring in a bill to remedy those defects, and the House was not at present in a condition to come to a decision on the question. Besides, the opinions of two previous committees were in favour of amendment, and not of abolition.
 Mr. C. Wilson  bore testimony to the respectability and integrity of the Welsh judges; but said, that any measure which would have the effect of assimilating the jurisdictions in Wales with those of England should have his support.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he should, as a general principle, have no objection to the jurisdictions in Wales being assimilated to those in England; but he did not think that such a measure could be carried into effect without considerable inconvenience. He had no objection to discuss a bill on the subject; but he could not give his assent to the whole of the resolutions before the House. He would suggest to the hon. member to withdraw his motion now, and if he should not be satisfied with the plan to be proposed by the member for Carnarvon, he might renew it at a future day.
 Mr. M. A. Tayor  supported the motion, but was unwilling that, a question of such importance should be disposed of in so thin a House. He therefore moved as an amendment, that the debate be adjourned to that day fortnight.
 Mr. Allen  prefaced his motion upon this subject by a variety of observations upon the state of the courts of justice in Wales. He complained generally of the want of responsible officers, and of the inefficacy of process issuing from the courts of equity. The courts of common law were, perhaps, in, even a worse condition. The allowing, judges to practise as barristers between the sessions was highly objectionable. It opened a door to connexions between judges and attorneys, which might be highly prejudicial to the ends of justice. The hon. gentleman further complained of that law which permitted the trying of a Welsh cause in the nearest English county. When the House heard that the cost of such a removal was 300 l., 729 730
 Mr. Jones  expressed his decided disapprobation of the motion. Admitting, for the argument that the court of equity could not enforce it's decrees, it was in the option of the plaintiff to proceed either there or in the superior court of England; but he was prepared to show, in opposition to what had been stated, that it could enforce its decrees. Having gone through the whole of the evidence annexed to the two reports, he felt satisfied that it was strongly against the change now proposed. The hon. gentleman entered into some details in order to support this opinion. He particularly dwelt upon the point, that law was both cheaper and more expeditious in Wales than in England, and to this effect he quoted the words of the report of the committee of 1819. He also adverted to the testimony in favour of the
 731
 Mr. Barham  said, that on fairly viewing this subject, any one would naturally ask what reason could be assigned for supporting a separate judicature for so small a part of the united kingdom? Reasons, cogent enough, might have existed in the time of Henry 8th; but what was there now in the state of Wales, so different from that of any other part of the empire, as to make such a judicature necessary? He might be answered, that the language of the country was different. But to this he should rejoin, that the proceedings, the banisters, the judges, were all English. The country was mountainous; but many parts of England were equally so. He believed the present Welsh judges to be men of learning, integrity, and honour, but he must be allowed to observe, that the judges in Wales were not looked upon by the people with the same respect that was shown to the judges in this country. The Welsh people could not but be aware that, their judges were chosen, sometimes rather for their parliamentary services, than for their professional qualification. The best evidence of the opinions of the people was to be found in their own conduct; and certain it was, that they removed every thing they possibly could do—and that a great charge—to another judicature. Without meaning any reflection on an hon. gentleman, opposite (Mr. Jones), he did think that the motion would do a great good, if it should reduce the number of Welsh attornies in some proportion to the remainder of the population.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he should be curious to see in what manner the hon. gentleman would word his clause to prevent the appointment of Welsh judges from political motives, and to deprive the Treasury of the power which it possessed at present by law, in order to transfer it to the lord chancellor. The old mode of appointment by the minister of, the day, was, of itself, a most abominable evil; and he put it to those who heard hin, whether the inhabitants of the principality of Wales were not entitled to the same pure administration of justice as the people of England. It was puerile to bring forward the names of respectable persons who had taken Welsh judgeships only as a stage in their professional advancement. He might just as fitly quote the names of lord Bacon and lord Coke, in favour of the continuance of the court of star chamber. Would any man say that the principle of selection was the same with the Welsh judges as with the other judges of the land? It was not to be denied, that the former had been chosen for their parliamentary influence; and if this was the fact, what more was it necessary to state in support of the present motion? He was not at all sure that the exclusion of Welsh judges from seats in the House would be effectual. They might still be named from parliamentary considerations; and, though the mode and form might thus be changed, the effect would be the same, while the responsibility of the advisers of the Crown in this respect might be lessened. The
 732 733
 Mr. Scarlett  perfectly concurred with his hon. and learned friend, that rattler than the respectability of the administration of justice should be lowered by an inequality among the judges, the number of the superior judges ought to be increased; but he did not think the necessity existed. He had no partial attachment to the number of twelve, nor did he think there was any extraordinary virtue in that of four; but he thought that if at present an alteration of the judicature of our courts was necessary, the number of judges ought rather to be diminished than increased. He was opinion that one of, the judges of the King's-Bench might be detached in term time to do the inferior criminal business, while the higher duties might be performed by three. There was a great deal of minor business which came before this court, and which he thought might be disposed of as he proposed. As to the present system of Welsh judicature, it was undoubtedly very defective, It was difficult to suppose that gentlemen at the English bar, who were in any thing like eminent practice, would accept of the appointment
 734 l.
 Mr. Marryat  believed that the proposed measure would operate injuriously upon the vested interest of the brewers.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that, in looking to the abuses which had so long existed in the licensing system, he felt that those abuses could not be fully remedied, or the monopoly broken up, without injuring the private properties of certain individuals. Therefore, his object, when he first brought the question forward was, with a view to have it discussed, and understood both in and out of doors. If the magistrates in the country, generally, would adopt the system practised in Wiltshire, there would be little fear of a monopoly of licenses. The magistrates of those counties, whenever they found that the brewer's had a monopoly in any one district, instantly granted a new license, by which means all monopoly was destroyed. He begged the attention of the House, while he stated a few instances of the extent to which the monopoly of the beer trade had been carried in some parts of the country. In Portsmouth there were 231 public houses; of these 168 were in the hands of brewers, 31 in the hands of spirit-merchants, and 29 were free houses. In King's Lynn there were 68 public houses, all in the hands of the corporation or of brewers. In Brighton there were 66 of which 55 were in the hands of the brewers. In Watford, St. Alban's, and Reading, all the public houses were in the hands of the brewers. In other counties, such as Staffordshire and Shropshire, where beer was brewed at home, there was another description of monopolists—he meant the malsters of those counties. In one district near London there were 180 public houses, all of which were in the hands of brewers except 19. In the eighteen excise districts there were 8,859 public houses in the hands of brewers, being a proportion of five to one of the whole number. Having thus pointed out the evil, he now came to the remedy. He had intended to open the beer trade
 737
 Mr. Bennet  presented a petition from the licensed victuallers of the metropolis complaining of the present mode of Licensing Public-houses.
 Mr. Bernal  observed, that the interests of those brewers who were freeholders of public-houses would be very materially injured by that clause of the bill which provided that a magistrate should grant a license to any individual who possessed the qualifications necessary to enable him to open a public-house. The clause would also hold out greater temptations to drinking.
 Mr. F. Palmer  thought, if the hon. member abandoned the clause making it compulsory on magistrates to grant a license, he might as well give up the bill altogether.
 The Chancllor of the Exchequer  said, that he would call to the recollection of the House, As briefly as possible, the principle of the resolutions on this subject already agreed to by the House. The resolutions to which the House had agreed [see p. 264], recognized the military and naval pensions granted during the late war, and also the civil superannuations, granted by: consent of parliament, as Ai charge on the public, and as forming part of the public debt. These pensions were granted for the seryices which brave and meritorious persons had rendered their country. Without attempting to carry the analogy farther, he would say, that the House having recognised the principle that these pensions formed part of the public debt, had also recognized the propriety of this principle—that where a large public debt pressed upon the country,
 738 739 l. l. l. l. l. l. 740 l. 741 l. l. l. l. l. l, 742 l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. 743 s. s. s. 744 s. s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. l. l. 745 l., l. l., l., l. l. l. 746 l. l. l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Calcraft  congratulated the House upon the propositions which they, had just heard. He confessed that he must
 747 748 s.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that after the manner in which the hon. member had expressed himself, it would be unpardonable in him to make a single observation which might interrupt the harmony of the evening. He had not for a long time, passed so satisfactory a moment; nor did he ever remember to have seen the countenances of the gentlemen opposite so creditably lighted up. The hon. gentleman had done such ample justice w the plan of his right hon. friend, and he had spoken of it in such a spirit of candour, and even of kindness, that he (lord L.) should be doing violence to his own feelings if he suffered himself to let fall any expression which might throw a cloud over this happy dawn. There was one maxim of the hon. gentleman, however, from which inconvenient consequences might be drawn, if it were suffered to pass wholly unnoticed. As the hon. gentleman had called upon the House to observe what advantages were derivable from opposing ministers, he (lord L.) would remind the hon. gentleman of the advantages of supporting ministers, Whose great object was, to preserve public credit. He agreed with the hon. member, that if the fisheries should be embarrassed or injured by this duty, it would be incumbent on the House to consider the particular bearing of the tax upon their interests The hon. member had said, that the government had now for the first time discovered that relief for the country Was to be derived from the remission of taxes; but surely ministers had contended; as loudly as the hon. member himself, that the House could not be too eager to repeal taxes, provided they did it upon a sound principle. He would not, however, be a party to so gross a delusion as to hold out, that even this large reduction of two millions, in addition to the reduction of a million and a half in the malt duty, which followed close on the repeal of the agricultural horse tax, would be likely to
 749
 Mr. Hutchinson  could not withhold the expression of his satisfaction and congratulation for measures so well calculated to give relief. He was most grateful for the remission of the Irish window tax, and also for the relief which in the leather tax would follow. With respect to the salt tax, he wished the whole had been reduced; but he trusted that the operation of the arrangement on the subject of foreign salt would not affect injuriously the provision trade of Ireland.
 Mr. Wilson  said, he considered the present proposition as nothing more or less than a loan; indeed it was worse than a loan, as it trenched upon the sinking fund. It went to borrow from year to year, instead of being fixed on a long annuity. He was, however, quite gratified at the remission of taxes, particularly that portion of it, which so peculiarly affected the shipping interest.
 Mr. Maberly  disapproved of the financial part of the scheme, which was, in point of fact, creating a loan for the purpose of reducing taxation. This was not a legitimate mode of effecting such an object, whilst there remained another, an
 755 l. l.,
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  did not object to the selection of the taxes to be repealed, but thought a reduction or repeal of the window tax in England would have been most desirable. With regard to the annuity scheme, it was objectionable, because it enabled government to take off taxes without a correspondent reduction of expenditure, and removed the burthen; from our own shoulders to those of posterity; Who were already loaded by our improvident wars with a debt of nearly 800,000,000 l. l.
 Mr. R. Martin  expressed his surprise that the attorney-general had not assigned any reasons for opposing the bill. The learned gentleman ought to have done so, if not in courtesy to the member who brought the measure forward, at least on account of its having received the approbation of a large portion of the inhabitants of the country. The learned gentleman had placed himself in opposition to the common sense of the whole nation. The magistracy of London and Middlesex had spoken in an articulate manner in favour of the measure. It had received the support of clergymen who did honour to their calling. There was not a pulpit in London that had not spoken in a pronounced manner in approbation of it. It had been asserted by the advocates of cruelty, that the bill did not define in what cruelty to animals consisted. But, could any one define what was called excessive correction of an apprentice? He would not object to a horse being beaten; but he would protect the animal from being inhumanly treated. The utmost penalty which his bill provided for the most flagrant case of inhumanity towards an animal, was three month's imprisonment, or the payment of a fine of 5 l.
 The Attorney General  observed, that he had had an opportunity, in the course of the last session, of explaining the reasons for his objecting to a measure of this description.
 Mr. Cripps  supported the proposition of ministers, and congratulated the country on the reduction of taxation.
 Captain Maberly  said, he had no objection to either of the plans then before the House, but was of opinion that the plan proposed by the hon. member for Montrose was the most effectual and economical.
 Lord John Russell  observed, that as it was on all sides admitted, that there could be no sinking fund unless there was a surplus of revenue over the expenditure; and as they were now, after baying resolved that there should be a sinking fund pf five millions, about to remit two millions of taxes, it was incontrovertible in arithmetic, that the sinking fund could not; exceed three millions. The present plan was to be in operation for fifteen years—that was, the taxes were to be lightened, but the remission was to be met by continual loans for fifteen years. During that time the sinking fund would not, be in operation. If the country should be involved in war, the loans we should be obliged to make must, according to their equal or greater amount, altogether destroy the sinking fund. It was manifest that the sinking fund proposed in the early part of the session, was for the purpose of facilitating a recent financial operation; for the moment it was effected, the very minister who proposed the former resolution, proposed a plan to break down that
 757
 Mr Alderman Smith  expressed himself inimical to the bill.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he was most ready to commend the conduct of ministers where he found it prudent and proper; and in the proposed remission of taxes he thought they had acted judiciously in listening to the general prayer of the people. But, when he offered this commendation, he must decline concurring in any terms of excessive gratitude. He confessed, that he owed no gratitude to ministers for giving the people what was, in fact, their own money, If, indeed, the ministers had framed any plan for giving the people any portion of money which did not really belong to them, then would be the time to offer them fervent gratitude. But he thought that ministers, in coming down with all that earnestness to announce the remission of taxes, had not dealt quite fairly with the House. It looked as if they wished to induce the House to assent to those parts of their proposition which were bad, under the cover of those parts which were good. Now, he thought it was the
 754
 Mr. Davenport  congratulated the House on the great remission of taxes which had been announced. He begged to suggest, as the salt duty was to terminate in January next, that much relief would be afforded to the dairy farmers, who consumed great quantities in cheese and butter, if it were taken off in the present year.
 Mr. Littleton  suggested, that it was expedient to introduce a clause into the bill for encouraging the sale of beer of a diminished strength.
 Colonel Trench  thought, that the brewers of London had too long enjoyed the monopoly of their trade.
 Mr. Bright  observed, that the fisheries would not feel the benefit of the repeal, if it was merely partial, and would therefore be dissatisfied. Another class of persons who had great interest in the removal of the whole tax, were the linen bleachers of Ireland; and he would submit whether it would not be right to remove the pressure from the staple manufacture of the sister kingdom. He rejoiced that the tonnage duty was also removed, as it would be of great advantage to the commercial interests.
 Mr. Brougham  considered it a measure of the first necessity, to break down the present system of licensing public houses, although in doing so, care should be taken to injure as little as possible, the vested capital of the brewers. He did not think that if the number of public houses were larger than at present, the amount of tippling would be increased. As well might it be contended, that, in a private party, the quantity of liquor that would be drank would depend upon the number of glasses placed on the table. He could see no objection to throwing open at once the retail trade in beer. At present, no
 736
 Mr. H. Gurney  said, he could by no means participate in the cheers and congratulations which he heard all around him; and he was afraid the House, if he might be allowed the expression, would find itself in a fool's paradise. In fact, the propositions of the chancellor of the exchequer were, in his mind, the most alarming symptoms of the times—the adoption ea system marking, and fraught with ruin; an increase of debt, accompanied by a decrease of revenue—the precise proceeding which had been the index and forerunner of the bankruptcy of all nations. As to the total; remission of the window tax to Ireland, he could by no means comprehend why the large house of a great proprietor in that country should be exempted from a burthen, which was borne by what was almost a cottage in England and Scotland; though there might be a very valid reason for their exempting rather a better species of house than was exempt here.
 General Gascoyne  adverted to the present state of the shipping interest, and said, he experienced, great pleasure at finding that it had not been neglected. The right hon. gentleman deserved the gratitude of the country, for the equal manner in which he had distributed relief to different classes and descriptions of individuals.
 Mr. J. Benett  said, he would rather see the whole of the salt tax taken away, and the leather tax left as it was, than both reduced, but still retaining the expense of collection. He rejoiced in the reductions that were made, but hoped they would not have a tendency to relax the endeavours of members to push the principle of economy still further.
 Mr. Curwen  could not refrain from expressing his satisfaction at the selection of taxes to be remitted. The effects of the remission of the salt tax would be greater than were calculated upon. He was, however, anxious that the whole duty on rock salt should be remitted; for then agriculture would be greatly relieved, and trade inconceivably increased. What was proposed to be done would, he was persuaded, give general satisfaction to the country.
 Mr. J. Martin  preferred the amendment, on account of its greater clearness and simplicity. It was a palpable joggle to talk of having a sinking fund at a time that we were borrowing money to defray the expenses of our ordinary establishments.
 Mr. Hume  said, that no member of that House could be more pleased with the remission of two millions of taxation than he felt much surprised at the
 750 s. s. s. l. l., l. l. l. l. 751 s. s. s. d. s. d. s., l. 752 l.
 Mr. Hume  thought it would be expedient to adopt the licensing system practised in Scotland, under which no monopoly existed.
 Mr. Hume  could see no reason why the trade in beer should not be thrown open.
 Mr. Carew  felt many objections to the bill which the hon. member for Shrewsbury had introduced.
 Mr. Huskisson denied that the plan was any infringement upon the principle of the sinking fund: on the contrary, it was one which must keep up the public credit, and be of peculiar service in the present situation of the country. He joined, therefore, in the general congratulations of the House, and was surprised to hear the epithet of "frauds and tricks" applied to any part of the arrangement. If any man had an annuitant for life attached to his estate, what fraud would there be in offering him a proportionate equivalent for a term of years? His right hon. friend bath assumed, and he was correct in that assumption, that supposing the present amount of annuities to be in existence for a certain specific time, and supposing the country would have to maintain the ordinary charges for the navy, army, and other expenditure, and even contemplating a few years of ordinary war, still the amount of debt charged would not exceed
 756 l.
 Mr. W. Smith  regretted that the whole tax on salt was not remitted, in order to save the expellee of collection, and wished the whole of the leather tax was repealed also. With respect to the amendment, he was surprised that the point should not be given up by ministers; for nothing could be more clear to any rational mind than that there could be no sinking fund but what arose from the surplus of revenue above the expenditure, best course therefore, was, to take from the sinking fund without disguise, and in a manner
 753
 Mr. W. Williams  denied, that the sinking fund had been maintained inviolate, and contended that it was now too late to
 758
 Sir B. Shaw  expressed the great pleasure he felt at the repeal of the Irish window tax.
 Sir J. Newport  rejoiced at the repeal of the window tax, arid was also happy that the hearth tax was given up, not on account of its magnitude, but because it was extremely disagreeable to the feelings of the people, who viewed it as a badge of slavery. The financial plan appeared to him more desirable in its present shape than if it had been effected by means of a body of contractors.
 Mr. Barham  complained of the course taken by the hon. gentleman, on a former night, in moving that House be counted, and by that means smothering the measure of his hon. friend, (Mr. Allen). If his hon. friend's measure had been suffered to go to a committee, the House would then have had the two plans before them. He could not help thinking that his hon. friend had been ill used.
 Mr. Peel  maintained, that nothing could be further from the intention of hon. gentlemen on his side of the House, than to show any want of courtesy to the hon. member for Pembroke. The hon. member for Durham had moved the adjournment of the debate for a fortnight on the night alluded to. The motion for counting the House, therefore, had produced no other result than would have been produced, had the motion for and adjournment been persisted in.
 Mr. Denman  said, the question on which a difference had arisen, was not as to adjourning the debate to any particular day, but to the appointment of committee to which the resolutions of his hon. friend and the whole subject might be referred. The present bill supplied a remedy to trivial evils, but did not meet any of the great objections against the present system of Welch judicature. He thought it would be better that the subject should go off altogether till next session, than that such a measure should be adopted.
 Mr. Grenfell  rose to present a petition from several highly respectable individuals in the country of Berks, relative to a negotiation said to be pending between government and the Bank of England, for the renewal of the Bank charter. To the extension of that monopoly, which would expire in 1833, he had the strongest objection; and the petitioners were of the same way of thinking; but they objected more strongly to the relaxing of the restrictive law as to the number of partners engaged in country banks—to the relaxing of that law in places more than 65 miles form London, and continuing it in places within that limit. Now, whenever the measure for renewing the charter came before the House, he should feel it his duty to oppose it. Indeed, after the experience which the country had had of the conduct of the Bank during the last 20 years—after their immense profits, amounting in 25 years (after the payment of 7 per cent dividend) to more than 25,000,000 l. 761
 Mr. Dundas  supported the prayer of the petition, and remarked upon the loss which had been sustained by the failure of country banks in Berkshire.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, the natural moment was not arrived for the discussion of the question, which was too large to be settled on the mere reception of a petition, to which there was no sort of objection.
 Captain Maberly  opposed the bill, as producing too violent an alteration in the poor laws. Though the system of removal might be sometimes oppressive to the poor, yet the proposed alteration would he exceedingly oppressive to the rich. The comparatively light pressure in sonic places did not proceed froth any restraint on the free circulation of labour, but from the vigilance of those who superintended the poor, and the prevalence of industrious and frugal habits.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  complimented the hon. and learned gentleman, who had just sat down, on the ability and knowledge which he had displayed on this interesting subject, and congratulated the House on the fact, that it was a subject which had never been discussed with any thing like party feeling. On the contrary, there had never been but one object in view, which was, to resolve the difficult problem of relieving the country from the evils attendant on the existing system. The present discussion tended to show how unfair it was to call on his majesty's government to embark in a measure of this kind when it appeared that even the hon. and learned author of the bill, with all his legal knowledge and research, found himself compelled to abandon two out of the three propositions originally embraced in his bill, and experienced great difficulty with respect to the details of the third. To the principle or the bill, every man must be favourable. The only doubt was as to the mode in which that principle could best be carried into effect. In the present state of the bill it appeared to him that bands of paupers might traverse the country, and obtain what would be very like a right of settlement wherever they might find themselves in especial want of aid. That was an evil which, in his opinion, ought not to be permitted. Without going further into the details of the new bill, he would simply state that it appeared to him to be calculated to promote litigation to an unexampled extent, and to create great additional expense, instead of furthering the cause of economy. He wished the hon. and learned gentleman to find out sonic plan to disarm his bill or the evils which it was certain to create, if the principle of it was pushed
 778
 Colonel Wood  said, he should cordially vote for the second reading, and heartily thanked the learned gentleman for bring-
 779
 Mr. Ricardo  did not complain of the Bank directors for making the concern as profitable as possible; but he complained of ministers for having made such improvident bargains with the Bank, as to enable that establishment to make those enormous profits. He should oppose to the utmost the renewal of the Bank charter, because he was satisfied that every farthing made by the Bank ought to belong to the public. Even if a paper currency were wanted, ministers could accomplish the object more advantageously for the public without, than with the assistance of the Bank of England.
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  opposed the bill, though he was in favour of some alteration in the system of the poor-laws.
 Mr. Mansfield  said, that his constituents were strongly opposed to the measure, and in that opposition he concurred with them. He believed, that if curried into effect, it would operate with a multiplied pressure, not only on those who were relieved. He therefore felt it his duty to move as an amendment, "That the bill be read a second time this day six months."
 Mr. Monck  declared his conviction, that the present measure was brought forward with the purest and best intentions, and with the hope of redressing the many evils which flowed from the system of poor-laws. Indeed, so long as these laws existed, great abuses would prevail, and the lamentable truth was, that in every discussion on the subject the House was reduced to a choice of evils. But he must be allowed to say, that the evils of the present system were comparatively small, when contrasted with that mass of abuse which would be engendered by the operation of the present bill, if carried into effect. The principle of the measure was not new—it had been tried in this country before; but the inconveniencies and abuses it produced made its repeal imperative. It was first introduced in the reign of Elizabeth, and continued until the 13th of Charles the second, when the inconveniencies felt, in consequence of the overflow of paupers from country parishes into towns and rich districts, where there was plenty of stock, were so abandon the system. If such were the abuses in the simple state of society in those times, how much more aggravated much they be if that system was renewed under our present complex condition? The present average amount of the poor-rate, was 15 s. s. 774 l. l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Monck  contended, that the Bank had a monopoly in effect, if not in fact, seeing that the private banks could not compete with the favoured Chartered companies. With regard to the bargains between government and the Bank, he thought they were just upon the terms of a spendthrift add it usurer—the former being obliged consent to anything that the latter required.
 Mr. Pearse  defended the Bank of England, and asserted that they had no monopoly, since it was in the power of any of the London bankers to issue notes if they thought fit to do so.
 Mr. Nolan  began by alluding to a remark that had been made, that the poor had no representatives in that House. He could not suffer such an observation to pass without maintaining that there was no class of his majesty's subjects whose interests were not represented there—and there was no class to whom greater attention had at all times been paid than to the poor. Great acknowledgments were due to his hon. and learned friend for the very able, candid, and ingenious manner in which he bad introduced the subject; and though he might differ from him as to the remedy proposed, yet he thought this advantage, at least, would result from the discussion of the question—that it would set the public mind to work upon it, and that no inconsiderable benefit might be derived from that source. It had been said, that the subject was one which ought to have been taken up by his majesty's ministers. Now, he did not think they were bound to take it up. As a measure interesting to all classes, it was open to the consideration of, and might be introduced by, any member who felt himself competent to the task. One general objection to the measure which he had was this—even if he thought favourably of it, he should hesitate to estabish it as a law when he found so many petitions against it from every part of the country, and so general an opinion against its practical effects. Another objection was, that the measure was partial, and left wholly out, of consideration the general system of the poor-laws with all its defects. When his hon. and learned friend introduced his former bill, he observed that it was complicated, but that every part of it depended on the other; but now he abandoned all the parts except that which referred to the removal of paupers, without any reference to how they wore to be supported. It had been
 777
 Mr. P. Moore  said, he concurred in the unanimous sentiments of his constituents in opposition to the bill.
 Mr. T. Courtenay  felt considerable apprehensions in rising to oppose a measure introduced under the authority of the hon. and learned gentleman, in speech so well calculated to make a considerable impression. That speech appeared to him, however, more particularly to apply to a bill which some sessions back had been brought forward by a right hon. friend of his, the chairman of the poor-laws committee (Mr. S. Bourne), which was
 775
 Mr. Denman  objected to the principle altogether, and cautioned the House against favouring it so far as to permit it to be read a second time.
 Sir C. Burrell  defended the habits of the poor in Sussex, and the disposition of the farmers of that county, to do all in their power to relieve their wants. The poor-laws required extensive amendment; and he thought the hon. and learned member entitled to great thanks for having bestowed so much attention on the subject.
 Mr. Manning  defended the conduce of the Bank, and treated the charge of tyranny as invidious and unfounded. He also denied that the profits of the Bank were unreasonable, referring to the very large additions the Royal Exchange Insurance Company had made to their capital in consequence of their great profits during the war.
 Mr. Chetwynd  said, that as the present system of poor-laws was one of the greatest curses under which the country laboured, its gratitude was due to every gentleman who suggested the means of amending them. After complimenting his hon. and learned friend on the exertions he had made upon this subject, he proceeded to say, that though he would not go the whole length of abolishing the law of settlement, he was still aware that some alteration in it was absolutely necessary. After pointing out several inconveniencies which accrued from it, not only to parishes but individuals, he proceeded to attack the present system of bastardy laws; and contended, that that system was calculated to promote vice and immorality, inasmuch as a women with three of four bastards was enabled to live in ease and idleness form the allowance she drew from the father of her children for their maintenance; whilst a married woman, with the same family, use obliged to work hard before she could obtain a similar relief from the parish in which she had a settlement. He should vote for the second reading of the bill, as all the objections he had to it might be removed in the committee.
 Mr. Scarlett  expressed, his readiness tot make such alterations in the committee, as he hoped would do away the different objections that had been urged against it.
 Mr. Scarlett,  in rising move the second reading of
 762 763 764 765 766 767 l. l. 768 s. l. l. l. l. l. 769 770 771 l. 772 l. l.
 Mr. J. Shelley  said, he was afraid that, in the present state of the country, the land itself would not long be able to keep the poor along with the payment of rent and taxes. Some remedy should be applied, and therefore he would support the measure.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that great in-
 776
 Sir R. Wilson  approved of the principle of the bill, but hoped it would receive some modifications in the committee.
 Mr. Coke  rose to present a petition from the hundred of North Greenhoe in the county of Norfolk, complaining of agricultural distress, and praying for a Reform of Parliament. The petition set forth, that taxation was the cause of their distress, and that the enormous sums raised by it were lavished to increase the influence of the Crown, by maintaining a corrupt majority in that House, once to keep up a large standing army for no other purpose than that of subduing the constitutional feelings of a justly indignant people. It stated, that the majority of the House was always ready to support any administration, however corrupt and tyrannical. The hon. member expressed, his concurrence in the prayer of the petition; and moved, that it do lie on table.
 Mr. Fremantle  though the language of the petition was most insulting to the House, and moved, that it be rejected.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the tone of the petition was not only a tone of remonstrance but of insult, and the thought that the House, with a due regard to its own character, could not receive it.
 Mr. Calcraft  could see nothing in the petition which was adverse to its being received. What it contained had often been repeated in that House, and doubtless would be again. Were they not accustomed to say that taxation was grievous? Was it not a fact that pensions and useless offices were kept up, by which many members were under the direct influence of the Crown? With regard to the standing army, he had always said that it was greater than was necessary for proper purposes; and it had been used, in some instances, under very suspicious circumstances. He thought his hon. friend had displayed a little too much zeal in moving for the rejection of the petition.
 Mr. Wynn  had always considered that a petition ought not to be rejected upon any particular expressions or words which it might contain, but upon the general spirit in which it was drawn up. If he looked at the general spirit of the present petition, he thought it was plainly intended to menace and insult the House. It was a justification of rebellion, and it was received, the House, could never after venture to reject any other petition.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, there was a point of form which struck him as being
 781 animus
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that should the amendment be rejected he intended to propose a clause similar to that proposed in 1786 by Mr. Fox. It would be a clause empowering the commissioners the reduction of the national debt to apply the monies in their hands to the purchase of these annuities.
 Colonel Davies  could see no distinction whatever between the measure proposed and a direct invasion of the sinking fund. At all events, if the thing was to be done, let it be done in the way most advantageous to the country. Place the commissioners of the sinking fund in the shoes of the parties, who were to become purchasers; and then, at the end of the 45 years, the public would reap the benefit of the bargain.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was inclined to acquiesce in the suggestion of the hon. member for Penryn.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, it
 784 l. l.
 Mr. Calcrtyft  considered the chancellor of the exchequer to be at that moment in too pitiable a plight for any generous mind
 "Parcere subjectis" l. l. l. 785
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think it necessary to trouble the House with, any observations upon this amendment, as it was substantially the same with that which had just been negatived. l.,
 Sir J. Sebright  said it would be of great relief to the agricultural interest that the tax should be taken off before the autumn, because then the greatest quantity of cattle was killed and salted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  objected to the amendment, on the ground that there could be no material alteration, in the existing financial arrangements without breaking clown the system altogether. It the whole of the salt tax were repealed, either some new tax must be imposed to supply the deficiency, or the integrity of the sinking fund must be invaded [A laugh!]. Did gentlemen mean by that laugh, that the resolution which had recently been agreed to, trenched on the sinking fund? If so, the House ought to adhere with the more pertinacity to what remained. But he denied that the resolution in question involved any incroachment on the sinking fund. If, however, this amendment was adopted, the present surplus of the income over the expenditure, on which the existing sinking fund was founded, would be diminished. With respect to the proposition, as viewed with reference to its effect on the community, he believed, that the remission of 13 s. s. s. s. s., s. s. s. l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that any stranger who had heard the learned gentleman, would really Suppose that his right hon. friend was so fond of laying on taxes, and so inimical to taking them off, that he had preached a lecture to the House on the delights and the utility of taxation. Now, he would appeal to the House, whether his right hon. friend had invariably declared, that whenever taxes could be remitted without detriment to the public credit, it would be a great relief to the country to remit them? What his right hon. friend had argued against was, the assertion of the learned gentleman, that taxes should be taken off to such an amount as immediately to remove the agricultural distress. The learned gentleman contended, that if the remission of five or six millions of taxes did not relieve that distress (which he very well knew it would not), the remission, ought to proceed farther. His right hon. friend, the contrary, maintained that the remission could not proceed so far; and  à fortiori, 788
 Mr. Calcraft  allowed that the chancellor of the exchequer's proposition went in the first instance farther than his (Mr. C's.) had done. But it should be recollected, that his ultimate object had been the annihilation of the tax, although he was obliged to suit his primary proposition to the palate of those to whom it was made. To make the residue of the tax productive, it must, be extended to the fisheries, than which nothing could be more injurious.
It would be in vain otherwise to expect an increase of consumption at the rate of 50 per cent on an article of the first necessity. It was evident that on the ground of constitutional principle, it would be better to get rid of the tax altogether. While any part of it remained, the people would suspect, that on the occurrence of any necessity for raising money, it would be restored to its present magnitude. It was well worthy of the consideration of a financial minister, that the repeal of the tax in question would afford the people the means of indulging in the consumption, of other exciseable commodities; so that, the revenue would not suffer.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that the agriculturists had been so completely ground already, that he must take the liberty of opposing this grinding clause, in whatever shape it appeared. Nothing was more likely to promote the introduction into

 Mr. Western  would acquiesce in the clause, if security could be given that the corn reduced to flour should not be brought into home consumption; and he was disposed to think that such security might be given.
 Mr. Whitmore  said, that the bill had two objects—to raise the price of corn in this country above the level of other countries, and to induce the agriculturists to grow a sufficient quantity of corn for the whole supply of the country. He decidedly objected to both these proposals. In a country densely peopled like this, it was necessary, that much of the supply should be obtained from other countries. Without, imports we could not expect to; have exports. It was true that of late we
 789 s. s. s. s.
 Mr. Wodehouse,  instead of agreeing to reduce the import price to 64 s. s. s.
 Mr. Bankes  then moved an amendment, that the importation duty should be paid
 790
 Mr. Robinson  saw no sufficient reason for adopting the amendment. It would have the effect of preventing the warehousing of corn under any circumstances.
 Mr. Marryat  contended, that the amendment was in opposition to the whole warehousing system of this country.
 Mr. Ricardo  expressed his surprise at the proposition of the hon. member for Norfolk; since the most active supporters of the agricultural interest had declared that 67 s.
 Mr. Ricardo  agreed, that if the clause could not be introduced with a full security against the flour coming into the home market it ought not to be admitted; but, if that security could be found, it would be most unjust to deprive the holders of foreign corn of it. He thought the bill of the noble lord would be a great improvement on the present law. The hon. member for Cumberland founded all his arguments on the value of corn in pounds sterling; but he (Mr. R.) did not regard the pound sterling. He was anxious that the people should have an abundant supply of corn and an increase of their comforts, and he thought a greater freedom in the trade calculated to produce those effects. He differed entirely from the hon. member, as to the ill effects which it would have upon the demand for labour.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it was asserted by ministers that the annuity scheme was no infringement on the principle of the sinking fund. If so, instead of forty-five let the period of that scheme be extended to fifty or sixty years, and that would afford a sufficient sum to enable parliament to remit the whole of the salt duty.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the plan was neither more nor less than sending one set of commissioners into the market to sell stock, mid another set into the market to buy stock; and even the chancellor of the exchequer now understood that fact so fully, that he was about to support a clause which would enable these two sets of commissioners to deal with one another. And here he would remind the House of an expression used by the right hon. gentleman on first bringing forth his plan. The right hon. gentleman then assured the House, that he was not so young in office, as to make a proposal to parliament unless he had good ground to believe that he could make a bargain upon the terms which he stated. And what had the right bon, gentleman done since? Why, he had been forced to tell the House, that there had been an error in his calculations—that he had never supposed that he could make a bargain with any body for 2,800,000 l., l. l. l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Canning  rose, to move an instruction to the committee, the subject of which, he said, was not new to the House, having been introduced to its attention in a petition from the holders of foreign corn at, Liverpool. It was undoubtedly a great object to get rid of the accumulation of foreign corn, and the holders entertained, the hope, that if it were ground into flour there would be an opportunity of exporting it to the West Indies or some other place, and it was wished that permission should be given that it might be taken out for the purpose of being ground for exportation, and failing of exportation, that it might be returned into warehouse. The first regulation would be, that the person taking out foreign corn should enter into bond to return even a larger than the usual proportion of flour. It might be permitted to remain for the chance of exportation a certain time, say six weeks, and then be returned into bond, and not suffered to come out for home consumption until the ports were opened. He would move, "that it be an instruction to the committee, that they have power to make provision in the bill to allow the taking of foreign corn out of warehouse, for the purpose of being ground into flour, for exportation."
 Mr. Brougham  congratulated the House on the great light which had broken in upon the right hon. gentleman's mind since the commencement of the session. The right hon. gentleman had then talked as, if no relief could be experienced by the country from any remission taxation. Nay, the right hon. gentleman had
 s. s. s. l. l., l. 787 l.,
 Mr. Brougham  said, that as light alteration of words would make the plan of the right hon. gentleman and that of his hon. friend precisely the same. The right hon. gentleman proposed two sets of commissioners; one for reducing the national debt and the other for increasing it. Why not save the trouble of bringing one set of them into existence? At present here was a set ready made to their hands to grown up and in full maturity. They were precisely of the same cast as that of the set proposed to be created. The present commissioners might sit on the same day and at the same place in their united capacity, and might be empowered to deal in the stock. The plan for double commissioners was a senseless, degrading mummery; and it was merely proposed to make it be though that the right hon. gentleman was really not touching the sinking fund. He should therefore
 783
 General Gascoyne  was of opinion that the reduced duty would be much more productive than was anticipated. He was satisfied with the diminution proposed.
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, characterized the Salt tax as the most mischievous of all imposts. He hoped it would be entirely got rid of, and that, no longer existing as a  nucleus
 Mr. J. Benett  contended, that there was little or no analogy between the warehousing of corn and other articles.
 Mr. Curwen  observed, that there was another inconvenience by the mode proposed, as the poor people who laid in their salt would incur a great loss. For his part he was induced to move the taking off the whole tax [Cheers]. If it was necessary that the government should have the 250,000 l.
 Mr. Curwen  said, the truth of some of the allegations in the petition could not be dented. It was notorious that seats in that House were bought and sold like cattle at Smithfield market. It could not
 780
 Mr. J. Smith  did not believe many of the allegations contained in the petition, the one with regard to the army was together false. But he felt considerable difficulty in rejecting a petition of this kind; and he was determined not to do so by what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman who had lately accepted office. The right hon. gentleman had said, that before rejecting a petition they ought to be satisfied that there was an intended insult and this had not been made out in the present case. He believed there were many persons who thought every word in this petition be true. He, however, did not think so, and he knew the part which related to the army, to be grossly false.
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not blame the chancellor of the exchequer for touching; the sinking fund, but he blamed him for talking one way and acting another. It was most inconsistent to buy and sell annuities at the same time. It was a roundabout way of doing that which might easily be simplified. It was better to proceed simply and honestly in the management of our finances, and to free them from complexity. He therefore moved as an amendment, "that it is expedient to take from the Sinking Fund and annual sum equal to the amount of taxation to be remitted, towards relieving the distresses of the country instead of raising money by Loan, or Annuities, as is proposed to be done by the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the payment of Military and Naval Half-pay and Pensions."
 Mr. Hume  said, that after what had just occurred, the next thing for the House to do was, to endeavour to persuade ministers to carry the complex operation of their plan into effect as beneficially to the public as possible. He thought that this would be best done by the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt advancing the annual payments for a number of years, and afterwards repaying themselves, as the annuities to be paid decreased in amount. Such a plan would have the effect of relieving taxation at the present time, and might be carried into effect without the loss of a single penny to the country. He would therefore move to leave out all the words of the original resolution after the word "that," and to insert the following in their place: "That it is the opinion of this House, that, for the purpose of apportioning, conformably to the resolution of the 3rd of May last, the burthens of the naval and military pensions, it is expedient that the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt be authorised and required to
 786
 Mr. James  rose to notice a mistake into which the petitioners had fallen. It was not to keep up the influence, of the Crown, that such lavish acts were committed, and, he thought it almost high treason to say so. It was to maintain, the unjust influence of the boroughmongers.
 Sir. R. Wilson  said, that the hon. gentleman could not, as a man of honour, deny that seats in that House were bought and sold, to his own knowledge. He thought the petition ought to be received.
 Sir J. Newport  thought they were bound to open as far as possible the doors of the House to the petitions of the people. By so doing they would best consult the dignity of the House. To a large proportion of what was contained in the petition he gave his assent. There were some words in it which he regretted; but they ought not to be scrupulous about expressions in a time of distress like the present.
 Sir J. Newport  had no objection to the clause, on the understanding that proper means: would be applied to prevent the flour from being brought into home consumption.
 Mr. Courtenay  said, that though he concurred in the general principles laid down by his hon. and learned friend, he could not accede to the resolution. Nothing could be more improper than to set the public mind afloat on the subject for six or twelve months, without doing any thing for so long a period to remedy the evil. As there was a committee now sitting, whose labours were directed to that end, he did not see how the House could come to any resolution which imputed neglect. The present proposition would not advance the practical reform of our criminal code, and therefore if the question was pressed to a division, he should vote against it.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that he concurred in what had been stated with respect to the committee for the reformation of prison discipline. Their exertions were above all praise, being dictated by the soundest policy, and likely to lead to the most beneficial results. It was his intention, on Friday next, to submit to the House a bill which went to provide for the regulation of prison discipline. Was it possible, then, for him to support a measure which was to pledge the House to take into its consideration a subject, which had been already delayed too long? The question of transportation was one which presented many difficulties. As it would, however, be materially affected by the forthcoming bill for the improvement of prison discipline, he should refrain from saying any thing about it at present. He also concurred in the propriety of adopting a vigorous system of police. God forbid that he should mean to countenance a system of espionage; but a vigorous preventive police, consistent with the free principles, of our free
 804
 Mr. Wynn  earnestly recommended the hon. and learned gentleman to withdraw his motion; at all events in its present form.
 The Attorney General  trusted, that opposing the present motion, his hon. and learned friend would not consider him as adverse to any alteration in our criminal laws. It was certain that almost all the ameliorations in our criminal code had been introduced by gentlemen of his profession. It was therefore erroneous to suppose that the profession were opposed to any improvement in the state of our laws. He for one would not be favourable to capital punishment in any case where it could be shown that it might be safely dispensed with. He, however, could not consent to motion which went to pledge the House to a measure which would cast a censure on the whole of our criminal law. The motion was the less necessary, as no specific measure was to be founded upon it this session; and such a sweeping declaration would, he thought, put the government and the criminal law in a situation in which they ought not to be placed. What had been the course hitherto pursued by his hon. and learned friend? He had first of all proposed the appointment of a committee to take into examination the whole state of the criminal law. Such a committee was accordingly appointed, and subsequently presented a report to the House, recommending that, in particular cases, capital punishment should be abolished, and a secondary punishment substituted in its stead. Upon that report his hon. and learned friend brought into the House certain bills to carry that recommendation into effect. The House adopted some of them, but rejected others; notwithstanding which, his hon. and learned friend said, that the House had, on that occasion, adopted the same principle indirectly which he called upon it by his resolution to adopt formally at present. The proper course for his hon. and learned friend to have pursued was to have again brought forward those measures which the report of the committee had recommended, order that, the House might see the remedies which it was intended to apply to the grievances complained of; but, instead of doing this, his hon. and learned friend had left the House entirely in the dark regarding his intentions, except, indeed, with regard to
 799 s. 800
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, that at so late an hour he should not have risen to address the House, were it not for some of the minor points which had been touched Upon in the course of this discussion. If the present motion went merely to affect the law as applicable to capital offences, he should have rested its merits upon the able speech of his hon. and learned friend; but upon the minor points to which his hon. and learned friend had adverted, he begged permission to make a few observations. It was curious and essential, in looking at this subject, to consider the operation of the existing law, and how far the prevailing punishments were rendered available in practice. Upon a reference to the returns of committals and Convictions in Ireland, he found that the number of committals in one year for offences not capital, were 6,000; for offences that were capital, 2,500. Of the former, the convictions were in the proportion of one-half, and of the latter only one-seventh. The same inquiry would lead to nearly the same result—though not perhaps to the same extent—in England. In Ireland he might also mention that the committals for minor offences were 3,700, of whom 3,000 were convicted. In England experience showed that when a man was tried on a capital charge, his chances of escape were double, in comparison with what it would be, were he indicted upon the minor charge. And in America, when the capital was mitigated, the acquittals were only at the rate of 1 to 7, although before the alteration in the severity of the law they always equalled the convictions. In the year 1818, the number of persons sentenced to death or transportation were 3,306, of whom 100 only were executed. The greater part of the been transported. Upon the punishment of transportation it was only necessary for
 801 802 l., insula nobilis et amena, 803
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he would have no hesitation to adopt the suggestion of his right hon. friend, if he did not feel it necessary to retain that part of his resolution which went to pledge the House to adopt measures for increasing the efficacy of the criminal law by mitigating rigour. The resolution pledged the House to no principles but those which they had session after session recognized, therefore no injury could possibly follow the adoption of his resolution. By entertaining it, the House would give a proof of their intention seriously to adopt measures for the amendment of the criminal code. They would thus invite persons of knowledge and experience to lay their sentiments upon the subject before parliament. The resolution would, in fact, serve as a notice, as well to the profession of the law, as to all others, to supply that House
 805
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose, to entreat the attention of the House to that very important subject, the criminal law of the country; and the felt that in mooting a question already so often discussed, he should have occasion for the patience and for the indulgence of honourable members. The fact of the repeated discussion of the subject—that fact alone—impressed upon him the difficulty of his task; but he was also aware, that the very nature of the question was calculated to do any thing rather than to excite general interest in the House. The question, however important to the community at large, touched, at no point, the interests of any particular class: it neither promoted the views of any party, nor could it be rendered subservient to the ambition of any individual: it formed no field for that kind of personal contest in the House which was the principal amusement of the parliamentary bystander; nor was it likely to produce any of those more serious contests between bodies of gentlemen threatened with ruin, and ministers compelled to defend their own measures, which the House had unfortunately heard so often during the present session. Not one of those various and opposite kinds of interest belonged to the subject upon which he had now to treat; but the deep importance of the subject had left him, in his own feelings, no choice but to undertake it. Under the difficulty which attached to the handling of a question so repeatedly discussed, he was sustained by the numerous and respectably-signed petitions which had been presented to the House. Those petitions, attested as to their value by the hon. members who presented them, spoke the deliberate opinion, the decided feeling of a great majority of the enlightened and reflecting inhabitants of England; and he, standing upon the foundation of public opinion and about to examine a question which no one could deny to be of the very first importance, claimed excuse if he asked that same patient attention from the House with which he had been honoured upon former occasions. At such an advanced period of the year, he could have no hope of introducing a bill to be passed during the present session. Any proposal to that effect, at such a time, would be unreasonable; and he had been prevented, partly by the course of public business, partly by a sense of the difficulty of his subject and partly by his own ill state of health, from bringing the matter forward at an earlier period. But although he had no hope of a full discussion of the subject in both Houses of parliament this year, he should hold it unpardonable if he did not make some effort to advance a cause which the community had so deeply at heart; and the therefore intended to propose a resolution to the House, merely affirming a general principle which he believed had already been recognized, and virtually adopted in various cases by the House, and by the legislature; and that resolution might serve as a basis for measures to be taken in the next session for the revision and reformation of British criminal law. 791 s. l. l. s. 792 793 794 s. arbitrium, judicis, s. experimentum crucis 795 796 797 798
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose for the purpose of moving, that the powers of the Alien act should be intrusted to the executive government for a period of two years longer. Even those who differed from him in opinion, would admit that he opened the question fairly, if he touched, first, upon the nature of the danger to which he proposed to apply a remedy; next, the character and extent of the remedy itself; and lastly, the various objections which, upon general principles of policy or apprehensions from abuse of power, might be started against the remedy. To begin, then, with the nature of the evil against which they had to provide. He recollected that he was proposing the continuance of an Alien bill at a time when the country had been seven years at peace, and after a declaration from the sovereign, that he continued to receive assurances of the favourable disposition of foreign powers. But every man who looked back to the events of the late war, the circumstances of the contest, and to the principles which had produced it—every one who dwelt upon the consequences by which that war had been attended—must admit, that it was not the mere signature of a treaty of peace, nor even the duration of a peace for seven years, that could extinguish the principles which had led to the tumult, or con, ciliate the various interests which had taken part in it. He denied that to provide a corrective for such an evil, was any imputation on the character of those relations of amity in which this country was bound with the other states of Eu-
 806 807 808 809 810
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he rose not for the purpose of travelling over again the same arguments which had been so forcibly adduced by his right hon. friend, but to protest against its being understood that he supported the bill upon any of the obnoxious grounds which it was convenient for gentlemen opposite to assume were the motives influencing that support. An hon. and learned gentleman (sir J. Mackintosh) had said, that he listened with sorrow and humiliation to the speech of his right hon. friend, and that he felt some alarm at seeing the dawn of his public life clouded by such a bill as this. The learned gentleman might express, it he pleased, these feelings of alarm; but he (lord L.), so far from participating with him in his view of that speech, saw nothing but a subject of congratulation at the prospect it held out of long and able and efficient services in the cause of the country. His right hon. friend had in that powerful speech, disclosed a character and a capability to exalt the liberties of his country, and to establish them upon a firm basis. He did not, indeed, like the gentlemen opposite, pursue a phantom and call it liberty, in the absence of all the qualifications belonging to real, rational liberty—a mock liberty, reared in the midst of bloodshed, and founded upon the ruins of empires. His right hon. friend understood liberty better. He understood it as he found it, as in England, raised upon a basis of internal tranquillity, and only secure and durable so long as it was allied with order and peace. For this country could not hope for tranquillity, nor deserve it, if it suffered its noble soil to become a public nuisance to Europe. The gentlemen opposite seemed to think that the larger the crop that could be collected from the malcontents of Europe, and deposited in England, the better. He thought differently. He would throw open their door widely for the reception of the petitions of the people. So would he the shores of England for
 822
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, his argument was, that if England permitted the free ingress of foreign conspirators and agitators, she would absolutely become a nuisance to all Europe.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that a learned gentleman (Mr. Denman) had declared, that he (Mr. Peel) was indebted to the other side of the House fork the candour and forbearance he had experienced at their hands. Of any want of candour and forbearance on the part of those hon. gentlemen, he never complained. But, what did the terms amount to, as they were explained by the learned gentleman? Why, to this—that he was indebted to their candour and forbearance for not having attacked him for his junction with his majesty's government. He must tell that learned gentleman, that there was nothing he deprecated so much as his charity; that he defied his scrutiny; that he was not afraid of his accusation. If that learned gentleman thought that he was awaiting his accusation, "with baited breath and whispering humbleness," he was very much deceived. He challenged him to bring forward the accusation which he insinuated he had in his pocket, but would not promulge. His motives in accepting office were as pure as those which had actuated the learned gentleman in doing so. He had been connected with the present government ever since his first appearance in public life. He was secretary to the lord lieutenant of Ireland—a post which he quitted earlier than he could have wished. As to his subsequent connexion with government, it arose not out of his own solicitation.
 824
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that if the bill was passed at all, it should be only for one year; but for himself, proposed as it was for no British purposes, he would not consent to its passing even for a month.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  said, that not concurring in the opinion of the gentlemen opposite, that this bill was dangerous to the liberties of England, or unfriendly to the hospitable consideration due to foreigners, it should have his support. Notwithstanding the denunciations of the gentlemen opposite, the people of England had manifested no hostility to the measure.
 Lord Stanley  could not be silent when he heard a minister of the Crown characterise the people of England as a nuisance to the rest of Europe. Where were refugees now to look for shelter? The creed which he had imbibed with his mother's milk, was this—that to the distressed and the persecuted of all the world, England was the land of protection.
 Mr. H. Twiss  contended, that the right of excluding strangers was one inherent in every state, and that its exercise ought not to be considered an act of injustice. A country which tolerated the residence of foreigners within its territories had a right to say, "You shall be treated as our subjects, as far as the protection of our laws goes; but we will consider you only as tenants at will, and you must depart whenever we think proper to give
 816 817
 Mr. Denman  said, he would give the bill in every stage, his unqualified opposition. One great and important question had been repeatedly put to ministers, and, had invariably been left unanswered; namely, where was the proof of the necessity of the bill? The call remained unanswered, and the necessity of the bill still rested upon the mere statement of the right hon. secretary, That right hon. gentleman had spoken as if he were alone the responsible administrator of the measure, and had forgotten that the whole of the three secretaries were equally invested with the powers it conferred. It was urged that there were only four cases in which this power had been recently exercised. But how did the House know the facts of these four cases? How did the right hon. secretary himself attain the information respecting them? He must entirely depend upon others, which was the evil of a measure, executed by a secret power, called into action by secret spies, and, in the whole of its progress, worked by clandestine machinery. The right hon. gentleman had made a strong appeal to the House to intrust him upon his own responsibility, with this bill. To such an appeal, he was compelled to reply, that it was it strong objection to the fitness of any man for office that he commenced his career by wishing to be invested with such a power. He wished, indeed, to have known the right hon. gentlemen's official career in Ireland connected with some wiser and better act than the suspension of the trial by jury; and he should have been better pleased to have seen him open his official career in England, without calling upon parliament to intrust him with such a measure as this. It gave him the deepest concern to have heard the free provisions of Magna Charta decried and depreciated in a British House of Commons. Notwithstanding the neglect of
 820 821
 Sir J. Mackintosh  observed, that he had felt the deepest anxiety and alarm on hearing that it was in contemplation to propose a renewal of the present measure. It could not but produce the deepest feeling of melancholy to find principles such as those proclaimed by the right hon. gentleman avowed to a House of Commons, or to any assembly of men accustomed to a free government. It was lamentable to find them made the ground of a legislative proceeding, by a minister of great talents, and of high character. The right hon. gentleman was thus furnishing them, not with an auspicious sample of the future benefits to be expected from his career, but marking the outset of an administration which would probably last longer than he (sir J. M.) should live, by an assertion of principles that, if pushed to their legitimate consequences, would subvert every law and every security which we now enjoyed. What was the tenour of this proceeding? It vested in the government a direct and absolute power of banishing from the home of their choice, from the conduct of their affairs, and perhaps from the seat of their fortunes, 25,000 individuals. This bill, too, was to be passed on the assurance of a secretary of state, that he would only exercise this absolute power in cases where it should be necessary and expedient. Gracious God! had it not been said that ship-money was so moderate, that although levied by the mere authority of the king, no real grievance or oppression was likely to arise from it? The very same arguments had been urged in defence of that iniquitous imposition, which were now advanced by the right hon. gentleman, and which would go to destroy every right that had been acquired for us in a lapse of ages. The right hon. gentleman tendered his responsibility; and, relying on this, they were invited to surrender principles which their forefathers had maintained and established with their blood. When
 811 812 813 814 815 nisi publice prohibiti,
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that upon the occasion when this bill was last granted by the House, he trusted that it would be the last time that so odious and unnecessary a measure would be demanded of it. The idea that a body of foreigners could revolutionize a people so exclusively national as were the people of this kingdom, though it was sometimes urged as a pretext for the continuance of this tyrannical measure, was an idea too puerile and absurd to deserve any formal refutation. The bill was attempted to be defended by precedents; but supposing those precedents to be correctly stated, they were taken from barbarous periods of our history, and ought to be avoided rather than imitated. He was surprised that any member of the legal profession could come forward in defence of this bill. He had hoped that, whatever indifference might be felt upon constitutional points in other parts of the community it would not be shared by gentlemen who made the law a study and profession. As to offer any farther arguments upon this
 819
 Sir R. Wilson  said, that though the right hon. secretary had taken upon himself the responsibility of the proposed measure, he must still consider it the work of the noble marquis who had taken so active a part in recent proceedings on the continent. It had been well said, that in the seventh year of peace we had a right to expect a discontinuance of this disgraceful measure. But what was the fact? The present bill, the baneful effects of which had been already so fully felt, and so ably described, was pressed forward for the purpose of meeting the views of those continental powers, who were confederated together to impede the progress of knowledge, and to retard the march of freedom. The bill bore upon its face the signet of the autocrats of Europe. This was not an English measure. Since England was England, we never had excluded foreigners from our shores, until our recent continental connections. The right
 818
 Sir John Newport  said, that the noble marquis had asserted, that no argument had been adduced against the bill. He would tell the noble lord, that when a measure was introduced to take away a part of the liberties of the people, on those who introduced it, lay the burthen of the proof.—He denied absolutely that the right hon. secretary had given any reason for the bill. He had introduced it on his mere assertion, that it was ne-
 823
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  lamented that his right hon. friend's (Mr. Grant's) conclusion should have been at variance with the principle arguments of his able speech; for the whole weight of his arguments went to support the necessity of a complete alteration in the existing system. Believing the present bill, in principle, to be the best calculated for the purpose, and that its details could be modified in the committee, it should have his support.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that as there seemed to be but one feeling as
 863
 Mr. Grant  said, he felt extremely sorry that he was bound to withhold his consent from the present measure. He was the more compelled to give this bill his decided opposition, because it had been under the consideration of the late government of Ireland, and had been rejected after having undergone considerable discussion. He allowed that it was the paramount duty of every government to see justice administered, and property secured; but there was another duty, scarcely less paramount—namely, to take care, that in administering justice and securing property, it did not sacrifice any great principle of constitutional freedom. Indeed, that was the whole distinction between a free and an arbitrary government. The object of both of them was to secure property; but the difference between them was, that in one case it was effected with a due regard to, and in the other at the expense of, every principle, civil, moral, and religious. The questions which every member ought to put to himself before he formed his opinion upon the present bill, were these—first, was there any evil at present in existence? secondly, if there was, was the remedy which it was proposed to apply of a stronger nature than the disease required? and thirdly, had every other remedy been tried, and tried in vain, before the present was proposed for adoption? Before be proceeded to discuss these topics, he should say a few words upon the nature and object of the bill itself. It went to place the whole of Ireland under an armed police, to subject it to a species of  gendarmerie, 864 865 866 867 868 869
 Mr. Grant  said, that an appeal had been made to him by an hon. bart. (an appeal involving a charge) to which he felt it necessary to give a reply; and he trusted the House would indulge him with their permission to do so. He had been asked, why, if he thought it practicable and right, he had not, while he held office in Ireland, introduced an improvement of the internals system of police in Ireland? Now, on this branch of public duty,
 872 seriatim, 873
 Mr. D. Browne  said, that in the county of Mayo, the constables recently appointed by the grand jury had been found perfectly efficient. That mode of appointment, he was persuaded, was much superior to the proposed plan of appointment by the government.
 Lord Ebrington  opposed the measure, as being, subversive of every, thing like a free government in Ireland.
 Lord Normanby  said, that the House ought to pause before they proceeded farther with a measure which was as inimical to the interests as it was obnoxious to the feelings of the freeholders of York.
 Mr. Goulbourn  rose to move the second reading of this bill. He pointed out the state of the police with regard to the appointment of constables, and showed its defects. He also alluded to the difficulties of arresting persons in Ireland, which could seldom be effected with the concurrence, or without the opposition, of the population. From these causes, to be efficient in his office, a constable ought to devote his whole time to its duties. The grand juries who now appointed them could not grant such salaries as would enable them to do so; and, in consequence, the office of constable had fallen into a state which it was most desirable to avoid. If they wished to make the people of Ireland respect the law, they must endeavour to ensure its administration with effect. The means of accomplishing this, he was about to propose to the House. He was aware that he might be met with the objection that it was against the principles of the constitution to vest such a power in the hands of the government as the appointment of these constables. But he thought the first constitutional duty of every man was to enforce the observance of the laws. The appointment of the constable of a barony was no new power in the hands of government. Several previous acts had authorized this, and the object now in view fully authorized them in extending the power to the common constables. He should propose by the bill, that the duties of a constable should be limited to the maintenance of peace, under the directions of the magistrates. He thought the present measure would remove one of the difficulties which prevented their acting with that efficiency which rendered a magistracy respectable. The House was aware that there were extraordinary measures of police now in operation, which had been attended with the most happy results; and he did not mean to imply any thing unfavourable to those measures when he proposed others, which, he considered, would operate as a preventive, instead of a remedy, for outrage. Various petitions were to be found upon their Journals, pointing out the defects of the police in Ireland. One of these, from the county of Galway, also alluded to the means by which they were to be removed. He thought no man would object to the proposition, that an effective police in Ireland was desirable. He proposed this measure to the House as the opening of a
 853
 Mr. Wynn  said, that many of those who last session agreed in the disfranchisement of the borough of Grampound, and the transfer of the right to the great county of York, were induced not to offer certain amendments which would have endangered the fate of the bill, on the distinct understanding, that the manner in which the additional members were to be elected should form the subject of a bill to be afterwards introduced. The measure then contemplated was now before the House, and he denied that it was, in any degree, a breach of the franchises of the electors of Yorkshire. The hon. gentleman asked, why was not Devonshire or Lancashire divided? They were not divided for this simple reason—because the House had fixed on the county of York, in consequence of the great number of its electors, to exercise that right which had been forfeited by the electors of Grampound. It then became the duty of the House to consider in what way the new members were to be elected, and whether they had not better be chosen by a division of the county, than by the counts, at large. Many years ago, the state of the county of York was brought under the consideration of the House, for the purpose of lessening the expenses attendant on the election of members. It then appeared, that at the last election for that county, 23,000 persons actually voted, and many individuals who came to York to give their votes, were unable to fulfil their intention, although they waited to the latest moment. The subdivision of property in manufacturing districts was known to have increased the number of electors; and therefore, if the House did not now alter the system of election with respect to Yorkshire, they would be imperatively called on to do so hereafter. A noble lord, one of the members for Yorkshire (lord Milton), felt the necessity of an alteration so strongly, that he had some time ago introduced a bill to divide the county of York into three or four districts, for
 854 l. l. 855 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that upon the necessity of improving the police of Ireland, no difference of opinion could exist. Whether the measure now proposed was the fittest to be adopted, it was for the House to determine; but it was the unanimous opinion, that a change in the police must be the first step towards the promotion of tranquillity, in that country. The hon. baronet had most correctly spoken of Ireland as having been governed for many years by little else than measures of emergency; and the object was now, instead of having a relaxation of law one moment, and a paroxysm of violence the next, to have a steady, vigorous, and efficient police—a police which should not only act to punish crime, but, to prevent it; and which, by habituating the people to obey the law, would in the end have the
 856 857 l.; l.; l. l. l., l.; l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that he laid little stress upon the question of expense, because he thought that, if the bill would answer the object proposed, it ought, at any cost, to be carried into effect. But he resisted the bill upon the broad ground of its principle. There was no doubt of the advantage of equally enforcing the law, and of making the people look up to it as a protection rather than as an evil; but the bill now proposed, so far from bringing public opinion to the side of the law, was, of all measures, the most calculated to awaken public indignation. The execution of the law at present was defective; but let the system be fairly tried before it was condemned. Let it be ascertained whether the fault was in the principle of the existing system or in the abuse of it. The right hon. gentleman had adverted
 858 ad infinitum 859
 Mr. Duncombe  supported the bill.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  admitted, that k was a defect in the police of Ireland, that there was not that link of connexion between its magistracy and the government which existed in England, by means of the lords lieutenant of counties. This was an evil to which he should wish to see a remedy applied. With respect to the magistracy of Ireland generally, he had always found it defective; and reform it as parliament might, it would still continue defective, owing to the great number of absentee proprietors. However active and honest their agents might be, they could never adequately supply the places of the great landed proprietors. At the same time he should not wish to see the deficiency remedied by a general extension of stipendiary magistrates; for he thought that the appointment of stipendiary magistrates in every county would degenerate into abuse. Still, however, he held it necessary that government should have the power of appointing such magistrates in certain cases; for it would be destructive of all law to allow 20 or 30 miles extent of country to be without a magistrate, or, what was the same thing, with magistrates who did not act. He would suggest, that the stipendiary magistrate should be appointed only where there was no resident magistrate, or where he did not do his duty; and that then it should be on the recommendation of the other magistrates of the county. Under any other circumstances, he thought that the extension of salaried magistrates would be an evil.—As to the general state of the police in Ireland, it was admitted on all hands, that the system was so bad that something should be done. Let the House look to the present state of Ireland in that respect. She had now, not to guard against any external danger, but to protect the administration of the law, to support a regular army of 21,000 men, besides 4,000
 861
 Lord Hotham  contended, that the bill would be beneficial to the county of York, and denied that they had any reason to believe that the county was averse to it.
 Admiral Sotheron  thought it would be for the benefit of all parties that the county should be kept entire.
 Mr. Holford  expressed a wish that the hon. member would withdraw the He really should not, as a magistrate, know how to act, if a postboy were brought before him, under the present bill, for riding his horse too hard.
 Mr. H. Sumner  supported the bill, and contended that the West Riding ought not to ride over the two other ridings.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if the lateness of the hour and length of the debated would not deter him from trespassing on the House, the able and unanswered speech of his right hon. friend (Mr. Grant) would have that effect. But he thought that, being unconnected with Ireland and having necessarily only superficial information to guide his judgment on such a subject, it would be well for him, and for other English gentlemen who thought with him, to show the sister kingdom that they were awake to her
 871
 Mr. Abercromby  admitted, that there
 862
 Mr. Grattan  was unfriendly to the bill, and hostile to the introduction of this description of stipendiary magistrates into Ireland.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that a decided majority of the freeholders were against the bill. The West Riding were almost unanimous against it.
 Mr. Buxton  rose, on the order for the third reading, of this bill, and having stated some objections, recommended the hon. member by whom it was introduced,
 874
 Mr. Monck  opposed the Bill, and moved, "That it be read a third time that day six months."
 Mr. Ramsden  could perceive no benefit which the bill was likely to produce, Out was confident that its effects would be mischievous. The voice of the great body of the Yorkshire electors was decidedly against it. He held in his hand a statement of the sentiments of the grand jury on the subject. Of 22 members 21 were present when the expression of their opinion took place. Of these 21 members, 17 decided against the bill, and, four reserved their opinion. Three of this latter number had since given their opinion against this measure, and one gentleman, who was absent at the time, was supposed to be hostile to it. The only one in favour of the bill was the county treasurer. It would have a baneful effect on the elective franchise. As the law now stood, he had four votes for the county of York; but if this measure were agreed to, he should only have two.
 Mr. R. Martin  could not consent to abandon the bill.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, he was satisfied of the propriety and justice of the measure; and, as he thought the majority of the House was with him, he should press it.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that nothing short of this bill could restore peace and tranquillity to Ireland.
 Mr. Chaloner  said, it was a remarkable circumstance, that those who advocated the measure had no connexion with the county of York, and therefore could receive no injury if it were carried. On the other hand, the various interests in the county of York which would be effected by it felt no inclination to support the measure. That which principally created his hostility to the bill was the direct and gross injury which it would inflict on the exercise of the elective franchise. If the electors had committed
 847
 Mr. Denison  opposed the measure, and expressed a wish that a bill similar to that formerly brought forward by lord Milton, might be adopted.
 Mr. Wilberforce  considered this question as one of very high importance. A variety of opinions existed as to the best mode of popular representation. Some wished to confine the elective franchise to large counties, towns, and districts; others were desirous of extending it to places of smaller consequence. From the extent of its population, and its diversity of character, all those varieties of opinion were to be found in the county of York, which might be said to constitute a little empire. He was, however, entirely in favour of having future elections for that county carried on as they had formerly been. The feeling of constitutional importance which arose from an election so conducted was of no small value in the support of public liberty. To know that by their proceedings at a great election, they gave a tone to the rest of the country, was exceedingly pleasing to the people, and was a principle which they valued in the extreme. On the importance of keeping this stimulating principle alive, the late Mr. Fox had dilated in public and private company; and his opinion, he was convinced, would be treated with respect. The bill of the right hon. gentleman would have a contrary effect. The right hon. gentleman conceived that the
 848 849
 Sir H. Parnell  fully agreed that the present measure was one of the most important that could be submitted to their consideration, with reference to the condition or interests of Ireland; but he could not help regarding as most grievous, the consequences of that neglect which had marked the proceedings of those to whom the government of Ireland had been hitherto confided. In that country there was still visible a sort of lawlessness which seemed to indicate that the effects of early conquests were not yet terminated. Among the more immediate causes of confusion, however, he might mention the want of a proper system of communication between the executive authority and the different counties. In England this branch of the civil power was in full vigour, and there were lords lieutenant in every county with whom government might correspond, and derive, through these means, timely information with regard to all that was passing, or likely to occur. One material defect of this measure was, that it offered no enactment for improving the present state and character of the magistracy in Ireland. Its sole purpose was, to provide for a new mode of appointing constables, and the bill might be considered as going to vest greater powers in the hands of magistrates, who were already notorious for doing all they could to bring the laws into disrepute. It was but recently that one of them was convicted of turning every process that came before him to his own private emolument. It was no uncommon case for a justice of the peace to derive 200 l. l. 850 851
 Mr. Scarlett  opposed the Bill, not because he did not concur with the hon. mover, in disapproving of the ill-treatment of animals, but because the offences proposed to be punished by this bill were of too vague and indefinite a nature. Indeed, if the, principle were adopted he could not see where the line was to be drawn, or why there should not be a punishment affixed to the boiling of lobsters, or the eating of oysters alive.
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, he could not join in the reprobation which had been directed against this bill. Much had been said of the imperfect and inadequate condition of the magistracy. Admitting that
 870
 Sir J. Newport  said, that if he could be convinced there was in the present bill any thing which could be called an amelioration of the system of police in Ireland, it should have his most cordial support; but, from the view which he took of it, he did not think it would be a benefit to his country; on the contrary, he thought it would be a source of increased evil. He therefore trusted that the house would attentively consider whether some more effective measure could not be adopted to remedy the defects of the old system. The present system of police in Ireland was most defective; but when he saw, that in the case of the county of Longford, and in other places where the attempt was made, that system had been rendered efficacious by a vigilant exertion on the part of the local authorities, he would ask whether the present was a time to abandon all that had been done, and to introduce a system diverging in quite the contrary direction? There was not a doubt in his mind that the enactments of the bill would create very general discontent among the respectable magistracy of Ireland; and he was authorized to state by many most respectable magistrates, that if it passed into a law, they would throw up their commissions, as they should consider themselves disgraced by its enactments. He would have no objection to going into the com-
 860
 Lord Althorp  said, that as he had a decided objection, to the whole bill in principle, he could not consent to go into a committee upon it; for no modification could reconcile him to it. The measure was in itself most arbitrary, and would lead to worse evils than those which it affected to remedy.
 The Marquis of Londonderry,  upon the report being brought up said, that as there was so strong an opinion against the clause for grinding foreign wheat, introduced by his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning), he should feel it his duty to oppose that clause, and proceed in the bill without it. It would be in the power of his right hon. friend to bring that clause afterwards before the House in the shape of a separate bill.
 Sir J. Sebright  considered the clause fatal to the agricultural interest.
 Sir J. Sebright  said, the millers had assured him, that if the corn came into their mills, they would defy the Excise to prevent them from taking it out again as they thought fit.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that the bill would be an inducement to the merchant to deal with the foreign grower instead of the British farmer. He looked on the bill as one of horror and abhorrence, and an insult to the landed interest.
 Mr. F. Lewis  contended, that the clause would be essentially serviceable to the landed interest.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, that if the clause were adopted, it would be impossible to prevent foreign flour from being smuggled into home consumption.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  agreed that the importers of foreign corn were entitled to some boon, but thought that by this bill they obtained no inconsiderable advantage—that of being enabled to bring their corn into the home market 10 s. 877
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that unless the agriculturists could show that injury would arise to them from the adoption of the clause, parliament should not hesitate to give to the foreign importer the proposed relief.
 Mr. Denis Browne  said that the clause would have the effect of encouraging the speculator in foreign corn, and of depreciating the price of our home produce.
 Mr. Canning  could not accept, at that period of the session, the compromise offered by his noble friend. He should, therefore, take the sense of the House on the clause. All parties were friendly to its principle, but some were apprehensive of abuse in the operation. His constituents were ready to acquiesce in any security or restrictions the Treasury might think proper to impose.
 Mr. Canning  said, he would not have brought this clause forward if he thought it would prejudice the agriculturist. He had introduced it with the same view which the country gentlemen had in supporting the general principles of the bill. They conceived the bill necessary to prevent a greater accumulation of agricultural distress. He conceived that his clause went to remove an evil which parliament were called upon to remedy. Still, however, much as he thought the clause necessary, he would not press it if he believed it could defeat the main objects of the bill; and whether it was agreed to or not, he should still vote for the bill. But he begged of the House to consider the situation in which the importers of foreign corn were placed. The House had already granted them a boon by which they would be enabled to send their corn from the warehouses at 10 s.
 Mr. Bright  supported the clause, the provision of which he thought due in equity to the commercial interest. Had a similar advantage been proposed in 1815, the period of the last corn-bill, it would not, according to the then mode of taking averages, have been refused. The landed interest were under a most ill-founded alarm, when they apprehended that the existing Custom-house regulations could not suffice to prevent the illicit importation of foreign flour.
 General Gascoyne  said, that when the corn was warehoused it was entered for exportation; and it could make no difference in what form it went out. The petitioners did not ask for liberality, but equity and justice.
 Mr. Benett  was indifferent as to the fate of the clause; for if it were agreed to, it would probably endanger the whole measure, which was one of the most ruinous that had ever been devised.
 Mr. Curwen  said, that the clause could not promote the interest of the agriculturists, and might very seriously injure them, as it afforded no security against an unlimited quantity of corn finding its way into the home market.
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought there was something more in this clause than met the eye.
 Mr. Western  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his motion relative to the effect which the Resumption of Cash Payments had had in producing the present agricultural distress. Such was his conviction of the calamity which the resumption of cash payments had produced to the agriculturists, and, he might say, to all the industrious classes in the country, that he could not help making every effort in his power to bring it before the House and the country. He felt, that he had not the wit or the eloquence to charm their ears or arrest their attention; but still he was anxious to lay before them the result of that investigation of the subject, upon which he had been induced to enter. The object of his motion, he would state at the outset was, to arraign the wisdom, the justice, and the policy of the measure passed in 1819 for the resumption of cash payments; but in arraigning that measure, he did not mean to censure the motives, or to cast any exclusive blame on the conduct, of his majesty's ministers. He knew that it was
 878 879 l. l. l. l. l. 880 l. l. l. l. s. 881 882 primo d. d. d. s. l. vice versa; 883 884 885 l. 886 s. d.; s. d.; s. d.; s. d., s.; s. 887 s. s. s. s.; s.; s., s. s. s. s.; s. d. s. s. 888 s. s. 889 l.: s. s., s., l. 890 891 l. l. l. l. s. d., s. d. l.; s. d.; 892 l. s., l., s. d., l. s. l. s. l. s. l. l. l. l., l. s. d. s. l., l. s. d. 893 s. d., l. l. l. l s. d. 894 l. l. s. 895 896
 Lord A. Hamilton  expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should have assumed throughout the whole of his speech, that the country was in a prosperous condition. He was inclined to support the original motion, because it was represented that the change which had been made in the value of the currency was operating ruin towards a large portion of the country. He protested against the doctrine laid down by the right hon. gentleman, that every member who supported the motion must therefore be supposed to entertain the same opinions as the hon. mover of it. He agreed in many of the arguments made use of by his hon. friend; but he could not admit that by doing so he implied his approval of an alteration of the standard, or a repeal of the bill of 1819. If his hon. friend had proposed to repeal that bill without inquiry, he would have opposed such a proceeding. If he were to admit that much of the argument of the right hon. gentleman were true, still it would not induce him to withhold his support from the motion. The right hon. gentleman asserted, that by acceding to the proposition of his hon. friend, the House would commit great injustice towards debtors. Now, it formed one of the grounds of complaint against the bill which provided for the return to cash payments, that it oppressed the debtor and benefited the creditor. The right hon. gentleman had asked, what was to be done with respect
 926 927 s. 928 s. s.
 Mr. Huskisson  spoke in substance as follows:— 898 899 900 901 l. l., l., l. l. data 902 l. l. l. l.; l. l., quantum 903 904 905 him, bona fide 906 l. l. natural legitimate 907 908 909 910 common measure common equivalent medium 911 vice versa, s. s. s. 912 s., s. 913 s. d., l. s. l. s. d. l., s. d. l., s. d. 914 s. s. 915 916 debtor, nett 917 l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l. l. quantum 918 919 s. d. s., s. d. 920 921 s. s. d. s. s. "and enacting the clipt money to go again, the very hopes of which locks up all the gold and good money, and would be to undo all that has been done." Enacting the clipt money to go again! undoing all that has been done! petitions from all the counties about the state of the money; that they could afford little help as to a present supply, but by the expectation they 922 would raise, that clipt money should be current again, or a recompense allowed for it; that the standard should be advanced, and the price of guineas improved." "the re-issuing of the clipped money, and the undoing all that has been done." 923 "for undoing all that had been done," s. d. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d., 924 i. e. 925
 Mr. Bennet  rose and said, that before he proceeded to make a few observations on the motion before the House, he wished the resolutions to be read, which had been moved by the chancellor of the exchequer on the 13th of May, 1811. [The said resolutions having been accordingly read by the clerk, the hon. member proceeded.] He apologized to the House for offering himself to their notice on this occasion, but he was unwilling to give his vote in favour of the resolution of his hon. friend, without entering into some explanation of the principles on which he should support that resolution—principles, which were in strict conformity with opinions which he had long ago entertained on this subject, but which he confessed he had shrunk from acknowledging, partly from their great singularity at the time, and partly from the unwillingness he felt when he was a younger man, to obtrude himself on the attention of the House upon questions of such primary importance. Had he entertained opinions directly opposite, he should have had no scruple in manfully and honestly retracting them; but when he saw consequences resulting from the measures of his majesty's government, in strict conformity with what he had, previously anticipated, he had no hesi-
 929 s d.; s.; s d s d.; l s d l s s d.; s d.; s d.; s d 930 931 l l l l l l 932 l l l 933
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  said, that having been one of the few who actively opposed in 1819, not the principle, but the time and mode of the bill for resuming cash payments, and who then unsuccessfully endeavoured to rouse the landed interest in that House to a sense of its danger, he was desirous of stating on what ground he should vote for the motion of his hon. friend, especially as he did not coincide in all the views he had taken of the subject. He was an enemy to a return now to a paper currency without control, as one of the greatest calamities; but the motion pledged him to nothing more than to a re-consideration of what was called Mr. Peel's bill, and its effects on the country. Such a revision was called for in innumerable petitions. The present was a favourable moment for a calm consideration of it, as we were in a state of tranquillity at home and abroad, and as the clamour had subsided which attended the passing of this bill in 1819, and which rendered it then almost a service of danger to venture to oppose Now, indeed, the public feeling was so much the other way, that he would venture to say, the majority of that night would rather be procured by the supposed impracticability of remedying the evils of this bill than by any approbation of it. He contended, that the measure of 1819, was not perfect and accurate, because it was carried by clamour—because the committee was constituted of individuals, the majority of whom had pledged themselves to the bullion theory by pamphlets or speeches. Besides this, they had founded their measure on a false theory; namely, that gold was the exact index of the depreciation of our currency.
 934
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that if ever there
 955 956 l l 957 958 959 960 l l l 961 962 963 964
 Mr. Haskisson  appealed to all who had heard him, whether he had represented the hon. member for Essex, as saying, that corn was to be the currency; but he maintained that he advocated corn being the standard. He would not call that un-candid of the hon. baronet; but he would say that he had been misrepresented. The hon. baronet represented him as comparing the currency of 1797 with that in the time of king William. He had not done so. He had compared the pressure which now prevailed from the restoration of a metallic currency, with that during king William's reign, and had argued, that similar effects had arisen from similar causes.
 Mr. Attwood  addressed the House to the following effect: 966 967 968 969 970 l s d s s l l s s 971 l s d s s 972 s d 973 974 s s s s s s s s 975 976 s s s l l l.; l s d s d s d 977 978 979 
 
 The amount in circulation. Aug. 16, 1817, is 30,100,000. 
 It was reduced by Nov. 15, 1817, to 29,400,000. 
 And continued as follows: Feb. 1818, 28,700,000. 
 May, — 28,000,000. 
 Aug. — 26,000,000. 
 Nov. — 26,000,000. 
 Feb. 1819 25,600,000. 
 May. — 23,000,000. 
 Aug. — 26,000,000. 
 Nov. — 24,000,000. 
 Feb. 1820. 24,000,000. 
 May. — 23,900,000. 
 Aug. — 24,400,000. 
 Nov. — 23,400,000. l 980 l l 
 
 Notes of £.5 and upwards, 
 Nov. 1817 £19,600,000. 
 Nov. 1818 16,900,000. 
 Nov. 1819 * 
 Nov. 1820 15,300,000. 
 Nov. 1821 14,800,000. 
 May 1822 14,600,000. * 981 l l 982 983 l l s d 984 l s d 985 986 987 en- 988 tirely mainly l s l s d 989 990 l 991 l s d 992 l l l l 993 994 995 996 997 998 999 1000 There is a general feeling we despair pervading the tenantry Ireland." 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 s 1007 1008 1009
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that, as he wished the discussion to be as much limited as was consistent with the importance of it, in claiming the attention of the House, he promised to confine the observations which he had to offer within the narrowest bounds. To prove that such was his intention, he would at once come to the question before them, without entering into those abstruse topics in which the hon. member who had just sat down had indulged, and which were hardly fit to be debated in an assembly like the present. For unless a case of over-ruling necessity could be made out, that House ought not for a moment to entertain an idea of again interfering with the standard of the country it was difficult to conceive a motion to which more objections could present themselves than the one which was now before them. The period of the session at which it was brought forward—the arguments by which it had been supported—the object contemplated—all presented separate sources of objections to it. It was on the 12th of June that they were called upon to commence an inquiry into the effect of a bill, the operation of which affected the agriculture, the manufactures, and the commerce of the empire, and consequently all classes in the state. He would ask the House if it was possible for them to enter upon a more important or more extended inquiry; and what proposition was pointed to as that at which they must ultimately arrive? This was not distinctly made out; and until he came to the speech of the hon. baronet, the member for Westminster, he was at a loss to determine what it was that the committee was to do. The hon. alderman, the member for Sudbury, in supporting the motion had declared that he could not concur in the arguments which had been used in its support. He was followed by another hon. member, who also agreeing with the motion, disapproved of five-sixths of the arguments which had been advanced in its behalf; and to him succeeded the hon. member for Portarlington, who, proposing to vote for it, considered the act of 1819
 1010 1011 s s l l 1012 1013 1014 1015 s s 1016 1017
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that at that hour of the morning he would occupy the time of the House only for a few minutes. The motion of the hon. member would, he contended, if adopted, lead to very dangerous results, and could produce no possible benefit. With that candour and manliness which characterized that hon. member, he had at once called for a committee to inquire how the standard currency of the country might be altered. Such a motion could be met by arguments showing that no alteration was necessary. But, that this was a measure not called for by necessity, was proved by the conduct of the hon. member himself; for if he considered it a measure of the importance which it was now sought to attach to it, why had he delayed it unfit the present period of the session? With respect to the amendment of his right hon. friend, it had been greatly misunderstood. It was not meant by it, that under no possible contingency any alteration could take place in the currency of the
 1027
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that he agreed in a great deal of what had fallen from his hon. friend who spoke last, and particularly in his view of the effect of the preparations made by the Bank for the resumption of payments in specie; it was undeniable, that the manner in which the Bank had gone on purchasing gold to provide for a metallic currency, had materially affected the public interests. It was impossible to ascertain what was the amount of the effect of that mistake on the part of the Bank, or to what precise extent their bullion purchases affected the value of gold; but, whatever the extent was, so
 939 940 941 s 942 943 944 * * 945 s s s s 946 s l s quantity regulated the value of every thing 947 948 s s s 949 s s.; s 950 s s s s s s s s.; s.; s s 951 952 953 l s l s l s d l s l s d l l s s l l 954
 Mr. Brougham  rose for the purpose of stating very briefly the grounds on which he-should give his vote to the motion of his hon. friend, the member for Essex. Of all the propositions which had ever
 1018 s s?" 1019 1020 s s s 1021 l l 1022 1023 s s s 1024 l l 1025 1026 s s
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that though in much that had fallen from the hon. alderman, he widely differed from him, yet he felt himself compelled to vote as he did. There could be neither doubt nor
 935 l l 936
 Mr. Pearse  said, that the hon. member for Portarlington had charged the Bank with error and indiscretion in having become too extensive purchasers of gold, in consequence of the passing of the act of 1819. The fact was, that the Bank were quite passive in taking the gold from the merchants who offered it for their purchase. The consequence, however, had been, that bullion had been paid whenever it had been demanded, and that an issue of 10 or 11,000,000 of gold sovereigns had taken place. Ever since he had been connected with the establishment, he had been invariably against, all forced or artificial measures. The cirstances which had chiefly led to the late high and the existing low prices, and plenty of gold, were, perhaps, these:—in 1797, the country was pretty full of gold. During the ensuing year some gold, in small quantities, was sent out of the country, to pay a few balances, such as purchases of corn and other commodities. As fast as that gold went out of the country, the quantity of Bank notes issued was increased. Up to the year 1810, which was 13 years after the suspension of cash payments, gold enough was left in the country to pay all its foreign balances. By the end of the year 1813, the war had become excessively expensive, and very large quantities of wheat were purchased. Still, however, sufficient gold was left in the country to pay the same balances; but it was at this period that it obtained its excessive price. In four years afterwards, when the war and these several causes ceased, gold fell extremely. When peace returned, and trade was more regularly settled, the exchanges became gradually more favourable to us. The issue of Bank-notes in the meantime certainly continued; but it was with great regularity. In fact, the Bank had no means of making forced issues. In proportion as the nominal value and the trading value of gold was different, the transactions between man and man were more or less affected; but the issues of Bank-notes were kept up, always with reference to the standard price of gold. He would assert, that as the Bank had never forced an issue, so neither had there ever been any depreciation in the value of their notes, with reference to the price of gold.
 Mr. Leycester  said, that as he had not yet heard any of the arguments of his
 937 "Pol me occidistis, amici, Non servâstis, ait; cui sic extorta voluptas, Et demptus per vim mentis gratissimus error." "Stepp'd in so far, that should they wade no more, Returning were as tedious as go o'er."
 Mr. Haldimand  said, that as the coun-
 938
 Mr. Plunkett  said, it would not be fair dealing with the government, called on as they had been to introduce a remedial measure, to interpose at the outset, before its details could be known. He denied that this bill would stand in the way of an ulterior measure founded upon the general principle of commutation. On the contrary, it would facilitate it, by establishing a nearer principle of valuation. For his own part, he could not see his way through the principle of commutation. On what principle would they commute? Would they give the clergy what was called a fair and liberal remuneration, or would they elect an arbitrary standard? The difficulty was, how to touch the property of the church without affecting the rights of property of every other description. Suppose they were to take the broad ground of right in their scale of estimate—then they must practically levy a larger sum than the clergy collected; for the actual receipts were nearer 1–20th than 1–10th. But the great difficulty in the way of commutation was, to draw a distinction between church and other property. If they opened the chapter of the church, they would be next called upon to open the chapter of the landlord. He must, from his own professional experience, deny that tithes were the cause of local disturbances is Ireland, unless so far as tithes were an ingredient in property; for it was against property that the insubordination was directed, and against that alone. His right hon. friend attributed the disturb-
 1041 s s
 Mr. Dennis Browne  declared, that from the time when he was quite a boy—for the last 50 years, the tithes and their collection had disturbed the peace of Ireland. The peace of his country never could be secure whilst such a system continued. He was in favour of a commutation but he would vote for the present
 1042
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that while the question was under the consideration of ministers, he should be sorry to see gentlemen enter into any discussion which would have the effect of pledging them to one particular line of proceeding to the exclusion of every other. For himself he was sincerely anxious to adopt such a course as would produce permanent relief to Ireland. It had been said, that in Catholic countries the tithes had been totally abolished. He should be sorry that this should operate in any other way than as a caution against those dangerous and revolutionary doctrines, the yielding to which had produced such devastation in the world. This bill would produce many good effects, and, among others, that of removing the middle-man in the tithe system. His right hon. friend, in bringing it forward had shown that he looked at the question with the enlarged views of a statesman, anxious to preserve the estates of the church on the one hand, while he secured the property and happiness of the people on the other. His right hon. friend had not stated that he was decidedly against all commutation, but had left it for future decision. He must deprecate the decisive tone in which hon. members had spoken. Some of them seemed to consider it quite as easy a matter to commute tithes and to settle the value as it was to buy or sell a quarter of wheat. He should tremble for the whole property of the country if parliament were not to sanction the principle, that the possessions of the clergy were to be touched with as much delicacy as those of any private individual. He begged it to be understood, that ministers had by no means decided against a commutation, if it could be effected on the principle of a full and lair equivalent. At present, leave was only asked to bring in a better bill than an hon. baronet had, for three sessions, been pressing upon the House.
 Mr. Hutchinson  was disposed to give leave to bring in the bill, without however pledging himself to support it, or committing himself in any way against the necessity of a commutation of tithes in Ireland. If leave were refused, ministers, in despair, might abandon the subject, or at least have a fair excuse for doing so. He begged to remind the noble marquis, that during the discussions on the Union, Mr. Pitt, besides impliedly promising emancipation, had particularly alluded to the tithe system of Ireland as a crying grievance.
 Mr. Foster  contended, that the effect of the bill would rather be to excite than to tranquillize Ireland.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he should certainly support the motion. But he must be allowed to argue this question as one of property. No body of men had so clear a title, perhaps, to their property, as the clergy possessed to tithes. It was a right so ancient, as to be, perhaps, anterior in its origin to any now existing. He would briefly consider the effect of rent and tithes as operative in producing the present distress. The rent generally bore more severely on the peasantry than tithes. In Ulster, the tithes were extremely moderate, and compositions were generally admitted. The law of agistment was there unknown, and that law he considered as one of the prominent causes of discontent. In Connaught, the people were free from the tithe on potatoes, but the law of agistment was in full operation. Still, however, little dissatisfaction prevailed. The rich man was contented, because his pasture paid no tithe; and the poor man experienced comparative content, because his food was also exempted from the operation of the tithe system. In this province compositions were scarcely ever entered into, except when a rich grazier wished to convert a part of his pasture into arable land. In Leinster no potatoe tithe was demanded; and it was worthy of observation, that those counties were the most disturbed in which that tithe was paid. Munster was the great source of all the complaints made against tithes; and it appeared to him, that the law of agistment there was the real cause of the evil. It was not the rapacity of the clergy which produced such disastrous consequences. They hardly received the 1–20th part of what they had a right to claim; and ample time was allowed for payment. It would be asked, if tithes were so moderate, and the clergy so forbearing, why was this general outcry raised against them? The reason was this—the population of Ireland consisted of Catholics, Presbyterians, and Protestants. The members of the Protestant church formed a comparatively small portion of the community. But in their hands all power was placed, and they constituted the landed proprietors of the country. If they found their rents not regularly paid, they were sometimes apt to attribute the circumstance to the tithe system. So that religious, political, and self-interested feelings produced this outcry.
 1043
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that in rising to call the attention of the House to this important subject, he was deeply sensible of the difficulties with which any individual had to contend, who undertook to submit to parliament a legislative measure on the subject of Tithes. All questions which involved the right of property were of a delicate and embarrassing nature; but there were, in this particular question, so many, and such important interests—so much of passion and prejudice to be reconciled, that it presented far more than ordinary difficulties. The antiquity of the system, and its necessary connection with the most valuable part of our institutions, made it doubtful how far any measure for its regulation could be satisfactory. It was not enough to see the evils to which the present system gave rise; it was requisite that the remedy proposed should not produce a derangement of other parts of the system, more dangerous than those which it was intended to repair; and it was, from these circumstances, more than probable, that any proposal would appear inadequate to the object in view. He begged to assure the House, that he had not approached the subject with any idea of superior competence for a task which others had in vain undertaken, but had been influenced solely by that anxious desire which animated the head of the Irish government, to remedy the evils under which Ireland had suffered, and to advance one step, at least, on the road of amelioration and improvement. He might have flattered himself that a measure brought forward in this spirit, and with this object, would have received the general, if not the universal concurrence of the House; and although he had been apprised that this was not likely to be the case, he nevertheless did not despair of so explaining the measure as to entitle it to the favour and approbation of the House. If, indeed, there were any persons who entertained an idea of finding in this bill a sanction for those wild and erroneous schemes which had been recently given to the public, or who con-
 1030 1031 1032 1033 1034 l 1035 1036 1037
 Mr. Daly  said, that although he should not object to the bringing in of the bill, he would oppose it in every subsequent stage. He would move next session for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the propriety of a commutation of tithes.
 Colonel Forde  supported the motion as a stepping-stone to a full consideration of the whole question.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, he would vote for the introduction of the bill, and he should vote for it in all its stages.
 Mr. Carew  contended, that there could he no repose in Ireland until a commutation was effected.
 Mr. O'Grady  viewed the tithe system as the great cause of the disturbed state of Ireland. The bill would not do all that he wished, but it would do something. He would not support any kind of commutation that would put in the pockets of the clergy of Ireland more than they had at present; which, in fact, was already too much. The tithe system operated as a heavy tax on food and labour, and tended to discourage the cultivation of waste lands. Waste and barren lands were exempted from the operation of the tithe system, which was a sort of premium for keeping them in that useless state. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to point out the hardships which the farmer suffered under the existing regulations for enforcing the payment of tithe. If he gave his note, and failed to pay it, a decree was had against him; then a monition, which took him into the Assistant Barrister's Court; and ultimately he had an appeal to the Judge. These vexatious proceedings weighed him down by their expense. There was, however, a summary mode of recovering tithe to the amount of 5 l 1044 pari passu,
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that from the speech of the right hon. and learned gentleman, it was quite clear that all hopes of a commutation were at an end. If a fair and equal system of commutation were adopted, he would venture to stake the whole success of the measure on the approbation of the parochial clergy; but a proposition like that now brought forward would be totally ineffective. Would the right hon. and learned gentleman accede to a commission emanating from the Crown, the object of which should be to inquire into the practicability of commuting tithes, and which should be instructed to lay the information it might collect before that House? More good might be expected from such a commission; for while Irish members, session after session, were talking about what was proper to be done, nothing was effected. As to this commission, however, the House must call for it, or, he was afraid, it would never be constituted. It would be necessary that some gentle violence should be used with ministers on the occasion; but, anticipating the happiest results from it, he was most anxious to see it carried into execution.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he was happy to observe, that the government had at length taken the important question of Irish tithes into their consideration. Such a step ought to have been taken years back. That it had not, was not his fault; for at a very early period after he had the honour of a seat in that House, he had called the attention of parliament to it. The measure had made some progress by the liberal manner in which the right hon. gentleman had that night introduced it into the House; but the evil was so great as to require the application of a more general remedy than the one proposed. The chief evil of the system was not to be found in the amount of tithes received by the clergy, for he believed that the clergy in general acted with great generosity and humanity, but in the manner in which those tithes were too frequently collected. There was a wide difference between the tithes which a clergyman could take by law, and those which he took by custom; indeed so wide, that a clergyman might disturb a whole county
 1038 s d s d l s d 1039
 Sir N. Colthurst  thought a commutation necessary, with a view to the tranquillity of Ireland, and the security of the established church. He would not consent to any commutation that did not meet with the approbation of the clergy.
 Sir J. Newport  thought it would be better to press no measure at present, rather than the one under discussion. He was convinced, that if the parochial clergy of Ireland could be polled without their names being disclosed to their episcopal superiors, four-fifths of them would be in favour of a commutation. Such a commutation had been promised at the time of the Union; and it remained for those who had made the promise to show why it had not been carried into effect. Out of eleven or twelve counties in which the tithe on potatoes was levied,
 1040
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he was not in the House when the petition was read, but he hoped that no objection would be made to its reception. However strongly he might reprobate the particular paragraph in question, he did not apprehend that it formed any objection to the petition being received. On the contrary, he thought it would be highly useful that this petition of the county of Kent should remain on the records of parliament, to warn other counties against being betrayed into the avowal of principles so disgraceful to themselves, and so calculated to bring ruin or the country. It was not with any surprise that he had heard the noble lord opposite disclaim a doctrine so unjust, so flagitious, and so pregnant with ruin and degradation to the country; but the noble lord must forgive him for saying, that he had heard part of his observations with great pain. The noble lord said, that he could never consent to such a measure, except in a case of overwhelming necessity. BY what process of reasoning could the noble lord couple the word
 1082
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he was happy to hear the anxiety of the noble lord to explain his expressions, but the case put by the noble lord could only justify the nation in postponing the performance of its engagements, and not in consenting to the violation of them. He exceedingly lamented, that the leaders of that meeting, for the sake of their station and character in the country, had not rescued themselves froth the disgrace of having such a proposition carried.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that if the two representatives of the county had made the statements to the meeting which they had made this evening, there would not have been fifty voices for the amendment. He lamented that they had not made known their indignation against such a proposition. The meeting had agreed to it from utter ignorance on the part of many, and many, from not having heard it at all. Those who called the meeting ought to have stood till this time, combating the amendment, rather than have allowed it to be attached to their petition. If they had acted so, the person who had proposed it, and who was not known as a freeholder, would soon have been obliged to take his horse and ride away. He disclaimed the amendment as not expressing the sentiments of the meeting, and had he not been engaged in duties which he conceived to be more important in that House, he could have successfully exposed the weakness and fallacy of the proposition. It was said I that gentlemen were taken by surprise; but when men undertook to manage public meetings, they ought to be prepared for emergencies of this sort. He had reason to know that the individual who proposed this rider had not the slightest expectation of seeing it adopted.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  denied having said a word against county meetings generally. All he had said was this,
 1086
 Lord Clifton  said, it might seem odd for a man to accuse himself; but he did think that the Whig leaders had wanted spirit at the meeting. How Mr. Cobbett had got possession of the meeting he could hardly conceive, unless from the circumstance of his having spoken towards the close of the meeting, and amidst that confusion which generally attended the breaking up of such bodies. But, notwithstanding the objectionable character of the rider, he believed the sentiments expressed in the petition to be the sentiments of a great proportion of the freeholders of Kent; and he hoped that future meetings would take warning how they annexed to their petitions sentiments and. principles of a revolutionary nature.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought, that the manly and becoming confession of the noble lord had done ten times more towards setting his party right with the people of England, than the defence which had been made for them by the hon. and learned member. But, when the noble lord expressed his astonishment how Mr. Cobbett could have influenced the meeting, he put a query which, in fact, he himself had answered. Mr. Cobbett had succeeded in influencing the meeting, simply because he had not been manfully resisted. What was the charge against the meeting in question? Was it blamed for having met to petition parliament for retrenchment? No; it was blamed for having proposed an unjust and iniquitous measure. The more decided the opposition of the Whig leaders to Mr. Cobbett's proposition, the greater had been their blame that they had not stood forward, and explained to the men of Kent the impropriety of the course they were following. If the being squeezed in a waggon was an excuse for one individual, it could not be an excuse for all. After all, he preferred the manly proposal, for a downright reduction of the interest of the debt,
 1087
 Mr. Bennet  said, he was not surprised that the right hon. secretary was desirous to do away the disgrace which attached to the pillage in the first instance of the public creditor, and the pillage afterwards of the public debtor, which had been committed by the government. These profligate and abandoned examples had corrupted the moral, feelings of the country; though, after all, he did not believe that the objectionable proposal could be considered as the act of a discussing body.
 Mr. Western  was astonished at the consummate assurance [Hear, hear!] with which the right hon. gentleman had denounced the men of Kent, for an expression wrung from them in a moment of irritation. Why had not the friends of the right hon. secretary come forward to face and to instruct the meeting? If only one-tenth of the county was favourable to the rider, why had not the other nine-tenths come forward to oppose it? It was too much for gentlemen to suppose, that public justice was due to no one but to the public creditor. Why was it not equally to be measured to the public debtor?
 Mr. Wilson  could not agree, that there was any analogy between the English Bank-note and the French assignats. Were they to attempt to treat contracts in the way proposed, they would plunge the country into inevitable ruin. He did not see how the gentlemen opposite could blame the resumption of cash payments. He was sure that until they had found that some of the consequences of that measure were ruinous, a great majority of them were in favour of it.
 Mr. Philips  attributed all the evils which the country was suffering to the suspension of cash payments in 1797, and trusted that the country would never again be agitated by a return to that system.
 Sir F. Burdett  thought it was hard that, his hon. friend, the member for Kent, should be fallen upon in the way the he had been by both sides of the House, inconsequence of his omission to do what few of the most experienced public men would have had presence of mind to do in his
 1088 s s s 1089
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that if the hon. member chose to become the advocate of revolutionary measures, he must find some better pretext than the reasoning which be had put forth. His argument about not paying 30 s s s
 Mr. Plunkett  said, it was impossible for his hon. and learned friend to address any assembly without deeply riveting its attention. His hon. and learned friend possessed powers which enabled him to give an interest to any circumstance which he thought was connected with the subject of debate, and to press into his service arguments and matters, which, in the hand of any other person, would be deemed foolish and irrelevant. The truth of this had perhaps, never been more strikingly exemplified, than by the uninterrupted attention with which the speech of his hon. and learned friend had been listened to on the present occasion. It would be his (Mr. P's) task to draw back the attention of the House to the question before them, from the consideration of which they had been diverted by the speech just delivered. The House would excuse him if he did not attempt to follow his hon. and learned friend, supposing he had the ability to do so, through the unexpected range which he had taken. The question was not with respect to the actual relations of this country with Russia, Austria, Italy, Turkey or Greece, or the relations which we might hereafter have with Russia, in the event of a revolution taking place in Poland; the question was not what was or what might be the state of Europe, but whether the Alien bill should be allowed to continue in force for two years longer. He felt that a considerable difficulty was imposed on him in presuming to offer his opinion upon a subject involving so many constitutional questions. The difficulty of his situation was not a little augmented, by the tone which had prevailed in the debate of a former night, as well as upon the present occasion, which was of such a nature as almost to render it necessary for any person who proposed to sustain the measure, to enter on a defence of himself. [Much cheering from the Opposition.] And he was compelled to do this, too, the House would give him leave to say, under
 1106 1107 1108 ne exeat regno. 1109 1110 1111 1112 1113 1114 1115 1116
 Lord J. Russell  could not help expressing his surprise, that if, as the hon. baronet stated, so large a majority of the meeting were opposed to this proposition, he had not himself brought forward some counter resolution. The truth was, and it was, a melancholy truth, that persons not of the lowest order, nor seditiously inclined, but possessing considerable property in the county, found themselves in a state or approaching ruin, and in the wreck of their fortunes, upon hearing any proposition which bore the appearance of relief, they caught at it, as drowning men catch at straws, without any intention of injuring the government or the constitution of the country. With regard to parliamentary reform, he had been applied to by several of his friends to know whether it was his intention to renew the motion which he had lately made, and he now begged to state, that upon the first favourable opportunity he would renew his attempt to effect a just, necessary, and constitutional reform. With respect to the part of this petition, which prayed for a just reduction of the interest of the public debt, he knew of no such as a just reduction of that interest, and considered parliamentary reform wholly unconnected, with the public debt. Even if he were disposed to say that late war was entered into, and persisted in against the will of the great majority of the people—a proposition which he was by no means ready to admit,—he should still contend, that that House was the legal representa-
 1081
 Lord J. Russell  said, he was ready to retract the word "consent" if the noble marquis wished it, but he really was not aware that the noble marquis was such a critic in language. He thought that the Whigs had been carried away by the feeling of the whole meeting, which feeling had been mainly produced by the measures of the noble lord opposite.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he had studiously qualified his expressions, by stating that he meant not a gratuitous necessity, but such a necessity, as would be felt alike by all parties in that House. He meant to put the strongest possible case of necessity; such a case, for instance, as when we were utterly unable to pay the interest of the debt, or when the presence of a foreign enemy at our gates rendered the independence and safety of the country paramount to every other consideration.
 Mr. Ricardo  was clear, that if the public creditor had at one time received 30 s s s s
 Mr. Bennet  said, that no vote of his had ever gone to defraud the public creditor or debtor. Let the noble marquis mark that!
 Mr. H. G. Bennet  said, he would repeat, that the public had no right to pay more than they had borrowed, and that if they borrowed 20 s s
 Mr. Brougham  observed, that when the men of Kent were blamed for calling for a reduction of the interest of the debt, we should recollect what had been done by parliament on former occasions. With respect to the prayer of the petition he could not agree to it. He thought that, in justice and good policy, we were bound not to touch the principal, and to pay the interest as long as we could; and he doubted not that if economy were practised, we should be able fully to satisfy the public creditor, without severely pressing upon the people. But if this economy and reduction did not take place, then would come that necessity which would prevent the possibility of his being paid. The right hon. secretary had praised the manner in which the petitioners had made the request, and had said, that it was more manly than any round-about and insidious attempts at the same object. If the right hon. gentleman meant to allude to the intentions of gentlemen on his (Mr. B's.) side, he must tell him that he was wholly mistaken; but if he wished to apply them where they were so well deserved, let him look around and he would there find the abettors and supporters of a fraud carried on by insidious,
 1091
 Mr. Brougham  said, that however objectionable or unjust the proposition of the petitioners might be, it was not more so than the conduct of the noble marquis respecting the restriction, and the subsequent resumption of cash payments.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that two objects seemed to be in the view of the noble lord opposite, and the worthy baronet, one to cast blame on the leaders of the Whig aristocracy; the other, to attack all public county meetings through the sides of the Kent meeting. And well they might
 1084 1085
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that whatever might be urged against a paper currency, this country would never have been able to carry on the war to the extent it had done, without its aid. Like Oliver Cromwell, who, finding that he could not purchase provisions for his forces, voted a general fast, the chancellor of the exchequer, finding that he had not a sufficient quantity of gold, voted that paper was equal to it in value; and it became so much so, as to answer his purpose. This, however, was no reason why the argument should be turned against those, who, feeling the evils brought upon them by the system,
 1090
 Mr. J. Martin  thought that nothing could be more insulting to parliament, than to call upon them to do that which those who made honest. As he believed that a great majority of the petitioners were ignorant of the effect of what they asked, he would consent that it should be received. Feeling, however, that the demand was in its nature unjust, he trusted that parliament would not separate without expressing their opinion upon it. They had, the other evening, declared that they would not debase the coin of the country: let them now agree to a declaration, that, they would not defraud the public creditor.
 Mr. Monck  would go as far as any man for the payment of debts public or private, and would live on bread and water to discharge them; but the public faith had been first broken in the year 1797, when paper had been substituted for the metallic currency. The contracting of 800,000,000 l
 Mr. J. Smith  was convinced, that the great body of the freeholders of the county were incapable of supporting so flagitious a proposition. It was a severe mortification to him to find that the county of Kent was the first to come forward to petition parliament to break faith with the public creditor.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the words of the petition could, in fairness, be construed to mean no more than a similar reduction in the interest of the debt to that lately made by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The right hon. gentleman had reduced the interest of the 5 per cents to 4 per cent, and had hinted that then per cents might ultimately be reduced to 3. Now, there was no reason to suppose that the petitioners did not mean such a reduction. When ministers had plunged the country into a state in which those who not long ago were in a state of comparative comfort, had no prospect before them but a gaol or a poor-house, they ought not to be over critical about the terms of a petition.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that such opinions with respect to the payment of the public creditor should be held by his hon. friends; but, though he differed from them, he could not shut his eyes to the fact, that
 1092
 Mr. Honywood  said, that there was not one person in the county who was aware of the intention to introduce the obnoxious clause into the petition.
 Mr. Honywood  said, that a noble friend of his would also have explained to the meeting the fatal consequence of the proposition, had it not been that he was fatigued by being squeezed up waggon.
 Mr. Honywood  rose to present a petition from the county of Kent, complaining of Agricultural Distress, and praying for Parliamentary Reform. There was a concluding paragraph tacked to it, the introduction of which no man regretted more sincerely than himself; he meant that rider which called upon parliament to make a reduction in the interest of the national debt, as soon as that House should have reformed itself. Had government, two years ago, adopted that economy and retrenchment so loudly called for by the distresses of the country, they would never have heard such a sentiment from the freeholders of Kent.
 Mr. Honywood  said, that this petition did not emanate merely from the Whig leaders. The requisition had been signed by a number of persons who had never called themselves Whigs, and who were once the enemies of reform. With respect to the rider, be had opposed it at the time, and he utterly disavowed the sentiment it contained.
 Mr. Peel  said, he never did deal in underhand insinuations. He had adverted to propositions made in that House, both by the learned gentleman, and by the hon. member for Shrewsbury, founded on a supposed necessity, when the public faith could not be preserved. Such anticipations were calculated to produce that necessity, which never should be contemplated in that House, any more than in private life it should be contemplated, that a case of highway robbery might be justifiable.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  admitted, that the meeting was numerous and highly respectable. The meeting was convened for the purpose of considering the distressed state of the country, and the expediency of parliamentary reform. The meeting took place, and very little was said about agricultural distress, but a great deal about reform. Every thing went on peaceably, until a gentleman (he supposed he must call him so, for he said he was a freeholder) thought fit to propose the rider alluded to. In his opinion, it was the lamest rider a Whig horse ever had to carry. When the clause was proposed to the meeting, a considerable pause, as if of astonishment, ensued. Sadie time elapsed before any body had the confidence to second the motion. At last an individual seconded it. During the whole of the time, the great Whig leaders who had called the meeting were silent land expressed no opinion with respect to the clause. A noble lord (Darnley) opposed the rider, as recommending a breach of public faith, and no doubt With a feeling of strong repugnance at seeing the aristocracy of the county dictated to by such a character as Cobbett. Had his honourable colleague and the noble lord called upon the meeting to oppose that rider, they would have vindicated the high, character and unblemished honour which the county of Kent had ever maintained. The person who moved the rider had stated, that the main object of parliamentary reform was, a reduction of the interest of the national debt. If that was so, his objections to parliamentary reform were strengthened and confirmed. He was perfectly persuaded that this disgraceful rider would never have been adopted, if the Whig-
 1080
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that if his hon. colleague had joined him in opposing the proposition, or met him half way, Cobbett and his amendment would have been consigned to merited disgrace.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, that no man who consulted his own personal satisfaction would think of addressing the House at any length, with such a thin attendance of members, and particularly after its patience had been nearly exhausted by the alarming nature of the subject which had engaged its attention for the greater part of the evening. They had been occupied in considering one of those unhappy contests between different classes of the same community, some of whom were endeavouring to shift the burthen from their own shoulders, on those of their neighbours. Such attempts, how, ever unwise in their nature, nevertheless went to prove the extent of that misery, which could so far goad men's minds as to make them assent to propositions which a little calm consideration would induce them to reject. Such subjects were calculated to excite the anxious attention of parliament; but that upon which he now, rose to address them possessed no such attraction; particularly as it had been so frequently discussed within a few years. Still, however, Alien bills had never been brought to their present stage, and the grounds upon which they were
 1093 1094 1095 1096 de medietate linguœ 1097 Stare super vias antiquas, 1098 1099 Non meus hic sermo; 1100 espionage 1101 extra-tradition 1102 "fuge crudeles terras." 1103 1104 "while European freedom still withstands The encroaching flood which drowns her lessening lauds, She sees fir off, with an indignant groan, Her native plains and empires once her own." 1105
 Mr. Scarlett  was surprised, that his right hon. and learned friend should have ar-
 1117 toto cœlo of ne exeat regno capias 1118
 Mr. Robinson  was of opinion, that the existing law was bad, and that no law could be framed, that would not be evaded, and lead to perpetual interference between the employer and the employed. In some cases, masters might make payments to their labourers in provisions which were bad, but there was no way of preventing this but by the imposition of penalties; and, notwithstanding all the penalties that could be imposed, still it might be possible to evade the law. If such a law were to be re-enacted, he would object to it, upon the ground that it was at once unnecessary and inefficient.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  thought the law inefficacious and unnecessary. The competition of trade was as full a protection to the workman who was paid in provisions as to the man who received his wages in specie.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  begged to ask a right hon. gentleman, what farther relief was contemplated for the distresses of Ireland; and how the funds already ob-
 1124
 The Lord Advocate  said, he considered the bill consistent with the report of the committee up stairs, and that it went directly to remedy the evils complained of. He would receive with attention any amendment which was calculated to remove the grievances complained of, but he would oppose himself to any violation of the chartered rights of the royal burghs.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  perfectly agreed with the right hon. baronet, that this was not a mere pecuniary question. The importance of the subject lifted it above the ordinary rules of financial calculation. The question was not, whether a sum of money should be advanced to Ireland. The Irish government were endeavouring to give relief in every possible way: not with strict regard to the principles of political economy, for unhappily the case was one that compelled them to set all ordinary rules at defiance. Engineers were engaged to see what works could
 1126 l
 Lord Binning  said, it could not be denied by any man, that the charters in question were originally granted for the benefit of the parties receiving them. The object of the present measure was, without trenching upon them, to remedy the abuses which had crept in, and become as it were established under the sanction of custom. It had been urged that these charters were in themselves injurious, and had been often violated on former occasions. To this proposition he never could assent. If the convention of Scotch burghs had ever interfered, it was an interference without authority. It was under these impressions that the committee had acted, in preparing the new system of regulation which had been submitted to the House.
 Mr. Maxwell  argued against the system. He considered its origin as being a revolution, though made by a king. Its first institution was the act of a weak king, advised by an imbecile set of counsellors. He approved of that part of the bill which imposed fines in cases of corrupt practices.
 Lord A. Hamilton  declared his decided opposition to such a bill as the present being considered in any degree adequate to redress the abuses complained of by the inhabitants of the royal burghs of Scotland, and confirmed by the three reports of committees of that House. To call it a remedy for these admitted abuses, was a total misapplication of terms. No two things could be more opposite than the reports of the committees of that House and the bill of the learned lord. The bill referred only to the accounts of the burghs. Now, the regulation of the accounts did not constitute a tenth part of the admitted abuses in the administration of these burghs. It did not meet the paramount abuse of self-election, from which alone so many mischiefs originated. The learned lord was mistaken, if he thought such a measure would satisfy the petitioners. Since its introduction almost every royal burgh had petitioned against it. Not a solitary petition had been presented in its support. It was not in the nature of things, that with the feeling of burgh reform that existed in Scotland, such a bill could satisfy the just claims of the people.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought it impossible to renew so obnoxious an act. Mr. Owen prided himself upon having introduced the provision system. He had opened a shop at New Lanark, in which he sold the best commodities to his workmen cheaper than they could be obtained elsewhere; and he was persuaded that the practice was a beneficial one.
 Mr. Littleton  presented two petitions, one from the miners, iron-makers, and coal-masters of Dudley, praying, that the House would enjoin a more strict observance of the law, which directs that labourers should be paid only in money, and not in provisions or other commodities. The hon. member complained that the law was open to perpetual invasion; that it exposed the poor man to the hardship of taking such provisions, and at such prices, as the master chose; and that when the House came to legislate between the labourer and his employer they ought to be tender of the interests of the former. The health and industry of the poor man were his only portion, and, therefore, the House Should
 1123
 Lord Stanley  thought the measure injurious, as tending to excite misunderstanding between the labourer and the employer, which was very injurious to the former, as a labourer when turned out of one establishment could not easily find employment in another.
 Mr. Goulburn  assured the right hon. gentleman, that, from the moment the Irish government determined to assist the people, every course had been taken which could expedite such assistance and render it available. A committee had been formed in Dublin, by order of the lord lieutenant, to communicate with those districts in which the greatest distress prevailed; and certain funds which had been left in the lord lieutenant's hands against exigency, by the act of 1817, had been immediately placed at that committee's disposal. In addition to this, he (Mr. G.) had submitted a measure for the employment of the poor upon public works. That measure was divided into two branches: the one empowering the lord lieutenant at once to use all sums which had been presented by grand juries for such public purposes: the other, placing a farther sum of 50,000 l
 Mr. J. P. Grant  denied that the bill was at all founded on the reports of the committees of that House. Those committees detailed a variety of abuses to which the present bill not even adverted. As to chartered rights, he knew of no rights, in virtue of which self-elected magistrates assumed the power to vote them-
 1127
 Mr. Monck  objected to the payment of workmen in commodities, but not to paying them in provisions. On the continent, the practice of farmers was, to pay their labourers as much as possible in provisions; and the same practice would be extremely beneficial in this country. His hon. friend (Mr. Curwen) had adopted it with the greatest success.
 Mr. John Smith  said, that, from facts which had come to his knowledge, as a member of the London Tavern committee, he could not but be surprised at the speech which the right hon. secretary had just delivered. The Dublin committee might have done all in its power, but it had not done sufficient in the way of relief; for the last accounts from Ireland were more calamitous than ever. He would state facts to the House, on which it might rely. In the county of Clare, there were now 99,639 persons subsisting on charity from hour to hour. In Cork,
 1125
 Mr. Hume  denied that the bill afforded the smallest chance of relief. No effectual relief could be given, unless by a modification of the absurd and dangerous principle of self-election. The defect of this measure was, that it did not go to the root of the evil. Its remedies were mere palliatives: the great spring of all the mischief was left untouched, provisions were enacted which could be of no real use, and proceedings in the Exchequer were to be instituted against a corrupt magistrate, which might not terminate, before the parties had descended into their graves. A great deal had been said with regard to the sacredness of chartered rights. Under this name, malversation, and all the varieties of abuse, had too long enjoyed impunity. It was not possible to point out a more wasteful or unjustifiable expenditure than that of the Scotch burghs. To correct this, was the avowed purpose for which the bill was introduced. The chartered rights, held up as worthy of so much reverence, had been violated whenever it was deemed expedient. What he complained of was, that this measure went to perpetuate that root of all the evil and corruption which they deplored, and the existence of which was no where denied—the power of self-election. Against the continuance of such a power he protested, and he must declare himself grievously disappointed that the learned lord had not introduced a more efficient measure. The learned lord had neglected the opportunity of realizing a permanent good for his country, and establishing on a solid basis his own reputation. Since, however, there were parts of the bill which some of his friends conceived might be beneficial, he would not resist its farther progress, although he feared that the effect would be, to perpetuate the system of self-election, and doom the inhabitants of Scotch burghs to a continuance of the abuses set forth in their petitions.
 Mr. Hume  said, the practice in Scotland was, to pay in provision, and he had never seen that practice attended with ill consequences. He trusted the law would be repealed.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that in the county of Limerick, out of a population of 67,000 persons, 20,000 were subsisting on charity. However great the sums placed at the disposal of the London Committee, it was impossible, even if they trebled their amount, that they could do more than relieve the present suffering, and that only in a very slight degree. He trusted that measures of employing the poor would be resorted to, and speedily; for while the legislature deliberated, the people perished.
 Mr. W. Smith  could not but approve of that part of the measure by which legal proceedings might be commenced against a corrupt magistrate, and in the event of conviction a penalty of 500 l
 Sir E. O'Brien  said, that if an effort was not made to relieve the Irish before harvest, they would fall upon the new crop so eagerly and prematurely, that next year would be equal to this in misery.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that unless means were found to employ the population of Ireland, the foundation of an ulterior evil would be laid, which would not only exist through this or through the next year, but would strike at the root of all industry for a long period to come. Large as the means, and great as the benevolence of this country unquestionably were, those means and that benevolence were incapable of affording efficient relief, unless the means of existence were drawn from the immediate neighbourhood of the sufferers. The aid that might be afforded ought to take the shape of reward for labour, rather than that of a boon to mendicity.
 Mr. Courtenay  said, that the petition did not represent the feeling of the county of Middlesex, but emanated from individuals actuated by the worst motives. He denied, on the authority of the chief judge of the court, that any fees had been taken by the chief clerk, which were not sanctioned by act of parliament. Even if such a grievance bad existed, it was not a subject for the interference of parliament, since there was a specific mode of redress pointed out by the act. Under these circumstances, he should move, that the petition be rejected.
 Dr. Lushington  asked, whether it was candid to attribute malignant motives to 4,000 individuals, and to move for the rejection of the petition, upon the unsupported  ipse dixit 1147 s
 Mr. Bennet  thought, the House was bound to inquire into the allegations of the petitioners.
 The Attorney General  stated, that the act of parliament specified the legal fees, and in the event of exaction, the remedies. The petitioners should therefore have sought redress in the mode indicated by the law.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that if the petitioners had confined themselves to the grievances, he should not oppose the reception of the petition; but when they attacked the character of the judge, on  ex parte
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that to reject the petition of the 4,000 persons was, to use a common saying, carrying the joke a little too far. It was, forsooth, to be rejected because it implicated the learned gentleman who presided in the court. But, was not his character much more likely to be affected by a refusal to receive the allegations of 4,000 persons who declared themselves to be aggrieved?
 Mr. Dennis Browne  said, he was a warm friend to the principle of a commutation of tithes, but had never heard a speech so well calculated as that of the hon. mover; to destroy those feelings which happily prevailed, for the purpose of promoting so desirable an alteration in the tithe system. He therefore cautioned those who were determined to press that consideration upon parliament early in the ensuing session, how they listened to the hon. member, or associated themselves with the revolutionary sentiments which he had just avowed. That hon. member had disclaimed the principle of commutation, as not being enough for his purpose; but nobody besides himself had ever whole tenure of the church property of Ireland. He earnestly implored his countrymen. To vote against the motion, which was calculated so completely to mar their own word, and utterly to disconnect themselves from any liability of being deemed participators in those revolutionary and monstrous measures which the hon. member had propounded.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) apprehended danger from the possibility of a premature pledge by that House being misconceived in Ireland. Was there not however a much more aggravated danger to be apprehended, in the state of distraction and despair to which Ireland was reduced, when the people of that ill-treated country learnt that the House had refused the pledge? If that was
 1195
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that the amendment proposed by his right hon. friend appeared to him to be both premature and dangerous. His hon. and learned friend opposite (Mr. Brougham) had stated, that the members of that House had placed the stamp of their rejection upon the proposed bill. He knew nothing of such a rejection, but he was sure that if an unjust cry was not raised against it, it would be productive of benefit to Ireland. But he should like to know what measure was to proceed from the wisdom of the gentlemen opposite. What plan were they inclined to bring forward? His right hon. friend (sir J. Newport) admitted that the clergy were not too amply paid; but the hon. member for Montrose denied that, and said that they were too largely and too liberally paid. How could they then agree upon any measure? He maintained that principles both dangerous and alarming had been laid down in that House that night, amounting to nothing less than spoliation and robbery. [Cheers.] He was glad that that position was cheered. What! would it be denied that tithes acted on the same basis as rents? Was the lay impropriator entitled to tithes?—["Yes!" from Mr. Hume.] Then upon what principle deny that tithe to the church which was allowed to the lay impropriator? He wished to address his right hon. friend opposite. His mind was above the vulgar arithmetic which would stoop to countenance such an assertion. He was sure that his right hon. friend was incapable of maintaining such doctrines. If they were true with respect to tithes, they were true with respect to the land-holder, and the fund-holder, and to every corporation: and that which was to be commenced by spoliation and robbery was to be effected by rebellion and resistance. [Cheers.] The hon. members opposite cheered; did they
 1196
 Mr. D. Browne  said, he should vote for the amendment.
 Mr. S. Rice  referred the House to the distinct pledge given by Mr. Perceval on this subject, as well as to a similar one made by the present lord Maryborough some years since, on a question from the hon. member for Queen's county. He
 1193
 Mr. Secretary Peel  did not believe, that the present motion was calculated to promote tranquillity in Ireland; for if parliament were to give such a pledge, and should aftewards be unable to redeem it, the worst consequences might result from the disappointment of the hopes which it would excite. He objected generally to the principle of giving pledges in one session as to the course which parliament would pursue in another. He had given much consideration to this subject, and he felt himself bound to state, lest his opinions should be misconceived, that a commutation of tithes was liable, he would not say to insuperable, but to very great objections. He protested against the whole statement assumed in the speech of the hon. member for Montrose. Scraps of newspapers, cases in courts of law, and petitions presented to that House, were not authority to which he was disposed to pay much respect. He entirely protested against the principles laid down by the hon. member.
 Colonel French  entirely concurred in the amendment, but conceived that the Irish ought first to be permitted to try the operation of the present measure.
 Mr. Ellice , in rising to second the motion of his hon. friend, could not refrain from the expression of his gratitude to him, for forcing upon the attention of the House this most important questions He came into the House prepared to support the motion of his hon. friend opposite (Mr. Daly), and he regretted that that motion had been abandoned. He knew, indeed, the deep interest which his hon. friend always took in the affaire of his native country, and the integrity of his views; but he lamented that a question so deeply involving the interests of Ireland Should be postponed by gentlemen who were so much more nearly interested in the condition of their own people. He was the more strongly impressed with the necessity of adopting some conciliatory measures for Ireland, when he found they were called upon to re-enact the frightful and odious insurrection bill, for still coercing that unfortunate country. When he saw such a state of things it struck him, as an Englishman, that if his constituents were suffering all the horrors of famine, oppression and misery, which now afflicted that unhappy country, it would become his imperative and uncompromising duty to force upon government, even if he gave his general confidence to any set of ministers, the immediate necessity of instituting an inquiry into the grievances of the people, and at least of affording that redress, which a reform of this odious system promised, while they
 1179 1180 1181 1182
 Mr. Dawson  conceived the amendment was premature.
 Mr. Brougham  contended, that all the grounds of resistance to the motion stated by the right hon. gentleman furnished the strongest materials on which to found the propriety of its being carried. The ministers of the Crown afforded no hope as to any specific relief. All they pro-
 1194
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to express his decided disapprobation, both of the original motion and of the amendment. The object of the amendment was to pledge the House to take the subject of tithes in Ireland into its consideration early in the next session, with a view to assign to the clergy a full and liberal equivalent, fairly assessed and levied. He would not then enter into a discussion whether it was possible, considering all the various and complicated interests that were involved in this subject, to come to any satisfactory system of commutation But be was sure that every gentleman would admit, that if such a system were practicable, it would require great and serious consideration; it would demand full and patient inquiry, and that it would be necessary to make provision and arrangements for the equivalents for tithes, which were to be considered in very different points of view, because they were applied to parishes placed under very different circumstances. With regard to the abstract question of the commutation of tithes, if it was proposed to proceed upon the principle of justice—if a full and fair equivalent was to be given for the property to be taken away, and if the offer were voluntarily accepted by the clergv—
 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191 l 1192
 Mr. Daly  stated the circumstances under which he had withdrawn his motion and supported the amendment because he preferred a pledge from parliament to the partial measure brought forward by the secretary for Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  immediately rose, and said, that as the hon. member for Galway had declined proceeding, it was his intention to avail himself of the opportunity to bring the subject of Tithes, and the Church Establishment of Ireland before the House. It was well known, that he had long ago given notice of a motion on this subject; but he had delayed it in deference to his majesty's ministers, till he should see what measures they would bring forward. 1148 l 1149 always bearing in mind, that those who had vested interests in that property were justly entitled to enjoy them, That was a point on which he wished distinctly to be understood. 1150 1151 * * 1152 * 1153 l l l l l s s s 1154 s s s l s d s s d s s s d s d s s 1155 s s d l l s s s 1156 1157 1158 l l "To the right hon. lieut.-gen. lord
 1159 (Signed) "E. HUNTER, "W. TWIBILL, "Churchwardens." 1160 * * 1161 * l l * † Vol. I, c. 14, page 181. 1162 1163 l l l l l l l l 1164 s l s l l l s s 1165 1166 1167 1168 l l l l l 1169 l l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, he had little to reply to, as he always considered his case made out when, in the absence of arguments, the hon. gentlemen opposite had recourse to hard words. He was, in some degree, prepared for such a course; but he would remind hon. gentlemen, that a man could often see a mote in his brother's eye when he could not perceive a beam in his own. He would remind the hon. and learned gentleman who accused him of spoliation and robbery, that if to meddle with the tithes and to take them away from the clergy was a spoliation and robbery, he himself had, on a former occasion, concurred in the robbery of the church, by sitting in that Irish parliament which took away the tithe of agistment, and also in the British parliament which confirmed that act. So had the right hon. member near him (Mr. Denis Browne). He had
 1197
 Mr. Hume  expressed his astonishment that the first law officer of the Crown should set his face against investigation. They were not the friends of Mr. Heath, who wished to damnify his reputation by the rejection of the petition.
 Mr. R. Martin  meant to vote against it, because he relied upon the justice and wisdom of the Irish government to investigate with all possible attention this momentous subject. They had already proposed a unanimously admitted good; and he trusted they would not stop their career of benevolent legislation.
 Mr. Lennard  presented a petition from 4,000 of the householders and traders of Middlesex, complaining of the conduct of the county clerk of Middlesex. He knew nothing of the truth or falsehood
 1146
 Sir E. O'Brien  supported it.
 Sir N. Colthurst  would also vote for the amendment, but disavowed all participation in the doctrines laid down by the hon. member for Montrose.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that, in the exercise of his duty, he had more than once had to record his dissent from the proceedings of successive governments of Ireland, in consequence of their leaving unremedied many of the evils which agitated the public mind. He was induced to make this remark, because he had heard that evening some gentlemen express their readiness to leave the matter for the present undiscussed, on the sort of promise which had been given on the part of government, to come forward next session, either with a statement of the measures which they might in the mean time have adopted, relative to a change in the system of tithes, or with a fair acknowledgment that none such had been determined upon. His objection to all this was, that upwards of five years ago, the noble earl at the head of his majesty's government had declared in the other House, that government had then for some time had the same subject under their consideration, and that, al-
 1183 l 1184 l l l 1185 1186
 Mr. Kennedy  moved the second reading of this bill; and called upon the lord advocate to prove that the measure proposed was unwise and uncalled for. His objections to the existing mode of appointing criminal juries in Scotland were briefly these. In the first place, the lord advocate had the power of committing for trial, without the intervention of a grand jury. Secondly, in the high court of justiciary, the selection of petty juries lay almost entirely with the judge. The sheriffs, before circuit, sent lists from their various counties to the judge; the judge from those lists, nominated the 45 jurymen who should meet him at each assize town for the purposes of business; and the very same judge afterward, in court, selected from his own list of 45, the jury of 15 by which prisoners were to be tried. The third objection was, that neither prosecutor nor prisoner, as the law now stood, had the power of challenge except for cause. There was not that right of challenge so necessary to the purity of trial—the challenge for supposed prejudice, favour, or affection. If these practices were objectionable in the high court of justiciary, in the minor, or sheriff's court, their operation was still more dangerous. The sheriff, who was judge of that court, selected the jury altogether: he made out the first list, struck the 45, and selected the 15: after this, the verdict was only the decision of a majority; and yet there was no challenge, except for cause, allowed the parties. In Edinburgh, where the sittings of the court of justiciary were permanent, the principle was the same: the judge picked the jury of 15 from lists supplied to him by the clerk of justiciary. The measure by which he proposed to remedy these evils was extremely simple, though two-fold in its operation. He meant to deprive the judge of the power of selection from the 45, leaving the choice of the 15 to be determined by ballot; and, of course, as a corollary upon that proposition, the right of challenge for favour would follow. The hon. member then complained of the opposition which his bill had received from the lord advocate, and read a circular which that learned person had transmitted to the sheriffs of counties just previous to the head courts of May, 1820. In that circular, the lord advocate invited county discussions upon the measure, and intimated that his own opinion was by no
 1201 1202 ex officio 1203 1204
 The Lord Advocate  observed, that the object of the bill was, to render the proceedings in criminal cases in Scotland more similar to the English practice. Now, although such a proposition might be good in theory, yet, unless it was shown that great and serious evils arose from the course now pursued, he thought no sufficient ground was laid for so material a change. Nothing appeared more just than that counsel should be allowed to prisoners on their trial; yet the experience of courts of law, showed that no practical injustice was sustained by disallowing them. The present system in Scotland had existed for a length of Lime which it was now difficult to trace, and he had never heard of its causing the slightest oppression. By the articles of the union, each country was to retain its own laws; and though he did not of course doubt the power of parliament, yet this was a reason for its not interfering on a question which related exclusively to the advantage of Scotland against the sentiments of the people of that country, If the people of Scotland were unanimously against the reform meditated, he thought parliament would hardly adopt the plan recommended. When the bill was brought in, there was not a single petition from Scotland on the subject. He had communicated copies of the bill to the Scotch counties, which held their meetings on the 30th of April, with his opinion respecting it; and, with the exception of Lanark, every county, had manifested a desire that no alteration should take place. The judges were perfectly willing to surrender their powers, if it should be the opinion of parliament that they could not retain them for the benefit of the public. The gentry of Scotland, he was well assured, were averse to any change of the criminal law, and believed that other projects of reform were in view—a belief that was certainly countenanced by some parts of the hon. gentleman's speech. The Scotch system of criminal law would stand the test of comparison with any other. Its chief tendency was to deal mercifully with the accused party: and of this truth he could not furnish a. more decisive illustration
 1205
 Lord Binning  said, that in the speech which the House had just heard, it had been rather insinuated that an old and intimate friend of his had mixed himself up with a late unfortunate affair, in such a way, that on a recent trial the individual in question (lord Meadowbank) was necessarily absent from the justiciary bench. This insinuation rested on a letter, in
 1209
 Mr. secretary Peel  agreed, that the only principle that ought to guide the House was, whether the administration of justice in Scotland could be improved? He was disposed to think that it was not fit to alter the old system of judicial selection; but the more firmly it was adhered to, the more proper did it seem to grant peremptory challenges. He should, therefore, vote for the second reading, and in the committee an amendment could be proposed in order to preserver that part of the existing law with which the House ought not to interfere. As selection, he doubted much whether a better jury might not be chosen by the judge thaw was likely to be obtained by ballot.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that though he meant to oppose the proposition, to was on grounds very different from those just stated by the hon. gentleman. He did not object to this proposition, because he felt any unwillingness to give protection to the manufactures and agriculture of Ireland, but because he thought the circumstances of the case did not authorize protection farther than it had been carried. When, in 1816, he proposed the present duty, he certainly did say, that it was not intended for revenue, but for protection; and if it had not had the effect of a protecting duty, the same grounds on which he then brought it forward would naturally induce him to propose an addition, to accomplish the object he had in view. But that object had been attained as far as it was possible; because, however lower the price of butter might now be than it was some years ago, that article was not the only one that had diminished in value. Every species of agricultural produce had experienced a similar fall of price. And it should be observed, that the foreign butter, to which the duty applied, had also decreased in value; so much so, indeed, that, looking to the existing duty, with a reference to the reduced price of the article, it would be found equal to an impost of 50 per cent.; and if the hon. baronet's proposition were carried, the duty would be then equal to about 75 per cent. If the butter trade of Ireland could not support itself with such a protection as this, he knew not how it could be supported. With respect to the importation of butter from Ireland, so far from being less than heretofore, it was for the last two years, greater than it had been at any period. The importation of
 1213
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that, borne down as Ireland was with excessive taxation, he did not think the principles of political economy, however true in the abstract, could be applied to her. It was true, that a great deal of butter had been imported from Ireland into this country, but it was lying in the merchants' warehouses unsaleable. If protection was not afforded to the butter trade, Ireland would become
 1215
 Mr. Western  reminded the House, that when Adam Smith wrote, England could produce corn and butter as cheaply as any foreign country. The excess of taxation prevented us now from maintaining the same competition, and hence it was that protection became necessary. It was extraordinary that gentlemen should prefer a trade with foreign countries to a trade with Ireland, when it was clear that the latter course would increase the consumption of our manufactures, and thereby promote the prosperity of the country.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that the principle of protection was that under which the commerce of this country had flourished. He did not, however, dissent from the general principles of the hon. member for Portarlington, but he could not help regretting that they should be applied at a moment when they could not but be detrimental to a suffering and impoverished Country.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, the Irish gentlemen complained of want of protection, but what their rule of protection was he could not imagine. In this instance they had a protecting duty of 25 s.
 Mr. Ellice  considered the bill of great importance, and suggested, that the discussion on it should be taken in the committee upon some open night.
 Mr. Twiss  said, he would support the bill the more readily, because it stood alone and apart, and did not necessarily imply that any further changes would be the consequence. The noble lord had adverted to the preliminary advantages enjoyed by a criminal in Scotland; but if at the time of trial he could not obtain a fair and impartial jury by means of the right of peremptory
 1210
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he was glad to find, from the speech of the hon. gentleman, that the government had at last begun to resist the exorbitant demands of the Irish. It seemed to have passed as a matter universally understood, that the people of England were to pay every thing, and the people of Ireland nothing. [Hear, head] It was notorious, that the rents extorted from the peasantry of Ireland, were higher than any that were paid in England; and, to keep up these rents, we were now called upon to tax the butter of the citizens of London. He remembered voting in a minority of five against a duty on the importation of rape seed, in the discussion on which a right hon. baronet below him (sir J. Newport) had gravely argued, that it was right so to tax the clothiers of Yorkshire, as it might have some tendency towards inducing somebody to drain some bog with a long
 1212
 Mr. Monck  expressed his conviction that the only mode of affording effectual relief to the agricultural interest was, not by raising the price of commodities, but by reducing taxation. The protection on the article of butter already amounted to nearly 60 per cent, and he never would consent to go on taxing the consumer for the sole benefit of the producer.
 Mr. T. Wilson  concurred in thinking that the principle advanced by Mr. Ricardo, was not applicable to the present state of this country, and remarked that the butter shipped from Holland was of a better quality than that which came from Ireland.
 Mr. Huskisson  assured the House that he did not prefer the interest of foreign countries to his own, and that if he thought this additional protection would be of real and permanent benefit to Ireland, and of less injury to the country generally, he would give it his support. The hon. gentleman had compared the means of Ireland with those of Holland in the production of this article. Now, the fact was, that Holland was the most taxed country in Europe, not even excepting England. He objected to the present measure, because it would operate no relief to Ireland, and the effect of it would be, not to increase consumption, but, by raising the price of a bad article, to drive it altogether out of consumption. In the present state of Europe, it was peculiarly incumbent upon this country not to set foreigners the example of imposing additional restrictions on trade, but to convince them that it was our fixed determination to pursue that liberal system of commercial intercourse, which had been so auspiciously commenced.
 Mr. Wilmot  approved of the suggestion of the hon. member, and would fix the committal of the bill for the 1st of July.
 Mr. Wilmot  brought in a bill "to make more effectual provision for the Government of the Provinces of Lower and Upper Canada, and to regulate the Trade thereof."
 Mr. Wilmot  regretted that the hon. and learned gentleman should pledge himself to oppose the bill before he had heard the peculiar circumstances which rendered it necessary. He did not think it was necessary to apply to the people of the provinces for their consent to the measure, since their present constitution was derived from an act of the British legislature. He trusted that when the hon. and learned gentleman came to hear the statement which he (Mr. W.) intended to submit to the House, he would withdraw his objections to the passing of the bill.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  observed, that the objections of the learned lord to the bill were on two grounds, general and specific. The general grounds were, in the first place; that the proposed reformation of the Scotch law was founded on theory. This was an argument by means of which the enemies of the most salutary reformation were accustomed to disguise their hostility to common sense. It was the observation of a great wit, that no man was an enemy to reason until reason had become an enemy to him. He believed there were no spontaneous enemies to reason; but when men were interested in opposing it, they used hard words to cover the design, and one of these was the word theory, which was very frequently used of late as argument against every plan of improvement. In the second place, the learned lord objected to the bill on the ground that there was no distinct grievance alleged or proved; and, in the third place, he stated that this measure was not called for by the people of Scotland, and indeed was objected to by them. Now, he would remind the learned lord, that all those objections had been made before, in opposition to that great act of reformation, the abolition of the heritable jurisdictions, and had been set aside by lord Hardwicke, and over-ruled by the British parliament, to the great advantage of the country which experienced the beneficial effects of their enlightened decision. He then read some
 1206 1207 1208 "While e'en the peasant boasts these rights to scan, "And learns to venerate himself as man."
 Sir J. Mackintosh  agreed, that the bill was a most important measure, since its object was, to consolidate the two provinces of Canada, by effecting a union between them; and incorporating their legislatures. He did not mean to object to the course of proceeding suggested; but, without bringing into question the competence of parliament to pass such a bill, or the convenience which might be expected to result from it, he felt an insuperable objection to agree to the measure without affording ample time to the people of the provinces, and the legislatures by which they were represented, to express their opinions with respect to it. He felt alarmed at passing a bill affecting the most sacred rights of the people of the provinces at so late a period of the session. It was the practice of the House, not to pass a private bill affecting the rights of only two individuals before the parties had been sufficiently informed of its nature; surely, then, it would not sanction a measure for uniting two provinces, without affording to the inhabitants the fullest time for expressing their Opinions with regard to it. He would oppose the passing of the bill during the present session.
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, he was extremely sorry that this question had not been brought forward by some member of government. In his opinion, protection ought to be extended to every branch of agricultural produce; and, when it was allowed, it ought to be made adequate, and effectual to the intended object, otherwise it was mere delusion. In 1816, a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Robinson. proposed a duty of 25 s. s. 1211 s. s. s. s. s.
 Sir J. Newport  complained of the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Newton. What had that hon. member stated? That the House was constantly in the habit of granting relaxations to Ireland, more than to any other part of the empire. He denied this assertion, and would contend, that the relaxation of taxes to Great Britain was much more extensive in proportion than that which had been made to Ireland. This was proved by the report of the committee of 1815, which stated, that, since the Union, the taxation of Ireland had increased in a larger proportion, including the war taxes, than that of Great Britain. The hon. member had said, that he would concede any thing to make the peasantry of Ireland comfortable, but he would withhold every boon from the gentry. Now, he believed that the most effectual way of rendering the peasantry happy and comfortable was, to enable the gentry to spend their time amongst them [Hear, hear!]. He did not wish to use harsh terms, but he must say, that those observations had been most inconsiderately applied by the hon. gentleman. With respect to the question itself, they were told, that the consumption of butter had increased. But if four-fifths of that consumption was in favour of Holland instead of Ireland, then the present duty was not a protection, in the sense originally understood. Ireland, it should be observed, had but one manufacture to send to England—her other exports were native to her soil. With that one article she had to pay to England for her manufactures, and to pay rents to that large body of absentees who spent their wealth in this country. In consequence of the system that had been pursued, the exports of woollen from this
 1214 l.,
 The Marquis of Londonderry  hoped he should receive the indulgence of the House while he endeavoured to follow the hon. and learned member through his long and eloquent address. The hon. and learned member had commenced by observing, that the influence of the Crown had increased to the injury of the interests of the country, and particularly as it affected the parliament. It would, however, be for the House to decide how far that influence had been extended, either in parliament or by other means. The hon. and learned member had not only proposed a resolution, but expressed his determination to follow it up, if carried, by some remedial measure. What that remedial measure was to be, the hon. and learned member had not clearly stated. It, however, had slipped out in the conclusion of his speech. And what was it? Why, nothing short of parliamentary reform. This was the question to which the hon. and learned member wished to pledge the House by his resolution. Now, he had no objection in the world to the hon. and learned gentleman's attempting to reform the parliament. It had been attempted before in the course of the present session, and the hon. and learned member had a right if he pleased, to return to the charge; but he ought not to do this under the weak disguise of diminishing the influence of the Crown. Having said thus much, he felt it necessary to observe, that he agreed with the hon. and learned member in some points. He admitted that the influence of the Crown was a just object of parliamentary jealousy. But whatever that influence might be, he maintained that the House was composed of materials too sound and too sound and too durable to be acted upon or corrupted by it. The influence of the Crown might perhaps be excessive; if so, reduce it; but let the question of reform, if at all introduced, be made a distinct and separate question. The hon. and learned member had taken the year 1780, and compared the influence of the Crown at that period with what it was at present. The hon. and learned member had compared the army and navy at the two periods; but he must be allowed to say, that the hon. and learned member had not at all ventured to come to close quarters. The hon. and learned member had in the
 1300 l. l. l. 1301 l., 1302 1303 1304 l. 1305 l. l. l. 1306 l. l. l. l., l. 1307 1308 1309
 Mr. Bennet  said, he rose to address the House with considerable diffidence, after the eloquent and argumentative speech of his hon. and learned friend, and the able speech, for so he must in candour call it, of the noble lord. The noble lord had assumed pretty nearly the same tone which one of his predecessors had adopted when Mr. Dunning brought forward his celebrated motion. But, what was the answer of that House to the then minister? The answer then given was the same which ought now to be given. The minister was left in a minority. The country found that the interest of the Crown, in every department of the state, was too strong for the interest of the people, and therefore the House acceded to the proposition. The noble lord had gone through the different departments of the state, and he (Mr. B.) deemed it necessary to touch upon some of them. What, he would ask, was the amount of revenue at present collected? He did not look so much to the amount, as to the expense of its collection, and the influence necessarily connected with it. In 1792, the expense of collection was little more than one million: in 1822, it was between four and five millions. Was it not, therefore, impossible to deny that the influence of the Crown had increased in the same ratio? There were between 18 and 20,000 civil officers, whom the Crown nominated and paid, and who were directly under its influence.
 1310 1311 l. 1312 * 1313
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose to rescue his constituents from an unjust imputation. The distinguished body which he represented (the university of Oxford) might, he said, refer for an answer to the imputation, to their general conduct. As to the particular facts mentioned by the hon. and learned gentleman, they did not hear out the specific charges. Those charges, he understood, were founded on the election of lord Grenville, as chancellor, at a particular period; and, on their allowing a measure to pass in silence in 1817, which they had protested against in 1807. When they looked at the high character of lord Grenville—to his attachment to our ecclesiastical establishment—to his general line of policy—to his opposition to the principles which had marked Abe early part of the French war—when they remembered the station he had held in the university, as one of her most distinguished scholars, and as a member on the foundation of one of the most illustrious of her societies—and when they considered that his opponent was lord Eldon, the lord chancellor—the learned body that' chose him stood sufficiently vindicated, both as
 1317
 Mr. Brougham  briefly replied. He observed, that the right hon. secretary was naturally anxious to preserve the reputation of those who sent him to that House, but he had been misinformed as to the nature of the remarks on their conduct. He (Mr. B.) had not blamed them for choosing lord Grenville. Quite the contrary. He had said, that lord Grenville was every fit and proper person, for some of those very reasons urged by the right hon gentleman. But he did think, that in spite of all his natural and acquired talents, and of other qualities—all of which in his opinion should be recommendations, but some of which were more likely to be disqualifications at Oxford—if it were not for his near approach to power, lord Grenville would not have been elected. This showed the influence of the Crown out of doors as well as within, and the magnitude of the power it was their business to limit. As to the bill of 1807 they opposed it, not on the score of the king's conscience, but its own merits. He complained much less of those who yielded to those scruples, unconstitutional as such a compliance was, than of those who raised the cry of "No Popery," caring as much for popery as for the king's conscience, and as much for the king's conscience as for the opinions of William the Conqueror. It was the doctrine of the hon. member for Yorkshire, that it was the duty of the House to give its confidence to any ministers until they had proposed some measures that proved them to be unworthy of confidence. This he denied. It was the duty of the House to be satisfied as to the fitness of the persons, before, by their misgovernment, they had led the country into misfortunes. During the last war, the country was, as it were, struggling for life, when France
 1318
 Mr. Brougham  rose to submit his promised motion on this subject. He began by observing, that the House had now for the last six years been engaged very laboriously, and he would not say altogether unprofitably, for the country, but he wished he could add more beneficially, in
 1266 * * 1267 Influence of the Crown, see Parl. Hist. vol. 21.p. 340. 1268 1269 * 1. * 1270 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l.; l. l. l. l. 1271 l. l. 1272 1273 1274 l.; l. l.; l. 1275 l. 1276 l. 1277 l. l. in majorem cautelam, l., l l. 1278 1279 l., 1280 * * 1281 l., l.; l., 1282 l. l. l. l. 1283 1284 1285 1286 "—faithful found Among the faithless—' 1287 1288 1289 1290 de facto 1291 1292 1293 1294 sub silentio, 1295 in prospectu, de facto. Cintra 1296 1297 vox populi 1298 1299
 Mr. Stuart-Wortley  said, if the bill of indictment against the House of Commons, which had been preferred by the hon. and learned gentleman, and the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, was a true one, he should feel disposed to become a reformer, and the sooner they began a reform the better. He asserted, however, that the charge against the House of Commons had been made on false grounds, as the hon. and learned gentleman had assumed reasons for the votes of that House, which, if he had read the history of his country, he might have known were not the real ones. The motion of the hon. and learned gentleman, professing to be for the reduction of the influence in the Crown, really did nothing to that end, but went directly to parliamentary reform.; as did also the speech of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Bennet) who had recently proposed measures for the reduction of that influence. Now, he would say that there was no need of a reform in parliament, and that the gentlemen opposite might not mean to destroy the monarchy, yet that reform must lead to its destruction. If the influence of the Crown was strong in that House, they should recollect that on all important questions the House of Lords had gone with the Commons, except on one important occasion, when the Commons, having attempted to dictate to the whole country, had been successfully resisted by the House of Lords, supported by the people. To come to close quarters with the hon. and
 1314 sub silentio. 1315 1316
 The Lord Advocate  said, he felt it a painful duty to be obliged to rise upon this occasion. There were few men whose conduct had been so arraigned: he believed it had happened to no man before him to be thus arraigned before the Commons of England. Nothing could be more difficult than the task which he had to discharge upon this occasion. He felt that in approaching this discussion, his character, credit, and future happiness were at stake. But, while he said this, he did not mean to complain either, of the manner or the time of bringing forward this motion. He certainly was not prepared, from the nature of the notice given by the learned member, to expect such a statement. He thought from the notice, that there would be merely a general inquiry into the Press of Scotland and no more. When Mr. Whitbread made a motion respecting the lord advocate of that period, he first moved fur certain documents, which put the House and the country in possession of the charge; and the lord advocate was, fully prepared to meet it. With him, however, it was different: he now heard, for the first time, many of the charges which he was called upon to answer. He did not, however, complain of this, but he must be pardoned for saying, that he, owed the learned member no particular, obligation for the course he had pursued. Still he entertained no hostile feeling: he knew the learned member's brother well. Of the learned mover he had no other knowledge than as a member of that House, and an able advocate at the bar; and he was sure that the learned member's character was not likely to suffer from the able manner in which he had introduced his motion. But, in common fairness, the charge ought to have been brought soon after the alleged offence. All the facts were made public ten months ago. In August, 1821, the Correspondence was known to the world. During this interval, it had been said all over Scotland, that he did not dare to face the House of Commons. But, though he had been present on the first day of the session, and for two months afterwards. The learned member had given
 1349 l 1350 1351 primâ facie 1352 l l l 1353 s. l l l 1354 l l l 1355 l l 1356 1357 1358
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that upon all occasions like the present, when individual character and personal interests were involved, they had secured to the individual the indulgence of the House, as far as was consistent with strict justice. Upon such topics it was generally usual, and it was always wise to abstain from topics which appealed to men's passions, and led them from the exercise of their calm and sober judgment. Upon the present occasion the learned mover, not with the intention of doing so in all probability, had appealed to some topics highly calculated to create an undue prejudice against his learned friend. One was his allusion to time widow and children of the late sir A. Boswell, and another to the death of Mr. Scott; an individual who unfortunately lost his life in a similar manner. He did, therefore, think that the learned gentleman would have better discharged his duty by abstaining from the mention of these circumstances. Then, again, he had brought forward the language of Mr. Hope and Mr. M'Neill, used in a private conversation in a private place, and with a private client. He took this to be a very bad precedent to set; and if it had created any prejudice against his learned friend, he called upon the House to discharge it altogether from their minds. Let the House look at the case which it was called upon to decide. A notice had been given by the learned gentleman, that he should call the attention of parliament to the conduct of the lord advocate, as connected with his interference with the public press. It was three months since that notice had been given, and not the smallest intimation had, in the interim, been afforded, that the learned gentleman meant to call in question the conduct of any other persons. The House, then, was bound to discuss the case upon that notice; and they were, asked to decide it upon the single speech of the learned gentleman, and the papers which he had read to the House. He would first allude to the conduct impute to the lord advocate with respect to the paper called the Correspondent. The learned gentleman attempted to show, that, notwithstanding all which had passed
 1359 animus 1360 l l l 1361 extremum jus, 1362 l 1363
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the heads under which he would consider the subject were; first, the connexion of of his learned friend with the press; 2nd, the oppressive transaction in which Borthwich was concerned; and 3rd, the proposition to call two persons before the committee and to make certain inquiries of them. Now, at what time was such a proceeding proposed? At that period of the session, when such an inquiry could not be gone into, with a view to substantial justice. It was proposed, too; on the eve of a legal prosecution, in which his learned friend would be overhauled as to the proprietorship. It was said that inquiry was all that was proposed; but parliament always sanctioned the principle, that it was no small infliction to be sent to a committee of inquiry above stairs. What was imputed to the learned lord was, not any violation of his official duties, but what he had done as an. individual freeholder of Lanarkshire. It had been assumed that the papers were a mass of private scandal, and what all must join in reprobating. But what had been read to the House he would not pronounce a libel without seeing the context. It could not fail to be remarked, that hon. members opposite never complained of the conduct of the press, until they fancied that some particular person or family connected with them had been libelled. He was informed that the Clydesdale Journal was a paper like the Morning Chronicle, which upon a former occasion the learned gentleman (sir J. Mackintosh) had elevated to such a pitch. He understood it was in general a paper of fair character. What the character of the Sentinel was, he did not know, but it was too much to hold his learned friend eternally responsible, for what might be published in that paper. With respect to the Beacon, it appeared that that paper had been established upon good principles, and had for some time been conducted in a manner that could not be complained of. As soon as it appeared that the paper was impro-
 1371 l 1372
 Mr. Abercromby,  in rising to submit his promised motion, said, he could assure the House, that whenever he rose to address them on any subject, he felt it necessary to solicit their indulgence; but on the present occasion he felt it particularly necessary to claim it; seeing that the subject to which he wished to call their attention related exclusively to the people of Scotland. It was a grievance affection them alone; but he trusted that on a great public question; the right of the people of every portion of the empire to a redress of grievances would be fully recognized. If he should be able to show, that the learned lord advocate, and his colleagues in Scotland, had connected themselves with the Press of that country, in a way which was incompatible with the duties of their situations—if he should make it appear that a system had been adopted in that country to traduce through the medium of the press, the public and private character of individuals, by means which every man of feeling must detest, and in a manner which no man who was alive to a sense of honour or character could bear—if he could show that this had been countenanced and encouraged by the learned lord and his colleagues—if he could prove that he had abused his high authority, that the forms of the law had been perverted, and perverted from bad motives—if he could prove these facts to the satisfaction of the House, be did expect that they would not allow evils of such a nature to be without a remedy—even though they should exclusively apply to Scotland. In the course of his speech, he would not state any thing which he did not firmly believe to be a fact. He had a narrative of plain facts to support the conclusions to which he should come. With respect to the time of bringing the motion forward, he had given notice of it before the holidays, but had put it off from the 20th until after a trial, which he should assert was most improperly delayed from time to time. The trial was the expected one of William Murray
 1325 1326 pro loco et tempore," 1327 1328 1329 l 1330 1331 1332 1333 1334 1335 1336 1337 1338 1339 1340 l l l., 1341 1342 pro loco et tempore, 1343 1344 1345 1346 s. 1347 primâ facie 1348
 Mr. Lockhart  concurred with the noble marquis in thinking that there was nothing in the conduct of the lord advocate which could touch his character as a gentleman; but when he was told that there was nothing to affect him as a constitutional lawyer, he must object to that opinion.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, it was painful to him to rise at so late an hour, and, he might add, that it was not very consistent with his temper to offer himself as a voluntary accuser, or as the supporter of any accusation; and he declared, that nothing but a sense of what was due to public justice and public decorum, nothing but a desire to protect private life from slander, and to prevent the field of public discussion from being turned into an exhibition of indecency, vulgarity, barbarity and blood, could have induced him to enter himself as an accuser of a public officer, towards whom he had no hostile feeling. What had always advantageously distinguished this country from other free states was, the decency with which public discussions had been conducted. Occasional indecencies, occasional excesses, these were to be expected, and these were to be found in all parts of history; but systematic attacks on the sanctuary of private life, and systematic violations of the laws of decency, were reserved for our own unfortunate times. The grave question now before the House was, whether the public prosecutor in Scotland had not mixed and blended himself with this criminal system—whether he had not afforded it his encouragement in secret, until he had been detected and dragged to light—and whether the House of Commons could avoid inquiring into the proof that had been adduced? The right hon. secretary had said, that they wished to decide on the speech of his hon. and learned friend: they wished to do no such thing; they wished to inquire. The right hon. secretary said, it was not enough that an objectionable paragraph should have been found in a paper to subject the person who had patronized it to a criminal charge. But, the paper in question had not occasionally broken the law: it had continually, systematically, professedly, dealt in private slander. The right hon. secretary had alluded to a commendation which had formerly been bestowed by him (sir J. M.) on the conductor of a newspaper (Mr. Perry), for having in a long career avoided encroachments on decency, and abstained from private calumny and slander. But, was there a man so un can did as to suppose, that he had meant to assert, that in.40 years of zeal and hurry, the individual might not have transgressed the
 1364 1365 1366 diverso intuitu, primâ facie do minimis non carat lex, 1367 primâ facie 1368 animus 1369 primâ facie 1370
 The Attorney General  said, he was something surprised at the conclusion of the hon. member. Why had he not moved at Once to repeal the act? Why lose his time in taking a committee, when the house had already before it all the materials necessary to its decision? The exertions; of the lord chancellor were too universally acknowledged, to require any description. The learned lord sat from October in one year, to September in another; and often gave up holidays to the despatch of any pressing business. A little attention to the returns before the House would show that, except as to appeals, there was no material arrear of business before the chancellor. The hon. member had cited an instance of an amicable suit which had lasted 12 years. Now, he would put it to any gentleman conversant with chancery practice, whether such a suit, unless under peculiar circumstances, could endure for 12 years. Since the vice-chancellor's court had been established, the lord chancellor had been a good deal occupied in the hearing of appeals: but that must inevitably happen where the power of appeal existed, and where parties were not satisfied. In estimating the quantity of business got through by the lord chancellor, the House ought to look at the number of motions taken before that learned judge. Each motion, in many cases, amounted to the hearing of a cause. Appeals, very frequently, were taken in the share of mo-
 1380
 Mr. Bankes  professed himself to have been a party to the principle upon which the acts of 1813 and 1817 were founded. On the first of these occasions, the hon. gentleman declared there was something so unjustifiable and abominable in the measure adopted, that he could not recur to it without shame. Now, what was that principle? The abolition of useful offices; the reduction in salary of overpaid ones; salary commensurate with duty; and at the same time carefully made adequate as compensation for the duties discharged. The hon. gentleman had said, that, in 1782, Mr. Burke did not act upon this principle. But what Mr. Burke said on, the subject of laying down all useless or overpaid offices, without exception, was this,—that it would be bad service to the state to take away from the Crown the means of tempting talents into its service. As for the hon. gentleman's complaining that these pensions, and compensations had been settled without any message from the Crown, the gentleman could not but be aware, that the Crown must be a party to every bill of this sort. The hon. member had contrasted the bills which he (Mr. B). had brought in, with that which formed the subject of debate. He did not hesitate to say, that believed the two bills which he had formerly introduced, would, if they had passed, have been found more effective than the present bill. The hon. member had assumed, that the existing bill was also his work. This he denied He did not mean to defend the bill altogether: he thought it defective, in several points, and particularly with respects the periods of service, which were too limited. The bill, however, contained much that was good; and, if it were repealed, it would be necessary to return to the state of things which existed before the measure was passed; and, therefore, the object of the motion must be considered to be not so much the repeal of the bill, as the restoration of sinecures. Was the House prepared for this? Would any man deny that the bill had effected an improvement upon the former system; or say, that was not better to have pensions, however large, than to revive sinecures? If the House were to agree to the motion, it would establish a most extraor-
 1391
 Mr. Bankes  said, that the attack made on him by the hon. member was most unfounded. He would appeal to the whole course of his parliamentary conduct against such an insinuation, which, in justice to himself, he must term false.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he had used the words "disgraceful and disgusting" in no other than a parliamentary sense, and did not apply them to the general scope of the argument of the hon. member. When he heard the hon. member compare his noble friend to a doorkeeper, and undertake to prove that all the great families, from the period of the Revolution, had been corrupted by grants, similar to those conferred on lord Sidmouth, he considered those two declarations both disgraceful and disgusting; and though he wished it to be understood that he used these expressions in a parliamentary sense, he did not upon reflection consider that he had at all misapplied the terms.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he could not, without the utmost indignation, listen to the attacks which had been so profusely and so unwarrantably made on the characters of individuals by the two hon. members. Those hon. members could not be ignorant of the inconsistency of their arguments on the question of rewards to public servants. They ought to be aware, that the reform of Mr. Burke allowed of rewards to public servants who had filled high and important situations. The speeches, however, of the hon. members, however they might affect to approve the principle of that measure, presented the most disgusting system of inconsistency he had ever met with; for though they had been sticklers for the bill on a former occasion, which admitted the justice of such rewards, they now came forward to oppose them, with the evident view of attacking the character of a nobleman, in whose case the principle had been applied. The character of his noble friend (lord Sidmouth) was, however, too exalted to be affected by such insinuations; for he would assert, that a more able and efficient minister of the Crown had not existed than he had proved himself. By his talents and exertions he had contributed mainly to the salvation of the country in an hour of danger and peril. Having those opinions with respect to the character and talents of his noble friend, it was not without feelings of disgust that he had heard the gross attack upon him, in which he had been compared to one of the door-keepers of that House. Such language never ought to have been used in the observations of one gentleman upon
 1393 1394
 The Marquis of Londonderry  rose to order, and said—When any hon. member uses the word "dare," as applied to any remark made by any other member, I apprehend it is quite inconsistent with the order of parliamentary proceedings. If the term is applied to any observation used by me, it is irregular; for at the time of my making a remark which could call for such en expression, it was the learned member's duty to have interrupted me. The learned member has neglected to do so, and I now appeal to the chair whether he is regular in the expression he has used.
 Mr. H. G. Bennet  said, that with every possible contumely, he returned the term "false," in every sense in which it was used by the hon. member.
 Mr. H. G. Bennet  said, he considered the bill a fraudulent measure. Under it, very few offices had been abolished, and not many regulated. He objected to the whole of the present system. He had satisfied himself by inquiry, that since the Revolution, all the great offices of state had been given as bribes to families, for the support of ministers when they had lost the confidence of the country. Those offices were not bestowed as rewards for public services, but as pay for political prostitution. He chiefly objected to the present bill, because it held out inducements to political adventurers to enter that House, who, by prostituting the talents with which Providence had gifted them, arrived at situations of rank, and, after two years' service, retired upon a pension for life. He must deny that the country would be a loser by the repeal of the bill. He did not believe that the House, even constituted as it was, would agree to a pension of 3,000 l 1392
 Mr. Brougham  said, he rose to protest against the tone and language which the noble lord had dared to use.
 Mr. Brougham  maintained, that he had a right to impugn any minister of the Crown for presuming (if he must be driven from his former word) to accuse a representative of the people, engaged in the honest discharge of his duty, in language such as no member of that House had, ever ventured to employ. Disgraceful! disgusting! There might be some members who deemed his hon. friend's speech disgraceful, but he (Mr. B.) was not one of them: there might be some who considered them disgusting, but he belonged not to that class. It was one thing, however, to think, and another to utter such language; and never in his life had he heard such expressions uttered in that House as those which had been launched by a minister of the Crown at the head of a representative of the people. He should feel for any member who was treated in this most novel and unparliamentary, fashion; but, in the present instance, he felt for a dear, long tried, and much valued friend, for whom he entertained all those sentiments to which the excellence of his heart, the manliness of his character, and the inflexible integrity of his public conduct justly entitled him. With respect to the general question, he would only
 1395
 Mr. Twiss  said, that all the arguments now advanced against the vice-chancellor's bill had been anticipated at the time when that bill was first brought forward, but which were not then considered powerful enough to prevent the House from adopting it. Since the erection of the vice-chancellor's court, the entire number of matters disposed of by the lord chancellor was 11,320, by the vice-chancellor 17,881. The appointment of the vice-chancellor's court had reduced the arrear of causes less than one half. He therefore saw no reason for carrying this restless activity of change, so much the rage of the day, into the highest court of law in the realm. In a great judge they were not merely to look at the number of causes dismissed within a year, but to the effect of his judgments in the way of precedent. He would venture to say, that when the decisions of the present lord chancellor should be consulted by future lawyers, they would be looked up to as monuments of legal excellence.
 Mr. John Williams  said, that with respect to the dispatch of business in the court of the learned lord, he was com-
 1381
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that what he had stated remained unanswered, and he would, year after year, take the sense of the House upon the subject, if he should divide but two.
 M. A. Taylor  said, he was encouraged, in bringing this important subject under the view of the House, by the, result of a similar proposition of his in the last session, which had been negatived by only four votes. He trusted that on the present occasion, the House would agree
 1375 l l l l 1376 1377 1378 1379
 Mr. Creevey  said, he rose to submit to the House the consideration of the Ministerial Pension bill of 1817. He had formerly moved certain accounts as grounds of ulterior proceedings which he would now propose for repealing the bill. No task could be more difficult than to call upon that House to take away 42,000 l 1382 l l l l l l l l l 1383 1384 l 1385 1386 l l 1387 l s l l s l l l., l l l 1388 l s l l l 1389 1390
 Mr. Creevey  said, that as the hon. member for Corfe-Castle had moved as an amendment, that the House should proceed to the other orders of the day, and as his (Mr. C.'s) object was to put his resolutions upon the Journals, he should merely band up to the Speaker his first resolution. If it was negatived, he should then move his other resolutions, as the other orders of the day were proposed to be read. He did not, however, intend to divide the House upon any of his resolutions, except the first.
 The Speaker  said, that, undoubtedly, if the use of the word "dare" were to be interpreted in the sense in which the noble lord took it, it would be quite disorderly; but the House would allow him to say, that the term was one which was frequently used in debate without any offensive intention on the part of the member using it.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  did not rise for the purpose of opposing the mo-
 1404
 Lord Cranborne  said, there were several
 1398
 Alderman C. Smith  thought the bill objectionable in many parts, and that it pressed too heavily on the publicans.
 Mr. Monck  would support any measure calculated to check the monopoly of the brewers, the effects of which fell entirely upon the poor, who were often obliged to drink a deteriorated and unwholesome beverage, and that, too, at a dear rate.
 Mr. Calcraft  objected to the clause which gave an appeal to the quarter sessions, in case of licences, from the decision of the petty sessions. Unless this clause was withdrawn, be would oppose the bill.
 Mr. Peel  said, there were several useful regulations in the bill, and therefore he hoped it would pass; but he wished the hon. mover would consent to withdraw or modify the clause which, took the discretionary power from the magistrates.
 Mr. Bernal  said, it was using the bon, mover rather hardly to say that this bill was not in favour of the publicans, seeing it was founded on the petitions of many of that numerous body, and the committee was attended by their solicitor. He thought the clause restricting the discretionary power of the magistrates most salutary.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  complained of the wanton acts of authority, which, under the present licensing system, often deprived men who had committed no offence, of the means of livelihood; and said, that such an act as a man's not taking off his hat to the parson of the parish, might cause him to lose his licence. They could not, therefore, too soon put under proper control this arbitrary power of the magistrates.
 Mr. Bennet  vindicated the principle of his bill, which, he said, went to destroy the monopoly of the brewers, to break down corrupt influence, to prevent the arbitrary destruction of property, and take away from magistrates the power of doing that in dose chambers, which they dare not do in open court. These principles remained in the bill as at first, and were not affected by the alterations which he had been induced to adopt. It was, therefore, rather hard that members who at first supported the bill, should
 1399
 Mr. Wilberforce  began by observing, that as parliament had some years ago come to a determination to abolish the Slave Trade, it was incumbent upon it to endeavour to make the measures it had agreed to for its abolition as complete and effectual as possible. For that purpose, application had been made to several foreign powers for their assistance, and the object of his motion was, to obtain the production of the correspondence which had taken place between them and this government. The hon. gentleman proceeded to take a review of the policy which had been pursued by the various European states, and by America, with reference to this interesting subject. The Cortes of Spain had, in a manner highly creditable to themselves, passed a law, inflicting a severe penalty on any one who should be found dealing in slaves, and directing the instant manumission of the slaves themselves. He was unable to speak with equal praise of the conduct of the old government of Portugal. That government had long resisted the applications of the British government on the subject, until at length, wearied out with the intreaties of the latter, the Portuguese government had consented, on the understanding that they should receive some commercial conces-
 1400 1401 1402 1403
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that though it was much to be lamented that a great opportunity had been lost by the government of this country for putting down the abominable Slave Trade, yet he was bound in candour to say, that since the summer of 1815, the noble lord and his colleagues had not been wanting in their exertions to put an end to the traffic. But where solemn treaties had been entered into and shamefully violated, he could describe such conduct by no other name than perfidy. Where declarations were made in the face of Europe in favour of the abolition of the Slave Trade by the very powers who afterwards promoted that trade, he could give to such conduct no other name than that of hypocrisy. He lamented much to say, that the continental governments had proved that they were proof against all the statements of atrocity that from time to time had been made. In violation of solemn treaties, they persisted in promoting that abominable trade. The only hope that remained of bringing them to any sense of shame or justice, was by frequent appeals to the feelings of civilized men. Those governments were now placed beyond the reach of human justice; and their crimes could not be punished by human laws; but perhaps they might not always be in a situation not to feel and to dread the execration of mankind. With respect the government of Portugal he could scarcely say that that government had been guilty of a breach of, faith. From the beginning Portugal almost bade defiance to the moral judgment of Europe. At one period, indeed, Portugal sold to
 1405 1406
 Mr. Secretary Peel  did not know whether, it was incumbent upon him as secretary of state, to answer the question of the learned gentleman; but as the personal friend of Mr. Saurin, he could not sit silent after it had been asked. As might naturally be expected, he was not prepared either to admit or dispute the genuineness of the letter in question. He could believe the learned gentleman, when he said, that it was with pain and reluctance that he came forward to take notice of this document—a document purporting to be private, and yet found in the public streets—a document which the person who found—if such, indeed, were the fact,—ought to have returned to the owner, instead of publishing it as he had done. He could not say, he repeated, whether the letter was genuine or not; but this he would say, that he would rather, ten thousand times over, be the person who wrote that letter, even though it were ten thousand times worse, than the person who, after finding it in the street—if, indeed, he did find it there—made so infamous and disgraceful an use of it.
 Mr. Lyttleton  considered the advantage to be gained by retaining the trifling remnant of this tax, to be by no means equal to the inconvenience attending the pressure of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that an arrangement which, when first proposed, appeared to give general satisfaction, should be disturbed by this amendment. If the House determined on the total repeal of this tax, he should be compelled to abandon his resolution of repealing a part of the leather tax. He was satisfied that a partial repeal of both taxes would be more beneficial than the total repeal of one of them. He had been accused of a desire to retain the tax, on account of the patronage; but the fact was, that the Treasury had nothing to do with the patronage. The officers were all appointed by the board of Excise. The saving, on the head of collection, in case of a total repeal, would be very, inconsiderable, as the officers employed for this tax were employed also for other purposes; and very few of them could be dismissed. The Irish fisheries were under none of the restrictions which had been complained of; so that the argument as to the inconvenience in that respect, fell
 1410 l
 Mr. Wodehouse  objected to their clinging to the wretched remnant of a tax, the produce of one-fourth of which must be spent in paying the officers who collected it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had always made the reduction of the leather tax dependent Upon the measures adopted regarding the salt tax.
 Colonel Wood  said, he should always vote upon principle against isolated motions for repeal of taxes. Instead of sweeping away different taxes, the proper way would be to lower all taxes, to a certain extent.
 Mr. Scott  said, that the time had arrived for taking off many of the burthens imposed on the people during the course of the late war. There were two modes of granting relief from taxation. The one was by taking off taxes altogether; the other by reducing them, and retaining a little of every tax. He was in favour of the former mode, because, if an entire tax were taken off, it would relieve the people more than if the same nominal amount were remitted from two different taxes. If a tax were reduced, so as to leave 200,000 l s s d
 Sir F. Ommaney  approved of the partial repeal of the salt tax, but could not vote for its total abolition. Government had made great efforts to contract the public expenditure; and much individual suffering had been the consequence. Let the House look at many of the public servants who had been employed 14, 15, or 20 years. They were reduced to a
 1412
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he would endeavour to call back their recollection to the evening when his right hon. friend brought forward his proposition for a relaxation of the taxes, and when he (lord L.) congratulated the House on the unanimity which that measure appeared to produce. He would ask, when his right hon. friend afterwards proposed new measures with respect to the leather tax, and to the salt tax, with reference to the fisheries, whether there was not a tacit pledge that the latter subject would be pursued no farther? After what had been done by his right hon. friend, he did not think the gentlemen opposite had taken the tone which they ought to have adopted on this occasion. They ought not now to take advantage of what his right hon. friend had previously done, to press for other measures which could only retard and embarrass the business of the country. There was a very great distinction between the situation in which they now stood, and that in which they were placed at the commencement of the session. They ought to consider what quantity of taxation had already been remitted, and how far the House was bound by its own acts to preserve the interest of the public creditor. At one time it was an option between tax and tax; but that was no longer the case; and election had been made, and it was with reference to that election that the reduction of the 5 per cents took place, which enabled ministers to give up the leather tax, and to grant other relief. That transaction was placed on the records of parliament: it was the most important financial measure of the session, and now formed a part of the law of the land. Therefore, though originally it might have been an option between the salt tax and the leather tax, it had ceased to be so; and to call for a repeal of both would be a virtual retractation of the votes given in the present session. He was happy to find that his right hon. friend had, with that manly firmness and integrity which belonged to his character, refused to give up the salt tax. After having offered his resolution to the House
 1413
  Mr. S. Wortley  said, that if called upon to make an election betwixt the total repeal of the salt tax or part of the leather tax, he should prefer voting for the total repeal of the salt tax; although he did not think that the repeal of either of them would much benefit the country.
 Mr. Lushington  said, the question was, whether the House would disturb the financial system which his right hon. friend had recently introduced? His right
 1411
 Mr. Wetherell  said, he would oppose the motion, because, without going into a consideration whether the leather tax ought to be preferred to the salt tax, he thought, that tax after tax could not, with safety to the country be remitted.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he had that morning read in the public papers an account of a transaction, which, whether it were true or false, was of such a nature, that every man who had a due regard to the prerogative of the Crown, the privileges of parliament, and the purity of the administration of justice, must see it could not be allowed to pass without notice. He alluded to a letter purporting to be written by William Saurin, at that time filling the high situation of attorney-general in Ireland, and purporting to be addressed to no less a personage than lord Norbury, the chief justice in the court of Common Pleas in the same country. The purport of the letter was con-
 1407
 Mr. Brogden  brought up the report on the 12th resolution, relative to the payment of the naval and military pensions.
 Mr. Curwen said, that government ought to attend to the strong call of the country to abolish the remnant of the Salt tax. The continuation of this tax, could not be for the sake of revenue. Patronage was the real object. For so paltry a sum as 200,000 l.,
 Mr. J. Smith  supported the amendment, but was anxious that the surplus of revenue should not be abandoned, lest public credit should be prejudiced.
 Mr. Leycester  said, that the disinclination evinced to relinquish this duty, appeared to him to be a part of the ministerial horror of plentiful produce and abundant markets. There could be little doubt that this obnoxious remnant of taxation was retained at the solicitation of the collectors of it. The repeal of this tax would purchase for ministers the good humour and good opinion of the country; and as these commodities were evidently growing dearer and dearer every day, the right hon. gentleman could
 1409 l l l.,
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that on the western coast of Ireland the people found no market for their labour, but in the manufacture of kelp. H stated this in behalf of the famishing population of that part of Ireland, assuring the House, that if this remaining duty on salt were repealed, the whole of the persons in that part of Ireland would have no 'market whatever for their labour.
 Mr. Denison  wished this odious tax should be repealed. He was anxious that the public creditor should receive his dividends, and thought that every effort ought to be made punctually to pay him, but when that had been made, all had, in his opinion, been done, that was necessary.
 Lord Althorp  contended, that it was impossible for the Chancellor of the Exchequer, with any regard to his own character, to carry into effect his threat not to relieve the country from any part of the leather tax, if the whole of the salt tax were repealed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it might be thought requisite for him make some apology to the House for submitting to it the general state of the financial operations of the year, before it had acceded to a large portion of the estimates which it was generally thought necessary to pass previously to any winding up of the statement of the public expenditure. It had generally been deemed proper to go through the whole of the votes of Supply before the Ways and Means were submitted to the House, containing a review of the operations of finance by which they were to be substantiated. He was obliged, however, to deviate from that course on the present occasion, owing to the late period to which the session
 1414 1415 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1416 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1417 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1418 l l l s d l l l l l l l l l l 1419 l l l l 1420 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1421 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Maberley  said, that the sinking fund was put forward by the right hon. gentleman, as what he might call the  hocus pocus minus l l l l 1424 l l s l l l 3 l l l l 1425 l l l
 Mr. Grenfell  begged to put a question regarding the Austrian loan, from which he was sorry to see no sum carried to the credit of the year. Last session the noble marquis had held out a hope that something might be obtained; and, certainly, when the debt was contracted, more solemn assurances of good faith could not have been given. In the whole, reckoning principal and interest, it was, he believed, 17 millions. He apprehended that some bonds were given at the time of the loan, and there seemed no reason why they should not be put up to auction: no doubt speculators would give something for them, and however little, it might be applied to: the public service.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that a negotiation was still in progress. From the state of the Austrian finances a moderate compromise only could be expected. It would be too much for him to give any assurance that some arrangement might possibly be made, but still he was not absolutely without hopes upon the subject.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that when he beard that it was intended to introduce this measure to the House, he stated that he
 1434 1435 principiis obsta 1436 1437 1438 "nisi antea publice prohibiti," "publice." "publice prohibiti" 1439 his 1440 1441 1442 1443 1444 1445 "For Satan, now is wiser than of yore, "And tempts by making rich—not making poor." 1446 primâ facie, 1447
 Mr. F. Robinson  said, the hon. member contended, that the present measure was inconsistent with the liberality and hospitality of the English character; that it was brought forward under false pretences, in subservience to the views of other states, and for the purpose of aiding them in preventing the general diffusion of liberty. The main ground on which he had rested his argument, that the bill was inconsistent with the spirit of the British constitution, was the language of Magna Charta. Now, the right conferred on aliens by Magna Charta was a right accompanied with an exception and a qualification, which proved that our ancestors, who established the right, foresaw Ate possibility of cases occurring, in which it might be necessary to impose restrictions. It could never be justly contended, that the law of England was tyrannical and oppressive, because it did not extend to foreigners those rights and privileges, which the natives of this country enjoyed. He denied that the conferring of this power was any, impeachment of those virtues of liberality, hospitality, and generosity, for which this country was distinguished. Could it be fairly imputed to any individual, who opened his doors to a party who sought
 1448
 Mr. John Williams  said, he objected to the bill in every point of view, but he felt that no objection to it was more striking than the very principle on which it was recommended for adoption. The right hon. secretary and the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, both called upon the House to invest the government with a dangerous; because discretionary, power, on the presumption that it would not be absused. Setting aside mere insinuation and surmise, not a single direct allegation had been made to prove the necessity of this bill. The right hon. gentleman had said, that particular emergencies might arise out of a particular crisis, but lie had not had the nerve to state that those emergencies had arisen, and surely it would be time enough to invest ministers with extraordinary powers when such a period had actually arrived. The learned gentleman opposite (Mr. Plunkett) had contended for the right of the sovereign to send foreigners out of the country by analogy, from his supposed right of restraining his subjects from quitting the country and he had referred to the writ of  ne exeat regno ne exeat regno 1450
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he could not but think this bill had been opposed in speeches of outrageous exaggeration. He had never before given any vote on the measure, as feeling really incompetent to decide either on its necessity or its utility. But though he was by no means carried away by the extravagant declamation of the hon. and learned member for Knares-
 1451
 Mr. Lushington  said, before he f had heard, the statement of his right hon. friend, he was satisfied, from his own knowledge of the public accounts, that there was what the hon. member for Portarlington described to be the only true sinking fund—a surplus of income, above all expenditure, of five millions. According to the judgment of the hon. member for Aberdeen, there was no surplus whatever; in the opinion of the hon. member for Portarlington, there was about one million surplus; but he thought he could convince him the real amount was very different, even according to the hon. member's own mode of stating it. He had stated the expenses of the army, navy, ordnance, miscellaneous, extra expense in Ireland, and Greenwich hospital, to amount to 17,815,000 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1431
 Mr. Calcraft  thought the right hon. gentleman had forgotten, in taking credit for 530,000 l l l l l l
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the chancellor of the exchequer had held out great hopes of what was to be expected from the sinking fund, and had stated, that a mere accident only had prevented all those hopes from being realized this year, but that next year we should receive its full and effective benefits. He (Mr. R.) feared, however, that we should go on as well had done, and that some accident or other would continue to prevent us from enjoying those benefit which the
 1428 l l l l l l l l l, l l l l l l l l 1429 l
 Mr. Ellice  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the result, if result it could be called, of the statements of the chancellor of the exchequer. He did not think that any gentleman would derive consolation from the determination to which government had come of keeping up the establishments of the country as they at present existed, without any reduction. The right hon. gentleman had told them, that the charge for 1824 was to be exactly the same as the charge for 1822. The second part of the result in question, was the state of the sinking fund.
 1426 l l l l l l l l l l l l 1427 l s l s d
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if; instead of dealing in fulsome panegyrics on his colleagues, the hon. secretary to the Treasury had come at once to the pinching view of the subject taken by the hon. member for Abingdon, he would have rendered more service to his colleagues than he had clone by the eulogiums which he had thought fit to pronounce upon them. What had these admirable ministers accomplished by all their unheard-of labours? The finance committee of 1817 had estimated the expense of the establishments of that year at 17,550,000 l l l l l l l l l 1433
 Mr. J. Martin  declared be would take the sense of the committee upon it.
 Mr. J. Smith  declared himself friendly to a sinking fund. When they looked at the amount of the debt due to the public creditor, they must he satisfied that a sinking fund could alone tend to its extinction. It was on this account that he had ever felt disposed to advocate the principle of keeping up the funds at the highest price. The right hon. gentleman might thus hope reasonably enough, that he should be able to reduce the interest due to the public creditor. There were two ways of effecting such a reduction of interest. One of them he should denominate as fraudulent and scandalous, as one which would involve the country in ruin, overthrow all the institutions of the country, and prove effectually destructive to the landed interest. The second, and the more equitable mode, was, to raise the price of stock so high that the individual creditor should be contented to take a smaller interest on his debt than he had received before. If government performed its promise on the subject of economy, he was not without hope that the 4 per cent stock might be reduced to a lower rate of interest, and perhaps the 3½ per cent. stock reduced to three. With regard to the present distresses of the country, he saw no reason to suppose that they would be permanent: he had never known any article at an extremely low price that did
 1432
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the chancellor of the exchequer had hinted that he would give it up, if some other tax were substituted. As the wishes of the country had been so often expressed against lotteries, he thought 200,000 l
 Mr. Hume  considered the nominal amount of the debt to be of much less consequence than the actual yearly annuity which the public had to pay in perpetuity. In 1815, the clear permanent charge of the funded debt was 27,638,902 l l l l 1430
 Mr. W. Smith  was of opinion, that if lotteries were continued, one commissioner only was necessary. All of them had not been able to prevent their secretary from appearing on the list of public defaulters.
 Mr. Wodehouse  commenced by observing, that in 1802, five shillings covered all the expenses to which the maltsters were liable for their licences. Afterwards a gradual increase had been made in the price of them, until they now cost 4 l s l s
 The Chancellor If the Exchequer  re-
 1457
 Lord Folkestone  thought this a partial repeal of Mr. Peel's bill. Its object was to get one-pound notes into circulation. The House by passing it would incur afresh all the dangers of multiplied forgeries. He therefore trusted they would pause before they gave their sanction to it.
 Mr. Dennis Browne  agreed, that the taking off the house and window tax would increase the revenue by inducing the return of absentees; but he must object to it at the present time, because the reduction of such an amount of income would go to shake the public credit.
 Mr. Calcraft  thanked his hon. friend for having brought forward this motion in so very able a manner. It was, he was aware, a reduction of 2,700,000 l.,
 Mr. Maxwell  said, that in his opinion, ministers had brought themselves and the country into great difficulty by a return to what they conceived to be a sound currency. The only way of inducing absentees to return to this country, was to take off the taxes which rendered it impossible for them to reside here. He was satisfied that the  eau medicinale
 Sir R. Wilson  protested in the most unqualified terms against the measure, and trusted that an early day would be fixed for its discussion.
 Lord Folkestone  said, the House would bear in mind, that when, at the opening of the session, this measure was introduced, the reason alleged for its introduction was, that Ireland was in a state of insurrection, and even of actual rebellion. Now, he would take the liberty of stating, that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus had not been carried into effect in a single instance. The information upon which the act had at first been passed, had been meagre; and the noble marquis opposite had pledged himself that the whole state of Ireland should be gone into. Many members had, no doubt, voted for the measure upon the faith of this pledge, which had not been redeemed. The noble marquis and others had said that Ireland was in a state of absolute rebellion. This had, however, been denied by the attorney-general for Ireland, who had described the whole disturbance in Ireland as being contemptible. The House had thus been induced to pass the bill under false pretences. The noble lord then referred to the papers on the table, in order to show that the state of Ireland had, instead of improving, become absolutely worse under the operation of the measure. The turbulence and violence had no doubt been put down, but then the putting of them down had been only temporary, and the spirit of the people had not been corrected. It would be dangerous to render permanent a measure which conferred such powers, and which had been found not efficient. [Mr. Goulburn said, it was intended to continue the measure only for one year]. One year would not be sufficient for ascertaining whether the measure would be beneficial or not. It had already been in operation for five months, and it had not done any good; there was, therefore, no presumption in favour of a measure which should continue for a year. He thought it wrong to delay the discussion, as the government, or at least several members of it,
 1500
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he had never declared that the state of Ireland did not call for the measure in question. He had only observed, that the disturbances in Ireland were in no way connected with religious feeling.
 Mr. Denman  complained that the measure would be putting Ireland for ever out of the pale of the constitution. He thought the clause which refused costs to those who had been successful in actions against magistrates under the act, was peculiarly objectionable; and that, for the purpose of removing that and other offensive clauses, the bill should be entitled a "Bill to continue and amend the act in question."
 Mr. Lushington  denied that the bill had been improperly hastened, and said, that at the desire of the hon. member for Bristol, the third reading had been suspended for a week, as he wished to have an opportunity to look into its provisions, and yet he allowed the bill to pass in silence. The bill went to prevent harassing suits, and the hon. member for Bristol would find, that if it were repealed, his constituents would be in a worse condition than before.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said:—In rising to propose any reduction of the taxation of the country, I am aware of the many objections which may be made to me, and of the many difficulties which naturally oppose any such proposition. I am aware that it is said, and undoubtedly with some reason, that nothing can be more vulgar, as nothing can be more easy, than to point to the diminution of the public burthens as the only measure that can make the nation happy and prosperous. The topic is, I must confess, sufficiently
 1459 "—is twice blessed, It blesses him that gives and him that takes." 1460 damnantur votis * * 1461 "—rerum primordia pandam, Unde omnes  netura Quoveeadem rursum  natura 1462 l l l l 1463 "Serit arbores quæ alteri sæculo prosint." 1464 1465 
 
 GREAT BRITAIN. 
 Taxes and loans 119,570,620 
 Charges of management 3,663,622 
 IRELAND. 
 Taxes and loans 7,455,239 
 Charges of management 1,039,731, 
 Total £.131,629,111 l 1466 1 l l l l., l One billion, four hundred and sir millions, four hundred and thirty-six thousands, one hundred and forty eight pounds sterling. * 
 
 * 
 1793 £17,658,418 
 4 17,170,400 
 5 17,308,811 
 6 17,858,454 
 7 18,737,760 
 8 20,654,650 
 9 30,202,915 
 1800 35,229,968 
 1 33,896,464 
 2 35,415,096 
 3 37,240,213 
 4 37,677,063 
 5 45,359,442 
 6 49,659,281 
 7 53,304,254 
 8 58,390,255 
 9 61,538,207 
 10 63,405,297 
 11 66,681,366 
 12 64,763,870 
 13 63,169,845 
 14 66,925,835 
 15 69,684,192 
 16 70,421,788 
 17 59,437,259 
 18 57,650,589 
 19 59,667,941 1467 l l l * l l l 
 
 20 58,680,251 
 21 59,769,680 
 22 60,686,676 * 
 
 Years ending 25th March. 
 1793 £244,064,335 
 4 251,988,783 
 5 267,635,345 
 6 326,833,921 
 7 371,119,039 
 8 398,051,408 
 9 432,605,789 
 1800 447,620,128 
 
 Years ending 5th January. 
 1801 479,046,141 
 2 522,228,729 
 3 540,668,080 
 4 551,368,256 
 5 575,310,723 
 6 604,535,141 
 7 625,130,227 
 8 637,738,420 
 9 648,024,192 
 10 658,360,665 
 11 666,665,446 
 12 682,805,104 
 13 713,357,041 
 14 794,326,522 
 15 817,633,616 
 16 863,031,371 
 17 847,206,875 
 18 838,767,526 
 19 840,738,518 
 20 840,313,885 
 21 838,607,743 
 22 831,557,493 1468 * * 1469 1470 s 1471 1472 1473 l l real l 1474 1475 l l 1476 l l l l l., 1477 1478 l 1479 1480 ad valorem l 1481 1482 1483 l l l l d d s s d s d s d 
 
 Rent. Windows. Duties 1797 Duties 1820. Addition per cent. 
 Houses of £.50 25 9 0 £ 22 10 2 150 
 50 30 10 0 26 14 2 167 
 50 35 11 0 30 18 2 180 
 50 40 12 0 35 19 2 200 
 100 25 11 10 29 11 10 157 
 100 30 12 10 33 15 10 172 
 100 35 13 10 37 19 10 181 
 100  40 14 10 43 0 10 196 1484 l l 1485 1486 l l., l 1487 l., l l l 1488 l., s s s s d s d., s d 1489 1490 l onus 1491 l 
 1. "That it appears to this House, that the present amount of taxation is so burthensome and oppressive as to make it the duty a this House to adopt every means by which, without detriment to the state, that taxation may be reduced: 2. "That the benefits supposed to be derived from the establishment of the sinking fund are illusory, and that to impose or continue any additional burthens on the people for the purposes of its support, is highly inexpedient and unwise: 3. "That the tax levied on windows in Great Britain is unjust, unequal in its operation, and most oppressive to those especially who are least able to bear it; and that it appears to this House, that the said tax should be forthwith and immediately repealed."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the proposition went to the destruction of the sinking fund, and the annihilation of public credit. If any thing could make it more inexpedient, or more to be rejected by that House, it was, that it would be a most unjust departure from all those pledges which the House had
 1492 1493
 Mr. Maberly  denied that the opponents of ministers were constantly making attacks upon the public credit. He repelled that charge most distinctly. He and his friends were anxious to reduce taxation, but it had never been hinted, that it was to be reduced at the expense of any particular class. He said, that public credit ought to be maintained, and that if the public purse contained 60 millions annually, the public creditor was to be allowed first to put his hand into it and to take out 30 millions. What the opponents of ministers complained of was, that the other 30 millions were not properly expended. The right hon. gentleman contended that the people did not complain. How could they complain? Or if they did, of what use would it be, when that very complaint would be the signal for sending in executions for unpaid taxes? They paid only because they could not help it, and because the House turned a deaf ear to their petitions. As the public creditor would have been obliged to bear all losses, so he was entitled to enjoy all advantages; and it was not the opposition, but the ministry, who endangered public credit, by dragging from the people more than they could afford to pay. With respect to the great reductions since the peace, he must observe that the capital of the country was better able to bear 17,000,000 l 1494 l
 Mr. Wynn  expressed his surprise at the position so broadly laid down by the hon. gentleman, that not a farmer in the country could pay his rent. If this were so, how happened it that when farms were to be let, there was still great competition for them, and that there was never any difficulty in finding tenants? The pressure upon agriculture was heavy, but not to the extent stated. For his own part, he had always been anxious that the establishments should be diminished, and brought as nearly as possible to the standard of 1792. The army at present was greatly below what in 1817 it had been thought possible to reduce it, with a due regard to the security of the country. The hon. gentleman asked, why were not the current expenses reduced? Did he recollect that the pay of the army had been very properly augmented since 1792; and did he wish that the public security should be hazarded, by now attempting an unjust reduction of it? True it was that the price of provisions had fallen, but it would be a considerable time before the price of other articles, and particularly the price of labour, would accommodate themselves to the price of provisions.
 Mr. Robertson  contended, that it was impossible the country could go on under the present system, by which posterity was to be burthened for the sake of relieving ourselves. This system began with the American war, and if continued the nation must be ruined. Was it not better to meet the difficulty boldly and manfully, and not to shuffle if off upon our successors? He looked with much ap-
 1495
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  contended that the act in question had not been hurried though the House, and declared that nothing could be farther from his intention upon any occasion than to take parliament by surprise. He was glad that there was a clause in this act enabling the House to reconsider it this session. The object of that clause, he would frankly confess, was, to make the tax local as well as personal.
 Mr. Bright  thought the motion of the hon. member was of a very important nature, and that the country was deeply indebted to him for bringing it forward. It appeared to him to be only necessary to bring the act in question before the House to obtain the repeal of it. He particularly, complained of the manner in which it had been smuggled through the House.
 Mr. Curwen  hoped his hon. friend would not oppose a measure which was calculated to afford great benefit to the country. He knew that people generally preferred small notes to gold.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that in consequence of what had occurred with regard to this bill, it was his determination to move, next session, that it be a standing order of the House, that no bill, authorizing any taxation, or the regulation of any taxation, should be read a second time without being previously printed.
 Mr. Monck  was of opinion, that the sinking fund was injurious to, the public, and not beneficial to the national creditor. Nine out of ten placed their money in the funds as a matter of mere investment; and all they wanted was, to have their interest secured. Instead of laying on fresh taxes to support a sinking fund, he would say, reduce taxation as a boon to the fund-holder, whose comforts and enjoyments must be increased in proportion as he found his income increase in value. The security of the public creditor did not depend on the sums paid into the Exchequer, but on the ease and facility with which those sums were raised and collected. If the collection of the revenue created discontent and disquiet in society, then he would say, that the situation of the fundholder was one of very great uncertainty. He should support the motion, although he could not agree that the repeal of the house and window tax would be so beneficial to the agricultural and manufacturing interest as the removal of some other taxes. He should, for instance, like the duty of 10 s l 1498
 Mr. Hume  did not take the gloomy view of our situation which had been taken of it by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He believed the resources of the country were sufficient to make it rise superior to all its difficulties. Let those resources be properly managed, and this might become the happiest country in the civilized world. But with this statement he must couple the declaration, that our affairs were not so administered as t lead to such a result. The system acted upon for the last thirty years, had brought the country to its present situation. He complained of the manner in which its finances were managed. The confusion which prevailed with respect to them, was strikingly exemplified on the preceding night, when three or four gentlemen, who spoke on the budget, had all taken different views if that which ought to have been so plain that no men who had learned the common rules of arithmetic should be able to differ about it. He, however, congratulated the House that next year the chancellor of the exchequer proposed to put an end to the sham sinking fund. He and his friends had been contending, that the right hon. gentleman's sinking fund was not a Teal sinking fund; and the right hon. gentleman himself admitted, this year, that a real sinking fund could only be formed from a surplus over the expenditure. Where was this surplus?—and what had the tight hon. gentleman been doing but lending himself to as complete a humbug as ever was practiced on any set of men. He agreed with the chancellor of the exchequer that the Excise duties were generally of a voluntary description. The increase in the Excise, coupled with the fact that individuals might, if they pleased, refuse to contribute to the Excise taxes, formed a strong proof that the country in general did not feel that depreciation which affected some branches of its industry. He was anxious that the chancellor of the exchequer should leave the voluntary taxes, and repeal those tint were involuntary. The House and Window tax was one of an involuntary nature; every
 1496 
 
 Window-tax House-tax 
 £ s. d £ s. d 
 1792. England 927,630 12 11 163,412 18 2 
 Scotland 31,963 1 0 6,702 19 9 
 1798. Eng. 1,416,891 17 4 210,816 0 0 
 Scot. 61,757 4 6 9,548, 0 0 
 1813. Eng. 2,325,455 0 0 1,037,634 0 0 
 Scot. 154,550 0 0 66,494 0 0 
 1820. Eng. 2,417,683 0 0 1,166,343 0 0 
 Scot. 147,525 0 0 86,720 0 0 l l; l l l l 1497
 Mr. H. Davis  supported the bill, on the ground that the currency was not abundant.
 Mr. James  said, that as the people were to have the option of receiving either bank notes or sovereigns, those who were so silly as not to demand gold in place of paper, deserved whatever might happen. He thought the bill would sanction a return to everlasting payments in paper, and he would divide the House upon it.
 Mr. James  observed, that by the law as it at present stood, Bank of England One pound notes would cease to be a legal tender after the 1st of May next. He wished to know whether the present bill would make such notes a legal tender beyond that period.
 Mr. W. Smith  seconded the motion.
 Mr. W. Smith  insisted that the bill had been smuggled through the House, like several others introduced by the Treasury.
 Mr. Marryat  rose to present a petition from certain ship-owners of London, complaining that British shipping was not sufficiently protected in the South Sea. It appeared that the governments of Chili and Peru were at present at variance, and each had declared the coast of its enemy in a state of blockade. The vessels of Great Britain were thus placed between two fires; and the consequence was, that many of them had been captured by each of the hostile parties. The books at Lloyd's exhibited numerous proofs of the depredations committed upon British commerce. The Lord Collingwood vessel had been captured and condemned at Porto Rico. The causes assigned for this proceeding were, that the vessel was trading in the South Seas without a license from the government of Spain, and moreover that it was carrying on trade with the enemies of that government. Another great source of injury to British commerce was, the pirates who infested the West Indies. The hon. member read a description of the treatment which a British vessel had received from a piratical cruiser. After stripping the vessel of every thing valuable, and making the captain deliver all his money, the pirate cut and destroyed all the rigging and left her. The pirate, however, afterwards returned and demanded more money from the captain, who not being able to furnish them with it, was dreadfully wounded by their cutlasses, and afterwards hung up to a part of the rigging by rope tied round his
 1859
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that unless the petitioners suspected the government of supineness, and believed, the admiralty to be their enemies, he thought the best course they could adopt, would be to endeavour to open the eyes of the Admiralty upon the subject. He deprecated the discussions which arose upon such petitions, as tending to expose British shipping to greater risks than they at present ran. The hon. member who presented the petition desired that British cruisers should be converted into a kind of roving court of Admiralty, to adjudicate in all cases where vessels were retaken from pirates. It was said, that this
 1861 1862
 Mr. Groker  said, that the hon. gentle-
 1864 1865
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was not possible for the government, whatever might be its exertions, to protect our commerce from all inconvenience during the continuance of the present hostilities. There was now a war between Spain and her colonies, and while that war continued, our ships would be subject to the right of visitation and search, unless we denied that right to others which we vindicated for ourselves. While visitation and search might be carried on, our vessels must be subject to occasional vexation and inconvenience in the manner of executing it, and to liability to condemnation, if the laws of war were violated; for if a neutral vessel entered the port of a belligerent that was  de facto de facto, de jure, 1866 de facto de jure
 Mr. Bright  said, he could not acquit the Admiralty of supineness. It, was stated, that this was a question with independent powers. He denied the fact. There were two questions; the first with Chili and Peru, which he admitted to be independent states: the second, with the pirates on the island of Cuba. The noble lord and his colleague said, "If we find out pirates, we know how to deal with them." He would ask, what did a pirate mean? Did it mean a small vessel coming suddenly out of a place of concealment, her crew armed with swords, pistols, and knives, robbing defenceless vessels, plundering their cargoes, and hanging up their crews?
 Mr. Bright  said, he was then to understand, that if a vessel were provided with simulated papers, and hoisted any flag the crew thought fit to assume, she was not to be treated as a pirate, although she had committed dreadful outrages. If that were the case, there was an end of all security on the sea; for nothing could be more easy than to fit out a vessel under these false pretences, and to rob and plunder every ship that was inferior to her in force. When the crew of a vessel perpetrated acts which were unknown to civilized war, she must be considered  primâ facie
 Sir G. Cockburn.  —If such a vessel had proceeded from Spain, under Spanish colours, she would not be a pirate. Spain
 1863
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that in the instances in which America had restored vessels, they had just before been taken by the pirates. The schooner Despatch had been acting as a pirate before it was captured by the Spanish ship. Our admiral had no right to interfere. Most of the vessels which came under the description of pirates were prepared with regular commissions from recognized belligerent powers. It was said that the American vessels pursued that pirates into their strong holds. The reason of this was, that the keys lay on the American coast.
 1860
 Mr. Robertson  said, that the money had been lent at a most extravagant and usurious rate. He therefore must deprecate the interference of parliament to compel the payment of it.
 Mr. Plunkett  thought the petition was a fit subject for a committee. A  primâ facie
 Mr. Wigram  said, that the company ought not to be called on in this matter. It was nothing more than an account between the vizier and the parties who had been thus concerned with him. The vizier alone, or his representative, could be answerable for it.
 Mr. Wynn  thought there was such a  primâ facie 1504
 The Marquis of Londonderry , seeing an hon. member in his place who had given notice of a motion respecting the Chief Baron of Ireland, wished to ask him if he would object to postpone his motion to an early period of the next session? Under the present pressure of business, he thought
 1501
 Lord A. Hamilton  did not mean to say that the company were liable for the whole debt; but it appeared to him that they were liable to pay a part of it.
 Mr. Wetherell  regretted to hear language which was calculated to excite a suspicion that this money had been advanced in the most questionable manner. The money was borrowed to pay a subsidy due to the company. The company was therefore bound to repay that part of the debt for which the territory was mortgaged, as a security, to the Calcutta bankers. Convinced of the integrity of the parties lending this money, and the liability of the company to pay this debt, he should support the motion.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought it would be most impolitic to grant a committee.
 Mr. Brougham  said, the hon. secretary to the board of control had put the question on its true footing. This was not a question of liberality, but a strict claim of right, and could not be decided by any judicial tribunal.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the claim of the petitioners arose out of a loan made by them to the Nabob of Oude, on the security of his territories. The money so advanced was borrowed to pay certain subsidies to the East India Company, and, being so paid, came into its coffers. The territory upon which the money was advanced had since been partitioned, and half of it had come into the hands of the company. Though the revenue of the territory thus acquired by the company amounted to 3,000,000 l
 Mr. Hume , instead of looking upon this as a matter fit for public inquiry, thought it a private subject. Lord Cornwallis had declared that the government ought not to interfere with matters of private debt in India; and if the marquis Wellesley considered the present subject fit for public interference, he had had abundant opportunities of promoting inquiry into the transaction. If the House tolerated an inquiry into this case, they would next session have 5,000 applications of a similar nature.
 Dr. Phillimore  said, that after looking attentively at the documents he did not feel himself competent to determine whether the claim was or was not established, and therefore he should vote for farther inquiry.
 Mr. Prendergast  said, that in the pecuniary transactions in which he was engaged in India, instead of being remunerated for his losses, he had been obliged, on the principle that half a loaf was better than no bread, to accept one half of his claim in lieu of the whole. He was compelled to abandon the other moiety, to which he was equally well entitled on every principle of equity and right, to the vizier. He would afterwards move, that the papers connected with his own case be laid before the House.
 Mr. P. Moore  was astonished that the hon. gentleman who was the professed agent for the petitioners could have been induced so far to sanction their petition as to bring it forward. It would not be fair to make the company answerable for debts of which they knew nothing.
 Mr. T. Courtenay  said, this was a claim, not of liberality, but of right, and there was no judicial tribunal either in this country or in India by which it could be decided. The application was therefore properly made to the House of Commons. If the House refused to refer it to a committee, they would be in fact, trying this difficult question themselves, and deciding it against the petitioners, without hearing evidence. The board of control might, undoubtedly, if satisfied of the justice of the claim, have sent their mandate to the court of directors, ordering them to send a dispatch to India, commanding the payment of the debt claimed. But what would have been said, if the board had thus compelled the payment of 150,000 l
 Mr. Spring Rice  was anxious to take, in the first instance, whatever step might best promote the ends of justice; and in the next, whatever might be most consistent with the dignity and convenience of that House. It was true, that if the business were now hurried on, much inconvenience would arise from commencing proceedings at a period of the session when it was impossible to carry them to a conclusion. But there was another in convenience; that of keeping a charge pending over the head of an individual, without bringing the case forward. For doing this, which must be the consequence of acceding to the noble marquis's proposition, he hoped he should not be held responsible. He did not mean to say that any blame attached to the noble lord opposite, as, upon the whole, he considered the course which he had suggested to be the best that could be taken. There was, however, another consideration of some importance. It was proper to consider how far an individual could with propriety continue in the administration of justice against whom such a charge had been preferred. If any means could be devised to prevent this, so that the party might remain prepared to meet the accusation directed against him, without in the meantime acting as a judge, it would be very desirable that such an arrangement should be made.—The nobles
 1502
 Mr. Astell  defended the conduct of the company, and said, that if the House consented to entertain this petition, there would be no end to petitions of a similar nature.
 Mr. Money  was most anxious that justice should be done, but on looking at the papers, he thought the main allegations of the petition were disproved.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that a copy of the Ukase had been received by government, through the Russian ambassador: and shortly after its receipt, a note, in answer, was addressed to the ambassador, stating, that as far as regarded the right of sovereignty and the maritime principle, the British government could not accede to the terms of the Ukase; but offering to enter into an amicable explanation, with a view to a friendly arrangement.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  had no recollection of having heard of such an occurrence before. If the hon. member would mention the name of the vessel, it might bring the circumstance to his mind; but at present he had no recollection of any thing at all like it. He had not, to the best of his knowledge, received any information of the fact. If it had occurred, he should be obliged to any hon. member who would make him acquainted with the particulars of it.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the name of the vessel was the lord Collingwood, that he had seen the decree of condemnation, and that if the noble marquis would permit him, he would forward a copy of it to him for perusal. In consequence of this decree, the insurances to that part of the globe had risen from 30 to 70 s
 The Marquis of Londonderry  repeated, that the document in question had never been in his possession. He should, however, be glad to peruse it.
 Lord Binning  moved, that the petition relative to the National Monument in Scotland be referred to the committee of Supply.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was of opinion, that it naturally belonged to the committee.
 Lord Binning  stated, that the sum of 100,000 l
 Mr. Bennet  objected to the principle of this proceeding. He had voted for the 100,000 l
 Lord Binning  expressed his astonishment at the novel course which had been taken on the present occasion. He would withdraw his motion for the present.
 Lord Binning  said, that the question was not now what the style of the monument should be, but whether the petition should be referred to a committee.
 Mr. Bennet  said, they had heard much of the importance of the duties entrusted
 1519 l l d l
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that in consequence of what had passed in the committee last session, every effort had been made to render the estimates of the army extraordinaries more perspicuous and detailed. He hoped the committee would allow that he had redeemed the pledge which he gave on that occasion. Formerly, the practice was merely to state the amount of the bills drawn from the colonies; but the committee would now find an abstract of the particulars. The vote to which parliament had agreed last year was 1,050,000 l l l l
 Mr. Brougham  said, that with respect to the agents, he was convinced that the right hon. gentleman and the hon. secretary were not overpaid: they were worth the money: they were in fact the friends at court of the colonies. But what they did for the colonies with his majesty's government, they did at the expense of the people of this country.
 Mr. Goulburn  would never consent that any of his majesty's subjects should be given up in the manner pointed out by the hon. gentleman. With respect to the fortifications erecting in Canada, they were rendered necessary in consequence of the Americans having built a considerable fortification on their frontier.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  thought, under the present circumstances of the country—acting on a system of severe, and, in many instances, of very unjust reductions of public expenditure, famine in Ireland, and distress in England—it was impossible to vote 100,000 l
 Mr. Hume  wished to know why the petition was to be referred to that committee?
 Mr. Hume  said, that this was not a time for a hasty appropriation of the public money.
 Mr. Hume  said, that though considerable improvement had taken place in the manner of making out these estimates, still he thought that the separate estimates for the colonies ought to be distinctly shown and explained. Where was there an account of the real revenues of these colonies? The revenue of Ceylon was 378,812 l l l l l l l l 1515 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 1516 l l l l l l 1517 l l l l l l l
 Mr. T. Courtenay  said, he was surprised at the assertion of the hon. member for Shrewsbury, that the office of agent for the Cape, which he (Mr. C.) held, was an office that had no duty attached to it. That hon. member, in the whole course of his parliamentary life, never made a greater mistake. Precisely the same description of duties which his right hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) had performed for Ceylon, he (Mr. C.) now performed for the settlement at the Cape. The duties connected with the agency for Ceylon were undoubtedly: more extensive than those which he had to perform, but then his salary was proportionably larger. He might appeal to h is hon. friends, whether he was not considered  a bore 1521
 Mr. Huskisson  defended the propriety of employing colonial agents. The hon. member for Aberdeen had divided the
 1520
 Mr. Wilmot  contended, that the reduction proposed had nothing to do with the vote of 700,000 l l 1518
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he had another question to put to the noble marquis upon another incident that affected the lawful navigation of British subjects. The House must have heard of a recent decree of the Spanish Court of Admiralty at Porto Rico, by which a British vessel, trafficking with Buenos Ayres, had been condemned as good prize on account of an alleged contravention of the fiscal and colonial laws of that country. Now, though he was convinced that by international law no state had a right to detain vessels as prize which were trading with territories over which she claimed dominion, but of which she had not possession, still he did not know of any other mode of checking the practice which Spain had recently adopted than by recognizing at once the independence of the territories which she considered as colonies dependent on her. He wished to ask of the noble marquis, whether he had received any information of the condemnation of a British vessel at Porto Rico for a pretended contravention of the law of Spain in trading with the Spanish colonies; and, if he had, whether he had taken any measures to prevent the repetition of a similar injury?
 Sir J. Mackintosh  rose, to put two questions to the noble marquis opposite arising out of subjects which materially affected the naval interests of Great Britain. The House was aware that the emperor of Russia had issued a Ukase, by which he claimed, as Russian dominion, the North-east coast of Asia, and the North-west coast of America, attaching thereby to himself an extent of coast of 5,000 miles; and, as a proof of the exercise of sovereignty over those limits, forbidding the ships of all other nations to come nearer than 100 Italian miles of that part of the Northwest American coast, within 51 degrees North latitude. He understood there were now several ships fitting out in the port of London, for the purpose of carrying on traffic with that part of the Northwest American coast, which had hitherto been claimed as our own. He wished, therefore, to ask the noble lord, whether
 1512
 Sir R. Wilson  objected to the proposition, as the petition was founded on an erroneous statement of the funds applicable to that purpose.
 Mr. Bennet  presented a petition from Mr. James Ferguson, of Newman-street, stereotype printer, praying that parliament would not sanction the Small Notes' bill, until they had satisfied the House, that they had used the best means in their power to frame a note, which furnished a better security than their present one, against the attempts of forgers.
 Colonel Davies  said, that although he fully concurred in the indignation expressed against the ministers for their want of exertion to remove the causes of the misery of Ireland, yet as he could not consent, on account of any fault of theirs, to leave the loyal inhabitants of that country exposed to the dagger of the midnight assassin, he should, however reluctantly, vote for the bill. While he made this sacrifice of personal feeling, he might be allowed to ask how the ministers justified themselves for not having, during the session, proposed any measure for the relief of Ireland, except that insufficient measure for the leasing of tithes? One cause of Ireland s misfortunes was, that redundancy of population, which appeared to increase with an accumulated force. That redundancy of population did, in his opinion, produce the moral degradation of Ireland; and, operating on the principle of reaction, that moral degradation had the effect of keeping up the excessive population. The Irish gentlemen were not guiltless in this case, by their practice of multiplying freeholds for election purposes. He should be sorry to narrow the elective franchise; but if leases for life no longer gave a vote in Ireland, the gentry would have a direct interest in diminishing the population on their estates, and of removing the great evil. A heavy responsibility rested on the government, for its conduct towards a country, which, from its natural advantages, might have been a paradise, but which, by mismanagement, had been made a terrestrial hell.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that in every instance of conviction under the Insurrection act, the same consideration had been given, as would have been bestowed upon
 1543
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he considered the present measure as a lamentable evil, which could only be justified by the extreme necessity of the case. As a permanent measure he should not merely deprecate it, but consider it as amounting to an extinction of the constitution of Ireland; and in that light he knew it was viewed by the noble marquis at the head of the government of that country. If he thought for a moment that the passing of the present measure was to supersede the necessity of measures of amelioration, he would be the last man to consent even to its temporary enactment. That there was no indisposition in the legislature to apply itself to such objects, would be evident to all who looked at the past and present condition of Ireland. If any country in the world had made greater progress in civilization during the last half century than another, that country was Ireland. Let hon. members recollect the time when Ireland had truly been the victim of penal laws. Let them remember those statutes which, as chief baron Burgh forcibly expressed it, "had visited the Catholic in his cradle, and accompanied him to his grave." Those laws were now no more. Was that nothing done for the country? Thirty-eight years ago Ireland stood destitute alike of commercial advantage and constitutional privilege. Were the rights, the laws, the free trade, which had been given to her, nothing? And had there been any indisposition on the part of government to the granting of those immunities? Upon the question of emancipation, different opinions were entertained. For
 1546 1547
 Mr. Ricardo  approved of the appointment of inspectors, particularly in the metropolis.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that under no circumstances could he consider it as other than a most painful duty to have to submit to the House the continued application to Ireland of the provisions of the Insurrection act. For although he had more than once thought it his duty to support bills of this description when proposed by others, he could nevertheless assure the House that there was not a man in it, who was more sensible than himself of the objections to which they were liable. Most gratifying indeed would it have been to the noble lord at the head of the Irish government, if he, had felt himself justified, consistently with a due regard to the safety of the lives and property of the quiet and loyal inhabitants of Ireland, in dispensing with a measure which,
 1523 1524 1525 1526 1527 1528 1529
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he must extremely doubt what had been said of the great facility of forging the notes of the Bank of England. If so, there would have been many forgers; but it was well known, that all the forged one pound notes came from one or two manufactories of them at Birmingham, in which considerable capital was employed, and that the Bank had never been able to come at the actual parties concerned in the fabrication—all the prosecutions having been of issuers, or of persons who dealt in the article. The country banks were protected, not by the excellence of their plates, but by the narrow limits within which their notes circulated.
 Mr. Grattan  wished the bill to be limited to the 1st of May. He trusted the House would feel it its duty to make a serious inquiry into the state of Ireland.
 Mr. Lockhart  agreed, that an inimitable
 1522
 Mr. Pearse  said, that the country bankers rarely prosecuted. They often paid the forgeries sooner than take any step which might affect the credit of their notes.
 Mr. Pearse  said, that the Bank could have no other desire than to issue the best note they could for the security of the public. The utmost care had been taken by the directors. Commissioners appointed to inquire into the subject had sat long, and the result of their investigation was, that it was impossible to find any other plan of note which was not more easily imitated than the present one. The Bank engraver had imitated all the plans submitted by the commissioners.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that nothing but a system of coercion had been pursued in the government of Ireland for the last two centuries; and what had been the fruits of that system?—insurrection and rebellion. He would put it to the House whether, during all that period, any fair attempt had been made to redress the real grievances of Ireland? The cause of the greatest evils in that country was, that the occupiers of land were made responsible for rents which could not be met by any industry or fair ingenuity. It was
 1544
 Mr. Hume  hoped that the House would pass the bill for circulating small notes exchangeable for specie. Along with this, however, it became the bank to consider, that as the new bill would enable them to issue small notes during the term of their charter, it was doubly incumbent upon them to issue such notes as were least likely to be imitated. He knew very well, that an inimitable note was unattainable; but he also knew that the Bank had the means in their power of lessening the danger from forgery, by improving their own notes, and imposing additional difficulties upon the attempts to imitate them.
 Mr. Lucius Concannon  urged the immediate necessity of adopting measures calculated to heal the wounds of his native country; and warmly expressed the indignation which he felt at seeing ministers allow month after month to elapse, and calamity after calamity to occur, without any endeavour to arrest the progress of the evil.
 Mr. Hart Davis  said, that the Bank had lately received a million sterling of their notes from the country, without a single forgery.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that when the act had first been passed, he had never discharged a inure painful duty than in giving it his support. If at the time when the Insurrection act had been first proposed this session, ministers had not given
 1536 1537 1538 1539 1540 in rerum natura prœmium et pœna pœna pœna in prœmio 1541 l l 1542 vice versa 
 
 Duty. 
 Criminal convictions. Malt. Spirits. 
 In 1815 there were 771 14 s 0 d 5 s 6 d 
 In 1816 there were 907 17 4 6 0 
 In 1817 there were 532 17 4 5 6 
 In 1818 there were 499 9 4 5 6 
 In 1819 there were 531 14 0 5 6 
 In 1820 there were 723 14 0 5 6
 Sir Robert Wilson  said, he considered the present to be a measure which would retard, instead of advancing, the tranquillity of Ireland. Besides, if the House passed this bill without receiving from ministers a guarantee of an investigation into the state of Ireland, then no such investigation would at all take place. When it was found that the causes of any recent conflagration still existed, it became a duty to take such measures as would prevent the operation of those causes in future. He begged leave to disclaim all imputation on the character of the noble marquis now at the head of the Irish government. This was the more
 1530 vis medicatrix 1531 1532 1533 1534 l l l l l l 1535
 Sir J. Newport  was not prepared to take upon himself the responsibility of opposing the present measure, under the circumstances upon which it was demanded; but he thought that its continuance ought to be limited to the 1st of May next. He trusted, however, that no farther prolongation of the law would be found requisite; for heavy would be the evil of teaching Ireland to believe that, in spite of all the promises held out to her at the Union, she was still to remain the victim of penal statutes. Forty three years had now elapsed since one of the greatest lawyers and statesmen of his country, the lord chief baron Burgh, speaking of the situation, as to penal laws, of Ireland, had said, "penalty, punishment, and Ireland, are synonymous, and they are written on the margin of her statute-book in letters of blood." If the Irish were alienated from the laws under which they lived, to what cause but to a defective government could that alienation be ascribed? He did say that ministers had not done their duty towards Ireland. He had the highest respect for the noble person at the head of the Irish go-
 1545
 The Marquis of Londonderry  observed, that in some instances the House had at once voted the paper complained of to be a breach of privilege, but in other cases it had postponed coming to a decision till a future day.
 Mr. Wynn  agreed that the contents of the paper, which had not been read, had no relation to the question then before the House; but as the passages which had been read might be mitigated or aggravated by the other parts of the documents, it was desirable that the House should be put in possession of the whole. In the case of Mr. Reeves the whole of a long pamphlet had been read at the table. This, however, was inconvenient, as the attention of the House could not be so fixed on the article while reading, as to make them fully acquainted with it, and therefore he thought the better course was, to postpone the further consideration of the subject till to-morrow.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that in the case of Mr. Hobhouse, the consideration of the subject had been adjourned for a day. That course he thought it would be desirable to pursue now.
 The Marquis of Londondcrry  thought the House would come to a decision of the subject with more advantage after having considered the papers during an interval. But he thought it might in the meanwhile, be proper for the House to desire the hon. member to attend in his place forthwith, and to require of him a pledge that no personal consequences would ensue upon this matter.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he should move for the attendance of the hon. member forthwith; but, in the mean time, he thought the whole of the documents ought to be read.
 Lord Binning  contended that the whole
 1553
 Mr. Wynn  fully concurred in all that had fallen from the learned gentleman. Among the most sacred and important duties which the House owed not only to itself, but to the country, was that of preventing, by every means in its power, the practice of making members responsible for words spoken within its walls. That course, in a case like the present, was the best, which met with the most
 1555 nem. con.
 Mr. Wynn  said, they must now adjourn the farther consideration of the subject, or make an order for the printers to attend, in order to get at the authors.
 Lord Binning  said, that one of the printers lived in Edinburgh.
 Lord Binning  said, he had certainly not the smallest doubt that the letter in question was written by Mr. Hope. He was perfectly convinced that Mr. Hope would avow the letter at their bar, and he hoped the House would act on this statement. nem. con. 1556
 Mr. Tierney  said, that seven or eight days must elapse before the printer could attend, and supposing the session to terminate before the author was brought up, Mr. Abercromby would be bound by the order of the House, while the other party would be at liberty to act as they pleased. Could any one doubt that Mr. John Hope was the author of the letter. If there was no doubt on the subject, perhaps the noble lord opposite could vouch for the fact, and in that case it would not be improper to order at once Mr. John Hope to attend the House.
 Mr. Tierney  agreed with the noble lord, that the House ought to order the attendance of its member in his place, and that no time should be lost in doing so. He of course knew nothing of what was passing, but he owned he spoke with great anxiety of mind, from the feelings of friendship which he entertained for one of the parties. He implored the House therefore, unless they entertained some reasonable doubt as to the breach of privilege, not to hesitate in coming to a decision on that point; as they would thereby lead the way to that other step, which was so indispensably necessary, in order to prevent the occurrence of serious consequences.
 Mr. Tierney  was decidedly of opinion that the extracts in question were a gross breach of privilege. If, however, any hon. member thought that reading the whole pamphlet might have the effect of mitigating the rigour of the House, he ought to have it read.
 Mr. Brougham  could not avoid viewing these papers, in the first instance, as a breach of privilege. Incidental to the main question, another circumstance claimed their attention, the chance of immediate personal altercation. But the question before them was, whether or not a breach of their privileges had been committed? The circumstances to which he had alluded would only operate as a reason for proceeding with all possible dispatch. There was a material difference between this case and that of Mr. Hobhouse. The circumstances attending the latter case might have been indecorous, and might have been justly resented by that House; but it did not amount to that direct and immediate obstruction which an attack upon individual members of that House, particularly an attack upon a single member for discharging his parliamentary duty, was calculated to accomplish. All cases of libels upon that House Might be construed to amount to an obstruction; but there was a striking and manifest distinction between those general cases and cases like that under consideration, which was nothing more nor less than a direct personal attack upon a member of parliament for discharging his duty. The House would see the paramount necessity of proceeding with effect and without delay. The first step was to declare that the conduct of the individual amounted to a breach of privilege. The next duty was, to take immediate steps to bring the party before the House. The House was in the habit of calling upon members in cases of personal difference, and enforcing pledges that no farther steps should be taken by them; but in those cases the offence was committed in the presence of the House; the House was competent to form a judgment upon it, and to act upon that judgment. An hon. member had on one occasion overheard certain words that had passed between two members in the lobby; he informed the House of the circumstance, and both gentlemen were called before the House. But in these cases neither party had cause to complain of the decision—both were present, and justice was done between them. Now, he begged the House to see the situation in which his hon. and learned friend was placed. The motion really might be con-
 1554
 Mr. W. Courtenay  rose, to bring under the notice of the House two recent publications, to which he considered it necessary to call their very serious attention. The House would recollect that some little time ago, an hon. member (Mr. Abercomby) called for a parliamentary inquiry into the conduct of the lord advocate of Scotland in relation to the public press of that country. In the course of the debate on that occasion, the hon. member was under the necessity of taking upon himself the disagreeable part of an accuser. Disagreeable as that office must have been to the feelings of the hon. member, it would not be doubted that he was then discharging one of the most important functions which a member of the House of Commons could exercise. Any thing, therefore, which interfered with the free exercise of such a function must be considered as a breach of the privileges of that House. In the course or the observations which the hon. and learned gentleman had made on the evening alluded to, he was called upon to make some remarks on the conduct of certain persons connected with public employments in Scotland. Those remarks appeared to have elicited the particular comments of which he (Mr. C.) was now speaking from the parties concerned; and to the publications in which they were contained, it was his wish to call the attention of the House. He held in his hand a pamphlet, entitled "A Letter to the hon. James Abercromby, by John Hope." Mr. Hope appeared to be one of the individuals on whose proceedings the hon. member had thought it requisite to make some reflections. Now, throughout the letter, that sort of spirit was visible, which, when applied to words spoken by an hon. member in the conscientious discharge of his duty within these walls, did appear a most open and daring viola-
 1549 think yourselves safe 1550 1551
 The Speaker  was aware that both courses had frequently been taken; but he believed the course taken when it was a constructive breach of privilege, differed from that which had been pursued where the breach was positive and distinct. The question now was whether there had been a comment, and what were the terms in which that comment was couched. If there had been a comment at all, there was an end to the question about breach of privilege.
 The Speaker  was aware that a great variety of precedents were to be found,
 1552
 The Speaker  thought it would be better to order the printers to attend, and then adjourns the further consideration of the subject till to-morrow.
 Mr. Western  said, he was quite ready to proceed, if it was the desire of the House [go on, go on!]. It might be thought that he was pertinacious on this subject, but if those, who were of that opinion felt, as deeply as he did, the importance of the question, the unparalleled situation of the country, the unexampled ruin that had already spread around, the apprehension that that ruin was but the precursor of more extensive evils, and the conviction, that all was attributable to the cause to which he had already called the attention of the House, he was persuaded, that they would not blame him for his perseverance. It was his most decided opinion, that if the bill of 1819, was allowed to continue n force, its operation would involve this and the sister island in the most unprecedented condition of peril. He utterly denied that there was any
 1597 1598 1599 1600 
 1. "That the Select Committee appointed last session to inquire into the petitions complaining of the distressed state of the agriculture of the United Kingdom, reported, That it was with deep regret they had to commence their report by stating, that in their judgment the complaints of the petitioners were founded in fact, and that at the price of corn, at that time, the returns to the occupiers of arable farms, after allowing for the interest of their investments, were by no means adequate to the charges and out-goings; and that a considerable portion thereof must have, therefore, been paid our of their capitals:—That the price of grain having experienced a still farther depression, viz., from 55 s d s 1601 2. "That it appears by the papers relating to the state of Ireland, laid before this House by his majesty's command, that serious disturbances had broken out in that country, of which the demand and collection of rents had been, on the part of the insurgents, the alleged causes; and subsequent information has been received, that the labourers in agriculture, from a partial failure in the crop of potatoes, together with a total want of employment, and consequent means to purchase other food, are in the most calamitous and deplorable situation; and that many have died from the want of nourishment, whilst the price of provisions still continues so low, as not to afford to the occupiers of land the means of defraying the various charges to which they are subject. 3. "That in the same report of the Select Committee of last session, it is stated, 'That the measures taken for the restoration of the currency have contributed to lower the price of grain and other commodities generally, and consequently to cause a severe pressure upon the industry of the country, and not only to have occasioned a proportion of the fall of prices here, but to have produced a similar, though not equal effect in other countries; and, in a degree, to have deranged the markets of every part of the civilized world.' That in proportion as all commodities, whether the produce of the soil, manufactures, or commerce, have experienced a depression of their money value; so must the proprietors have suffered a direct injury; and whatever may be the degree, it was impossible that the commercial and manufacturing classes of the community can long continue to prosper, whilst the cultivators of the soil are rapidly sinking into ruin and decay, and the labourers sulfating in consequence of the want of their usual employment. 4."That soon after the passing of the act of 1791, by which the Bank of England was restricted from paying its notes in specie, the ancient metallic, standard of value having been thus departed from, the currency of the country, composed of Bank-notes, became depreciated, which depreciation was evinced, and may be estimated by the amount of Bank paper money above 3 l s d l s 1602 l s d l s l s d s d s d s s s d s d 5. "That the average price of wheat between the years 1797 and 1819 having been, therefore, in that currency about 80 s s d s s 1603 6. "That, from the year 1797 to 1816, the country was, with short intervals, engaged in a war of unprecedented expense; the taxes were quadrupled, as well as county and parochial assessments, and a heavy public debt created.—That this period was at the same time distinguished by extraordinary, efforts of national industry, applied to its agriculture, manufactures and commerce, by a facility and extension of credit in all those branches, giving more immediate activity to capital, and a consequent extent and complication of money engagements beyond all former precedent:—That the national debt, which on the 5th Jan., 1793, was 227,989,148 l l l l l s d l l 7. "That this taxation has acquired an additional weight by the act of 1819, and the measures preparatory thereto, the degree of which can in part be ascertained by a comparison of the price of gold, but more justly by the money price of commodities, by which the real value of all payments must be determined: that the equivalent in gold to 60,571,025 l l l 8. "That the average price of wheat of the former period having been 81 s d s d l l 9. "That it appears from various evidence, given in successive committees appointed to consider the petitions of, the agriculturists, that the wages of labour of
 1604 s s s s l l 10 "That it appears by a comparison of the official and declared value of exports of British commodities, that in the year 1814, the declared value of the exports was 47,859,388 l l l l l l 11 "That the farther reduction of wheat from 55 s d s 12. "That such effects could not by possibility have been in the contemplation of the legislature, still less of the people of England, at the time of the passing the act of 1819:—That its destructive consequences are now visible—that individuals held to their contract, either have been or must be ruined; an unexampled revolution of property follow, and the burthens of taxation become absolutely intolerable. 1605 13. "That by the parliamentary paper, No. 145, of the present session, columns 1 and 2, it appears, that from the 5th Jan. 1798, to the 5th Jan. 1816, the sum of 159,630,826 l l l 14. "That the average price of gold having been during that period 90 s d s d s d l 15. "That the average price of wheat having been during the above period 81 s d s d l l 16. "That the annual charge of 23,860,020 l l l l 17. "That all public creditors prior to 1798, and others subsequent, have suffered in proportion to the depreciation that followed their respective loans; that they are therefore entitled, in strict justice, to be
 1606 18. "That under all these circumstances, it it evidently and indispensably, necessary, to take into immediate consideration the destructive effects that have arisen out of the alterations made in the currency, by the acts of 1797 and 1819, as well respecting the enormous public burthens created and so augmented by the act of 1815, as the revolution of property in the vast and complicated intercourse of individuals throughout this country occasioned thereby; in order that, by a final arrangement of the currency, as equitable to all parties as circumstances will admit, or by a reduction of taxation equal to the advance occasioned by the act of l819, together with the establishment of some principle for the adjustment of private contracts, justice may, as far as possible, be administered to all, and the country saved from a revolution of property, and also from a pressure to taxation beyond the ability of the people to sustain."
 The Marquis of Londonderry  thought it would be most advisable to allow the bill to be brought in and read a first time, without entering into that kind of desultory discussion, the tendency of which would be, not to advance, but retard the object in view. He congratuluted his hon. and learned friend on the great pains be had taken upon this subject, and expressed his satisfaction at finding that his object was to bring back the system to what it was originally intended to be, instead of misleading the public mind, by any attempt to remove that which had grown up and strengthened with the institutions of the country.
 Mr. Western  said, that several honourable friends were absent who wished to take part in the discussion of his resolutions. Perhaps, therefore, he might be allowed to move the first seventeen now, without debate, and to bring forward the last on a future day. He was resolved that the subject should be again considered before the close of the session.
 Mr. Attwood  commenced by remarking
 1612 1613 1614 l l 1615 1616 1617 1618 1619 1620 1621 1622 l s d now l s d 1623 l s d 1624 l s l s l honestly 1625 1626 s d d 1627 l l l l s 1628 l l s l 1629 l l d d d l 1630 1631 s s 1632 s s d s d s 1633
 Mr. Secretary Peel  asked, what reason there was for the House to revoke the decision it had come to not a month ago, without one new fact alleged; and begged gentlemen to consider the effect on all commercial intercourse of a declaration, that all transactions since 1797 were of doubtful equity, and should be revised. He contended, that the distress in Ireland was in no way attributable to the state of the currency, but to the failure of the potatoe crop, which was the chief reliance of a population, out of proportion to the means of employment.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  thought the restoration of the old standard was, to a considerable extent, the cause of the agricultural distress, but not the only cause. There was, in addition, the cessation of the war demand, five more than usually abundant, harvests, and an enormous importation within those five years of foreign corn. Parliament neither could nor would obviate the two first causes, by endeavouring to counteract the bounty of Providence, or by plunging the country into new and ruinous wars. They had that session endeavoured to regulate the import of foreign corn. The violent reduction of the circulation, occasioned by the premature act of 1819, had affected this country, and in a still greater degree Ireland. He was not, however, for again abandoning the gold standard, but rather for augmenting moderately and cautiously the diminished circulation. If this were effected with prudence and good sense he did not doubt the return, not of high, but of fair and remunerating prices.
 Sir F. Burdett  supported the motion in an elaborate speech, of which, from the lateness of the hour, no report has been preserved, and concluded with stating, that the only resolution for which he felt himself responsible was the last, seeing that it pledged the House to inquiry.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he could not agree to any of the resolutions in their present form; several of them contained mistakes in fact, and all of them were pervaded by an erroneous principle.
 Mr. Ricardo  commenced by saying that if he should not succeed in refuting the arguments of the hon. gentleman, it would be owing, not to the force of those arguments, but to his inability to reply to them. The hon. member had said, that the alteration which had taken place in prices was to be solely imputed to the alteration in the state of the currency brought about by the act of 1819; but the hon. gentleman seemed to forget, that the country had been subjected to such alterations in prices, when no such cause existed as the
 1607 1608 l s d l s  d l s d 1609 l s s 1610
 Mr. Nolan  addressed the House to the effect following: * * 1561 1562 1563 * * l l l l 1564 annual amount of the poor-rates yet known. Since then they have gradually declined as follows: 
 
 1818–19, £.7,531,650 an. decrease, £.358,498 
 1819–20, 7,329,594 an. decrease, 202,056 
 1820–21, 6,958,445 an. decrease, 371,149 
 Total decrease in last three years, 931,703 But the average increase of the poor-rates calculating upon each three years from March 1812, to March 1821, is 
 
 March 1812 to March 1815, £.6,129,844 
 March 1815 to March 1818, 6,844,290 
 Increase from 1815 to 1818 714,446 
 1818 from 1821, 7,273,229 
 Increase from 1818 to 1821 428,939 The entire of these reports, by the committees on this subject, are worthy of the general attention. It is to be hoped that they will be continued annually, and upon enlarged principles of inquiry. † See the return of the poor-rates and population in these parishes. Northiam, near half the population paupers, rates at 1 l s d s d s d s 1565 1566 1567 * * 1568 1569 1570 1571 1572 1573 s 1574 1575 1576 1577 1578 1579 1580 1581 l 1582 1583 1584 1585 * * ——Fuit sapientia quondam Publica privatis secernere, sacra profanis, Concubitu prohibere vago, dare jura maritis, Oppida moliri, leges incidere lingo: Sic honos et nomen divinis vatibus atque Carminibus venit. HORACE. 1586 1587 1588 1589 1590 1591 1592 * * 1593 1594 * * 1595 1596
 Mr. Huskisson  strongly objected to the postponement of the discussion.
 Lord Milton  contended, that the distress and embarrassment under which the country laboured were not to be imputed to the simple measure of 1819, but were to be traced to the fatal measure of 1797, and the effects which followed, to the fluctuations of the currency, and the efforts which had been made with a view of returning to cash payments. He agreed that the agricultural body came with an ill grace to that House, not in fact to be relieved from distress, but with a demand to raise the price of bread upon the people. He thanked God that the House had not the power to do so if they would. He would regret any invasion on the public creditor: he hoped the House would keep faith with him; but whether the taxes would keep faith with him was another question. The House would not sanction an invasion of the debt; but he greatly feared that the taxes would not be able to meet the demand of the creditor. There were two ways to relieve the farmer; the one, to increase his receipts; the other, to diminish his outgoings: the first was impossible, the other might be effected. And how could it be effected but by a reduction of taxation. He thought that ten millions of taxes might have been remitted this session. Had so much been remitted, it would have afforded great relief to the agricultural interest. It would not afford the same relief next year; because there were scarcely any farmers who were not now paying their rent out of their capital. The noble lord referred, in proof of the extent of the agricultural distress, to the petition from Leicestershire, which had been signed by all classes, from the lord-lieutenant to the lowest occupier of land. The consequence must be, that in 1823
 1611
 Mr. Courtenay  said, he understood that the hon. and learned member for Calne (Mr. Abercromby) would that evening attend in his place, in obedience to the, order of the House. He understood also that the papers which the House had declared to be breaches of privilege, had led to consequences likely to be of a personal nature, unless the House interfered. The privileges of that House belonged to the House collectively, and not to any individual member; and he trusted the House would intimate to the learned member; that whatever might be his views or his feelings on the subject, he must not take any step interfering with the proceedings of the House. There were many precedents of cases wherein the House had solemnly enjoined individual members not to make any breach of privilege a personal matter. He should first move, "that the resolutions of Tuesday last be first read." [They were accordingly read by the clerk.] He would next move, "That the said Letters having been declared to be in breach of the privileges of this House, this House enjoins Mr. Abercromby not to prosecute any quarrel, against any person, which may arise out of such breach of privilege, by sending, or accepting any challenge." nem. con.,
 Dr. Lushington  trusted that the House would pause when it reflected that this measure repealed all that had been done since the year 1754, in a manner perfectly novel and impracticable. The present was the only occasion when the House was afforded an opportunity of reconsidering a subject that affected property and interests to an immense amount. It was singular that there were only twenty lines of the original bill left, While ten pages of new and undigested matter was added by their lordships. Some parts were so confusedly worded, that it was wholly unintelligible. It was not less remarkable, that, if the principle of the bill were good, it had not been extended to Ireland. The learned doctor then proceeded to point out the injustice which would be inflicted on various individuals under many of its clauses. It would affect most injuriously a great deal of property, the inheritance of which depended on contingent remainders. Many individuals vested their money in the purchase of reversions, and contingent reversions, depending on parties not marrying, whose interests might be materially injured by this bill. He then commented on that part of the bill which provided that perjury committed for the purpose of procuring a license should be punished with transportation. It held out a strong temptation, when family disputes occurred, for one of the parties, where perjury had been committed, to inform against the other, and to untie the marriage knot, by having recourse to transportation. But it was not only the party, but the person granting the licence, that was in danger of a misdemeanour, if he neglected any one of a number of forms, which no one could be sure of having complied with. He happened to be the surrogate under the bishop of London, and he declared, that, if this bill passed, all his friends should die bachelors, before he would grant them a license. He had heard a noble lady had had a great hand in framing this bill; and it certainly appeared to him to savour more of a feminine than a masculine mind. It was curious too, that, under whatever circumstances of fraud a marriage by banns was celebrated, there was no transportation, and the marriage was valid even if the banns were published under names
 1640
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he perhaps did not understand every sentence in the but he believed in his conscience that it would do great good, by removing a system whose principal features were manifest injustice and gross cruelty; and he also thought that any inconveniences to which it might give birth might very easily be cured. The hon. and learned gentleman said, "Adhere to the ancient law of the land, and resist this innovation." He would say, "Let us return to the ancient law of the land, on which the existing Marriage act is an innovation." The Marriage act passed in 1754 was an innovation on the ancient and indubitable law of this country. That act was introduced by lord Hardwicke, to prevent the children of distinguished families, in their minority, from forming unsuitable alliances. It was clear that the evil which it was intended to meet could not be very extensive, and, in his opinion, it might have been cured by judicious moral restraint. For his own part, he knew no better mode of preventing such a mischief than by good example, and the application of mildness and temper. He did not mean to say, that legislative authority might not be beneficially resorted to on such an occasion; but it ought to be used for the purpose of forming such guards and securities as would prevent the offensive act from being done, instead of sending forth a bill, like that of 1754, which was so loosely framed, that an improper marriage might easily be effected, and which visited with punishment both the innocent and the guilty. That act left it in the power of those persons whom it was the object of
 1641 1642 ex post facto 1643
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he supported the present bill, because he thought it was calculated to repair injuries which had been done by the former act. It was said to be introduced to meet a particular case. If he were to support it on that ground, he should consider himself disgraced; but it ought to be no objection to the bill, if there was a case of such manifest oppression from the existing law, as forced an attention to the law, and the necessity of its amendment upon the consideration of the House. He would contend, that the hardships inflicted by the existing marriage act were greater than those inflicted by the law of attainder, inasmuch as the latter were capable of mitigation, and the former were not. Under the marriage act, the offence was latent, and might escape observation for more than one generation. As soon, however, as it was discovered, the consequences were irremediable; the party, to whom the property had descended, forfeited it; there was a defect in his blood, which immediately transferred his fortune to his collateral relatives. In the case of attainder, however, the treason was open and notorious; the blood was at once known to be tainted; the property devolved to the Crown, which in its leniency generally restored it to the family of the offending party, after the withholding of it for a few years had satisfied the purposes of public justice. Indeed, the principle of forfeiture, as acknowledged in the marriage act of 1754, was a most outrageous dereliction of all true principle, because it inflicted a heavy punishment, not upon those who had committed, but upon those who were perfectly free from any offence. If they felt, that the existing law of marriage was more cruel in its operation than the law of treason, they were bound, in justice, to repair by a retrospective clause the evils of which they had already made themselves the authors. He knew that, in passing a retrospective law which was to affect property, he was calling on the
 1648
 The Attorney General  resisted the amendments. The act, as it now stood, differed totally, except as to two clauses, from the bill passed by the House of Commons. The alterations introduced were pregnant with mischief. The existing law might press hard in particular instances; but let the House look at the measure to be substituted for it. The mode in which the prospective clause provided for the protection of minors in future, was really worthy of the attention of members. Suppose the kind of case against which the act provided. Some man took advantage of a girl of fortune's inexperience, and by fraud or perjury, inveigled her into an improvident marriage. Under such circumstances, the whole personal property of the woman came into the possession of the husband. Now, how did this new law propose to punish such an offender? It transported the husband for life, and so deprived the wife of her protector; it confiscated the whole of his property to the Crown, and so robbed her of those means which had
 1645
 Mr. Wetherell  objected to the retrospective clause, as an unconstitutional innovation on the rights of property. With respect to the acts alluded to rendering the marriages of priests valid, they could not be cited in support of the present measure, because at the Reformation the whole code of popery laws fell to the ground, and the restrictions imposing celibacy on popish priests of course fell to the ground with them. He objected to the bill on constitutional grounds; for if a man's right to property could be taken away by an  ex post facto ex post facto 1644
 Mr. Canning  stated, that he voted for this bill on the ground of expediency. He did not altogether approve of its enactments, but he saw, that if it were not passed now, no amendment would, in ail probability be made in the act of 1754, which every body allowed to be cruel and defective. If it were passed in its present shape, it would, he was confident, be found so incompetent to the purpose for which it was framed, that it would be necessary to bring in a bill in the next session to amend and explain it. In the hope, therefore, of obtaining a better legislative measure on the subject of marriage than was to be found either in the existing law, or in that which it was now proposed to substitute for it, he should vote in favour of the present motion, with no thanks to the lords for the amendments, but with thanks to Providence, for having got back their bill at all,
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  entirely approved of the retrospective part of the bill, but reprobated the clauses added by the lords, as necessarily leading to perjuries without number, and which he hoped and trusted another bill, if this must be passed, would be brought in to remedy. At the same time, he thought the best measure would be, the simple repeal of the Marriage act, leaving the law as it formerly stood, and analogous to that in Scotland. Where there were, after all, as few imprudent marriages as there were here.
 Dr. Phillimore  denied that the bill had been prepared with a view to any particular case, and maintained that its retrospective operation was not so decided as that of the measure of 1817.
 Dr. Phillimore  said, that he rose for the purpose of calling upon the House to concur in the amendments introduced into the bill by the House of Lords, and in so doing he could net deny himself the satisfaction of congratulating the House on the success with which their efforts had at length been crowned; and the opportunity which, after so many ineffectual struggles, was now, as it were, placed within their reach, of carrying into effect a salutary reformation which was imperiously called for by the best interests of society—a reformation which had for its object to restore to the marriage bond its true and indissoluble character; to give stability and security to property; to quiet and allay the apprehensions of hundreds of innocent individuals who had unwittingly incurred the penalties of a tremendous law; and to diffuse peace and happiness, and comfort throughout domestic life. Having this great object in view, he had to entreat the House not to reject the only means by which it could be accomplished. The amendments, however objectionable some of them might be, came singularly recommended to their notice. They were the result of protracted discussions in the other House—discussions every way proportionate to the importance of the subject; and they had been adopted after the most deliberate consideration that in our days had been applied to any bill which had been sent from this House to the other branch of the legislature. Within the last five years three bills had been sent to the House of Lords on this subject, varying in form from each other, but agreeing in substance. All these were rejected; but on the present occasion the
 1636 impedimentum dirimens impedimenta impeditiva, 1637 "Look! in this place ran Cassius' dagger through:
See what a rent the envious Casca made:
Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabbed." 1638 1639
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, it had been asserted that the votes of members had been canvassed on this bill. If that were the case he was in ignorance of it. No man had presumed to canvass him upon the subject. He knew of no parties to the measure in any way; but when he saw the great injustice of the present law—when he perceived its immoral tendency—when he perceived the conduct of individuals who sought to take advantage of that injustice—when he saw one branch of a family endeavouring to destroy the honour, the dignity, the wealth of another, for the sake of personal gain, he could
 1646 1647
 Lord Althorp  requested the indulgence of the House, while he stated the circumstances which had prevented the earlier attendance of his learned friend. On Tuesday last, before the papers question had been submitted to the House, his learned friend had set off for Northamptonshire, to communicate with him (lord A.) on the subject. In consequence of that communication they had both set off for the North, with a purpose in view which it was unnecessary to state to the House. On their arrival at Ferrybridge, they found that the messengers from that House had previously passed through the town, and were then several miles in advance; and then they became acquainted with what had taken place in the House on the subject. They therefore found it was impossible to accomplish their object,
 1635
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, he would take that opportunity of replying to the questions which a learned gentleman had proposed to him on a former evening, on the subject of the detention of the British vessel the Lord Collingwood by the Spanish authorities at Porto Rico. He had since
 1649
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the instructions of ministers to the government of the Ionian islands had been, that the strictest neutrality should be preserved in all transactions between the Greeks and the Turks.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he understood ministers to declare, that they could do nothing for Ireland, but the passing of the Constables bill, the Tithe-leasing hill, and the measure now under consideration. If so, he had no hesitation in saying, that they had not done enough. The object of ministers ought to be, to make the people of Ireland wealthy and contented, and such was the purpose of Mr. Pitt at the time of the Union. What had been the fact? Martial law had since been declared, the Habeas Corpus act had been suspended, and the Insurrection act revived. In short, not one of the many promises made at the Union had been fulfilled. The country was now as dissatisfied as ever. Ministers had instituted no inquiry into the state of Ireland since the Union. Where was the equality of law that was spoken of? In what part of
 1654
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that for their exertions to prevent a war between Russia and Turkey, he had felt disposed to give to ministers every credit. But if those exertions had been put forth only for the purpose of allowing the Turks to commit what havoc their barbarous ferocity might prompt them to, during the recess of the British parliament—if this had been done, in order to enable them with the more security and confidence to pursue The work of destroying the Greeks—if had been the object of his majesty's ministers in England and in. Constantinople, he proclaimed their conduct to be of the most abject, the most degraded, and the
 1651
 The Marquis of Londonderry  thought that the present was not a very fit occasion for the discussion of so wide a question as that into which gentlemen had been pleased to enter. It was really marvellous to see how the friends of peace could sometimes advocate the cause, and most unnecessarily, of war. His lima friend, at all times conscientiously supporting the doctrines of benevolence and peace, was now disclosing to the House a problem, which was to relegate and to throw back upon Asia a Turkish population of some 5,000,000 of souls. Now, whatever might be said about Turkish inhumanity, it did appear to him, that neither the crusade, which his hon. friend had proclaimed against the Turks, nor the sentence of transportation pronounced against them, were very likely to have the effect of expelling them from Europe. Gentlemen on the other side did his majesty's ministers great injustice, when they supposed that their exertions had been confined to mediating terms of peace between Russia and the Porte. The danger of Greece had not been lost sight of, and every thing which it was in the power of our government to effect, had been done. He could assure those gentlemen who appeared to possess a peculiar system for the better management of foreign affairs, that neither the government nor the country were so wild as to be prepared to, take up arms with a view to the more, effective and impartial administration of justice in the dominions of Turkey. But no effort had been neglected which it might have been hoped would either have prevented, or at least have softened, the horrors of a war, marked by atrocities that were equally disgraceful to. Greece and to the Porte. He could not suffer the hon. gentlemen to deceive either themselves or the House, however, by proceeding on a supposition that all the horrors and atrocities were on one; side of this contest, and that there was nothing in it for humanity to deplore, but the cruelty and barbarism of the Turks, and the sufferings and ill-fated amiability of the Greeks. The truth was, that, in this attempt to recover their liberties, as it had been called, the Greeks had done much which was to be regretted. The traits of ferocity and violence which had
 1653
 Mr. Bennet  said, that to shut the eyes to the past was not the best way to insure a wise legislation for the future. In his opinion, it was, above all things, desirable that parliament should keep steadily in mind the operation of laws of equal severity to the present in former times. Those laws ought to be contemplated, not as examples to be imitated, but as beacons to be avoided. The conduct which that House had pursued with respect to Ireland, during the present session, was, in his opinion, highly reprehensible. With the exception of a grant of money, not a single grievance had been redressed. He urged the hon. general to bring the subject of the Distillery laws under the consideration of the House next session.
 Goulburn  said, that this measure had been called a severe one, and so it undoubtedly was; but still it was mild in comparison with those which, case of actual rebellion, must necessarily be resorted to. He would ask any hon. member whether, if, at the commencement of the session, the Insurrection act had not passed, it could for a moment be doubted, that open insurrection and rebellion would have broken out? At that time, the parties against whom this act was directed, had actually encountered the king's troops; and it required no spirit of prophecy to foresee, that, if this strong preventive measure had tot been adopted, all the
 1658
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that on a former occasion he had stated, that these fees were about to be revised, and that they were then under consideration. He was willing to go into an inquiry on the subject; but he could not consent to postpone the public business until this complicated question was disposed of He had a right to complain a little of the exaggeration of the hon. member, though
 1660
 Mr. Baring  said, that if merchants in Brazil were to be saddled with such impositions, it was impossible for them to compete with the trade of foreign nations.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that the present bill was one of those measures that were calculated to keep the extraordinary powers of government within some degree of rule and regulation. Why, then, on the discussion of such a measure, did the hon. member refer to a time when no such bill as the present was in existence? It was not liberal or fair to make such observations. In the absence of strong and efficient measures, the loyalists of Ireland, at the time of the rebellion, had no other way of defending themselves, but by taking the law into their own hands. At that melancholy period, many individuals thought they were doing good when they outstripped the bounds of law. He looked with pain and horror at some of their acts, but he denied that they arose from the abuse of any extraordinary powers which had been granted to the government. At a subsequent period, assisted by the attorney-general, he had brought in the Indemnity bill. And, when he brought down a pardon from the Crown for all those who had committed violence and spoliation on the persons and property of his majesty's loyal subjects, it would have been monstrous injustice if he had not also brought down a bill be protect the men who had adhered to the government of the country. Let not the hon. gentleman think that the bill was
 1657
 Mr. S. Rice  said, it was desirable that the unfortunate circumstances attending the former rebellion in Ireland should be kept out of the consideration of the House; as the introduction of them could have no effect but to produce angry charges, and as angry recriminations. A rebellion in any country must necessarily lead to acts which were not justifiable; but when that rebellion was over, it appeared to him to be advisable to close the book.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that when he gave his consent to the grant of 100,000 l.
 Mr. C. Grant  was of opinion, that to grant 10,000 l.
 Lord Binning  said, he should be the last man in the world to make the motion, if it would have the effect of depriving Ireland of any part of the assistance to which she had so strong a claim. But it was only intended to give a particular direction to money already voted by the House. The population of Edinburgh had considerably increased of late, and the increase of churches had not been in proportion. He would, however, withdraw his motion.
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that when he saw that not a tithe of the members of the House were present, and certainly not a tithe of the members for Ireland; he could hardly believe believe that the proposed measure was so indispensable as it was asserted to be. The chief secretary had referred the House to experience. Experirence! of what? The only experience on the subject which he (lord A. H.) recollected, was the experience of one measure of violence succeeded by another of violence succeeded by another of still greater violence. The turbulence of Ireland had been often and often ascribed to the misgovernment of that country. Nay, a right hon. gentleman (Mr. C. Grant), in a speech which would not easily be forgotten, had detailed disturbance after disturbance, and insurrection after insurrection growing out of that misgovernment. Now, he would ask, whether that ought not to be a subject of serious consideration, before they proceeded to the enactment of a measure so severe as that at present proposed?
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that we were at least bound to preserve a strict neutrality between the Greeks and the Turks, but the conduct which our government had pursued had been altogether partial and oppressive.
 Colonel Trench  agreed, that the gentry ought to exert themselves to raise the peasantry of Ireland from their degraded condition. If a measure like the present was not resorted to, the troops would be frequently called out, and much bloodshed would be the inevitable consequence. The absentee system he looked upon as a very great evil. The people were, in fact, deserted by those who ought to be their protectors. He denied that the gentlemen were unfit to hold the situation of magistrates. If improper persons got into the commission of the peace, they ought to be dismissed; but the conduct of such persons ought not to be attributed to the gentry at large. The Irish people, if judicious means were taken, were not incapable of civilization and improvement. A debt of gratitude was due to this country for the munificent subscriptions which had been entered into for the relief of Ireland, and he felt truly grateful to the Hibernian society, by whose efforts
 1655
 General Hart  contended that the distillery laws formed the greatest evil which Ireland endured.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, it was with great regret he opposed the motion. So far from thinking under ordinary circumstances, that the erection of monuments of national magnificence was a waste of the opulence of a state, he considered them objects of the highest political importance. But, at the present moment, when we had had discussion, night after night, on the situation of the starving population of Ireland—when we had had complaint upon complaint of the general embarrassment of all classes in England and Scotiandit—it did seem impossible to come to a vote of giving 10,000 l. sine die, l. 1661 l.
 Mr. Monck  said, that this magnificent, temple placed as it was on the top of a hill, might be good as an object to the inhabitants of Edinburgh, but was by no means so as a place of worship. He did not dispute the propriety of gentlemen erecting such a monument of their gratitude out of their own pockets; but he must object to wringing the money out of the purses of a people already overburthened by taxation.
 Mr. Monck  objected to the bill, because he saw nothing in it of a remedial nature. In his opinion redundant population in Ireland was the great source of the existing evils, while the state of society was half civilized, half savage. The, Irish gentlemen ought to do their utmost to introduce among the peasantry, a different mode of living, and to abandon the consumption of potatoes for grain. Ireland was competent to her own maintenance, and ought not to call upon England for any assistance.
 Mr. Butterworth  thought the act, however severe, was a measure of mercy towards the peasantry of Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in the course of the last session, he had brought forward certain statements connected with the British consulate in the Brazils, and on the 22nd of April, in the present year, he had produced a petition signed by 74 merchants in that colony out of 79, complaining of the exaction of extravagant and illegal fees. The noble lord opposite had expressed doubts as to the correctness of the statements contained in that petition; but he (Mr. H.) had dis-
 1659 ad valorem l. l., l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  would put it to the House if this was the time to encourage by gift of 10,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask whether it was true, that the Greeks, in their endeavours to escape from the persecution of their oppressors, by taking refuge in the Ionian islands, had been forcibly expelled from thence by the British government in that station? He would also call the attention of the noble marquis to the fact, that a Turkish frigate was now fitting out at Deptford, with all the stores, ammunition, and arms of a warlike description that could bring her crew and company within the operation of the Foreign Enlistment bill. He had seen a sailor that morning, who told him that he had entered himself on board this Turkish frigate. Now surely it was the duty of ministers, to exert the same activity in prohibiting the subjects of this kingdom from entering themselves aboard a Turkish frigate, which they had manifested in regard to those who had been desirous of enlisting in the service of Naples or of Spain.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that the bill would not inflict tiny injury on the people of Ireland. It has asserted that by its operation trial by jury would be abrogated; but, in his opinion, that would be for the benefit of the accused. It an individual charged with the offences cognizable under this act were to be tried in a disturbed county, it must be either by a jury of those who had suffered from violence, or of men who were the prisoners' partisans. In either case, there would not be a fair trial. In the first instance, the prisoner was not likely to receive justice at the hands of an irritated jury; and in the second, the Crown, stood no chance of a verdict. Under these circumstances, a man would rather be tried by a learned serjeant, than by a jury of the vicinage in which the offence had been committed.
 Mr. W. Smith  supported the measure, because it struck him, as being, in a great degree, a measure of mercy. He would always be ready to grant great powers to the Irish government, if he did not recollect, with feelings of sorrow and indignation, the abominable manner in which the extraordinary powers formerly granted to that government had been abused. He never could forget the dreadful practices for which the Indemnity bill was passed after the commotions of 1798. It was an indelible disgrace for the government to ask for such a measure, and for the parliament to grant it. He believed that the noble marquis at the head of that government was opposed to every thing that had the slightest tendency to an abuse of
 1656
 Mr. Wilberforce  gave his support to the bill, because he thought the situation of Ireland demanded it. The want of social order which prevailed in that country was truly lamentable, and he should be most happy if some comprehensive measure could be introduced to remove the evil.
 Mr. Wilberforce,  having been appealed to by the hon. gentleman, begged to assure him, that for the cause of the unhappy reeks, it was impossible that any one could feel more warmly than himself Indeed he should hope that there could be but one feeling among generous and enlightened and Christian minds on their behalf. It was, in truth, a disgrace to all the powers of Europe, that long ere now they had not made a simultaneous effort, and driven back a nation of barbarians, the ancient and inveterate enemies of Christianity and freedom, into Asia He was at all times far indeed from advocating war, unless peace could only be acquired at the price of disgrace and infamy. At the same time, he must declare, that he knew of no case in which the power of a mighty country
 1652
 Mr. Wilmot  was not aware of any measures which had been taken by the government of the Ionian islands that, could have had the effect of preventing the reception of Greeks in the situation alluded to. No official information of any such measures had been received by ministers. He was unable to satisfy the inquiry of the hon. gentleman in regard to the Turkish frigate, in consequence of the absence of an hon. baronet, by whom it would be more satisfactorily answered.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  observed, that the answer of the noble marquis must prove extremely satisfactory to the country. It was particularly desirable that the commercial interest should be informed that they would be protected in the exercise of their lawful rights.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he held in his hand a petition which he considered to possess peculiar claims upon the attention of the House. The petition proceeded from certain inhabitants of Lees, in the parish of Ashton-under-Lyne, and referred to the sufferings of the Christian Greeks, and the oppressions of the Turkish government. The sentiments contained in the petition were those of all the inhabitants of Great Britain, who at all thought upon the subject. He was sure that the feelings of the people of this country would have been manifested at a more early period, and in a more general manner, if it had not been for the difficulties which opposed themselves to any measure calculated to give a practical effect to those feelings. A simultaneous effort of all the powers of Europe, and an immediate one, could alone be effectual to the cause of these unhappy sufferers. The only security that England or any other
 1650
 Sir R. Wilson  was of opinion, that if ministers would repeal their Foreign Enlistment bill, and give the spirit of honourable enterprize fair play, men would not be wanting to embark in such a cause. He would pledge himself that foreign aid would enable the Greeks to wrest their ancient territories from the Turks, and to take once more their station among the free nations of the world. He trusted that the noble lord would give directions to our government in the Ionian islands, at least to be impartial; for the fact was, that the hostile way in which our authority had been used against the Greeks, had rendered the name of England so odious among them, that not one Greek had yet ventured to solicit upon these shores assistance for his suffering countrymen.
 Sir R. Wilson  thought it most indecent to talk in the present state of Ireland, of giving 10,000 l.
 Mr. Courtenay  then moved, "That Mr. Hope, having confessed himself to
 1674
 Sir. F. Burdett  said, he could not conceal from himself that there existed a general feeling of the great danger likely to arise from their frequent assumption of a power of this sort, and he thought it his duty to urge the constitutional objections which he entertained against its exercise upon occasions like the present. He was not in the House when Mr. Hope was at the bar, nor was he actuated by any personal feeling upon this subject; be the upon which he (Sir F. B.) acted was the same. The House would bear in mind the circumstances of the case. The letter in question arose out of a report in the public papers, of what was said to have passed in that House on a former evening. That report might have been an unintentional, or even a malignant misrepresentation of what really had been said; but were they, nevertheless; to prevent the party whose character and honour suffered in consequence of such a publication, from doing himself the justice of contradicting it? This was an assumption of power on he part of the House which, were it claimed by the Crown itself, would not be for a moment tolerated. The parties in this case felt their characters traduced by a report which they found in the public papers; they complained of that report and asserted that its statements were untrue. But how this could be called a breach of the privileges of that House, he was at a loss to determine. It was absurd to talk of the daily reports in the public papers as breaches of privilege. If this doctrine was to be maintained and acted upon, neither the public press, nor private individuals would be safe. There was a report published, stating that Mr. such-a-one said so and so of such an individual Was not the party alluded tot liberty to contradict those statements in such a manner as he conceived most effective he being of course the best judge of his own conduct? This, he contended, any individual had a right to do without any charge of breach of privilege. If, indeed, a person out of doors called a member to account for what he had said in his place, such member would himself be guilty of a breach of privilege if he did not immediately bring the case under the consideration of the House. But here
 1675 ex post, facto d. 1676 1677
 Mr Courtenay  said, that if he knew himself at all, he came to the consideration of this question with a perfectly unprejudiced mind. Since the introduction of this question, he had continually been considering how he should follow it up; and he felt that that must mainly depend upon the course which the gentleman would take when called to the bar. In looking to the conduct of Mr. Hope, he was certainly disposed to give to the language and manner of that gentleman all the consideration which they deserved. At the same time, that a breach of privilege had been committed, the House had already unanimously decided. Whether he was right or not in having brought the matter forward for the consideration of the House, the House must judge, upon a review of all the circumstances. His great object had been, to prevent a breach of the peace, arising from what he now firmly believed to have been a mutual misapprehension of what had passed in that House. He hoped it would be understood that the privilege which parliament undoubtedly possessed, of freedom
 1678
 Lord Binning  said, he felt it a duty which he owed to the House and also to a beloved friend and relative, to make a few. observations upon the present occasion. It had been said, that if they suffered Mr. Hope to depart without farther question here would be at once an end to the privileges of parliament, the freedom of de-ante. He differed from that learned member, and thought, on the contrary, that on all questions of privilege they were bound to deal with the accused parties as leniently as possible. He contended, in apposition to the learned member, who said he looked in vain for an explanation in Mr. Hope's speech, that explanation had been fully given. He appealed to the House whether they had ever heard a more firm or respectful address than that delivered at the bar by Mr. Hope? It had seen said that Mr. Hope did not explain. Now he did explain, and that very distinctly. He declared that, in writing the letter, he had not the remotest intention of violating the privileges of that House. Charges had been circulated against Mr. Hope, through the public papers, in every part of the kingdom, under which it was intolerable for him to live; they attacked his reputation as a gentleman, and marred his prospects as an advocate. Had the inquiry into the charges against Mr. Hope, been likely to come on this session, the letter would never have been heard of. It was not until it was found that that inquiry was
 1681 1682
 The Marquis of Londonderry  hoped, that neither the zeal of his noble friend, nor the warmth of the learned member for Winchelsea, would interfere with a temperate conclusion by which the anomaly of privilege might be reconciled. He would not attempt the vain task of discussing this subject with the hon. member for Westminster; but he was well convinced that the letter of Mr. Hope was a breach of privilege. It was true, that the publication of the debates of the House was in itself a breach of privilege; but he considered it one that was essential to the public interest. It ought unquestionably to be tolerated, if it could exist without leading to evils which would leave the House no alternative, but to shut its doors and deny the public all knowledge of its proceedings. The breach of privilege now before the House was in the second degree; for if the publication of debates were allowed, it must sometimes produce inconveniences. Recollecting that Mr. Hope was counsel only in the private case of Mr. Alexander, he put it to the House whether he could repel the attack upon him, without at least glancing at political motives. It remained, then, to be considered what proceeding the case required, not forgetting that Mr. Hope, feeling his character at stake, had balanced between a breach of privilege and his own vindication. If the learned gentleman was called to the bar, and the resolution read to him, though the word admonition was not used, it was at least implied, and the indirect censure might have the same effect as a motion of greater severity.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he considered this a most material breach of privilege, because it interfered with that freedom of speech without which the House could not discharge its most important and sacred duties. It distinctly affected the freedom of speech, not only by comment, but by at-
 1687 arena 1688
 Mr. Menzies  said, he felt most anxious to assure the House of the profound respect which he entertained, and always had entertained, for their privileges. But he would shortly state the circumstances which had called forth the writing now before them. A report of a speech made in that House had reached him. In that report he found a severe attack upon his conduct. He found that gross injustice was done to his motives by a false statement of his professional proceedings. If this false statement had originated with the newspapers, he considered it indispensable for him to correct it. If, on the other hand, it had really been made in that House, he felt sure that it had been made in. consequence of false information. He had therefore applied by letter to the hon. gentleman for an explanation of the fact, whether the statement as set forth in the newspapers was correct. To this application he had received an answer, that the hon. gentleman was not responsible for any, reports in the newspapers, but that what he had said was fully supported by the statement in his (Mr. M.'s) own letter. Now, as that statement did not support the reports in the newspapers, he understood this to be evidence that the reports were false. If he had understood it otherwise, he would not have applied the term false to the statement of the hon. gentleman. He had written the paragraph now complained of, under the impression that what Mr. Abercomby had said coincided not with statements in the newspapers considering the statements in the newspapers. Considering the statements in the newspapers false and calumnious, he could not retract word of what he had applied to them; but he solemnly declared that he had not had the slightest idea that what he was doing was a violation of the privileges of that House. 1692
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that the sympathy of the hon. members seemed entirely turned to Mr. Hope, and both his learned friend and the privileges of the House were forgotten. The right hon. gentleman called upon every gentleman to plate himself in the situation of Mr. Hope He (lord A. H.) might also beg them to put themselves in the situation of the learned member who had been attacked. The object in view was, to protect members in the discharge of their duty. But this the resolution now proposed did not at all tend to do. He would ask any man to read Mr. Hope's letter, and say, whether the expressions used there were  bonâ fide
 Mr. Canning  said, that he could not vote for the reprimand of Mr. Hope. It was to be decided whether that gentleman had been guilty of an intentional violation of their privileges, or whether, having a great duty to perform towards himself, that of repelling an injurious and unfounded accusation, he did not suffer a technical impediment to stand in the way of his vindication? The subject had been considered as if it were merely a question between the House and the offender. Undoubtedly, if a person out of doors questioned the freedom of speech in that House, great mischief might follow, and the House would be called upon to vindicate its privileges: but they overlooked a material circumstance, and that was, the existence in the present case of a third party—the reporting press, the creature of their toleration. With respect to the publication of the debates so long tolerated, it would not be practicable to put it down; and if it were practicable, it would not be desirable. Before the House decided upon the case of Mr. Hope, an ardent young man, he trusted that every gentleman would look upon the case of that individual as his own. Living far from this metropolis—moving in a narrow society, where he could scarcely meet with any but those to whom he was individually known—with any but political friends to mourn over his fall—or political enemies to triumph in his degradation—what could be the feelings of such a man were he to pass over an injury such as he had received, without making some effort to vindicate his assailed character? For the learned gentleman (Mr. Abercromby) he felt the highest possible respect for his public and private character, both in that House and out of it. There was one point to which he (Mr.
 1689 1690
 Mr. Tierney  said, that the great object having been attained all, that remained now was, to see that the farther pro-
 1685 1686
 Mr. Brougham  agreed, that if, as had been stated by Mr. Hope at their bar, this was a mere technical and nominal breach of privilege, any the scantiest apology would be sufficient. But he felt unfeigned regret at being obliged to inquire, whether more had not been committed here than some hon. members seemed to be aware of. They had heard Mr. Hope's case. He had felt himself aggrieved by certain accusations; he felt his, character at stake, both privately and professionally; and, under those feelings he sat down to write the letter in question. He would be the last man to weigh too scrupulously the words tied by a gentleman defending himself from an unjust charge. Besides, he was, on other grounds, reluctant to visit Mr. Hope severely on this occasion. But, as regarded that House, he should be guilty of a squeamish delicacy if he did not state that that gentleman had beeen guilty of great misconduct. Besides, they must see, that even if they disposed of the ques-
 1679 1680
 Mr. Abercromby  hoped the House would give him credit for a disposition not to pronounce any opinion in that House on the present question. His object in rising was, to set right a few facts. He could not but express his concern that any act of his should have engaged the attention of that House, and caused the interruption of ordinary and important business. The subject before the House was coupled with circumstances painful to him; if his feelings were only consulted, the present case certainly would not be brought before the House. Much had been said with respect to the statement of Mr. Hope having acted as counsel on the trial of Mr. Stuart. He had read the letter of that gentleman: he knew the impression it had made upon the public and upon members of that House. Having the honour of a seat in that House, he thought that there only was he accountable for any act of his, and that there only was he bound to give an. explanation of his conduct. Upon the subject he had preserved au absolute silence. He had not authorised any
 1683 1684
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that if the letter in question was a breach of privilege, it was their own fault. The original breach of privilege was in publishing a report of the hon. member's speech, but having allowed that report to go forth, it was hard to say, that no man had a right to contradict a statement which he conceived incorrect, and which tended to injure his character materially. If the facts with which the hon. member had been furnished were not true, and if in the report of the proceedings gentlemen saw that that had been circulated which wounded their feelings and injured their characters, would it not be monstrous to say, that knowing those statements to be unfounded, they must not take any steps to contradict them publicly? If the manner in which that report was contradicted, was a breach of privilege, it was the duty of the House to prevent the publication of accusatory statements, where no defence could be entered into. He should certainly vote against any motion having the punishment of Mr. Hope for its object.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  did not rise to oppose any measure of lenity, but merely to answer the friendly appeal to himself of the noble lord opposite. He admitted that he was ignorant of the practice of the Scottish bar already alluded to; but, at the same time he concurred with his learned friend (Mr. Abercromby)as to the use which he had wade of that part of the case. 1691
 Sir R. Wilson  did not think the motion went quite far enough. This was a breach of privilege which the House was bound to notice in a most pointed manner. It ought to take such steps as would protect its members. Many of the most eloquent members of that I louse might have no wish to become gladiators, or to enter the list in defence of every opinion which they felt it their duty to advance in that House. The House ought at least to have an assurance from Mr. Hope, that no farther steps would be taken to produce that result which the hon. mover had been so anxious to prevent.
 Sir R. Wilson  said, that he had, never been more shocked than at hearing the cheers in which hon. members opposite had indulged in approbation of what had been said at the bar. They were assembled there as judges, and by such expression of their feeling, gentlemen rendered themselves parties in the case at issue. It was impossible to expect that impartial justice should be done when such conduct was observed.
 Mr. Hope  said:—Sir, I beg to return my grateful acknowledgments to this
 1669 1670 1671 1672 1673
 Mr. Alderman Wood  contended, that the bill would be injurious to a large class of persons without a corresponding good to the public. The great quantity of beer which a publican was enabled to draw, made the beverage he supplied superior to that which would be afforded by a chandler, who would keep perhaps single barrel, which would, like the small beer now sold in the same way, be sour summer and vapid in winter. In many parts of London good beer was now to be had at 4 d d 1697
 Mr. Calcraft  said, the measure might be necessary and right, but it was of too im-
 1713
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that ministers were not inimical to the principle on which the measure proceeded. On the contrary, the subject had been under the consideration of the Treasury and means, he believed, had been devised to enable the public to brew a middle sort of beer, of a proper strength and body, and at a proportionate duty.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  contended, that the lateness of the session ought not to prevent them from adopting a measure which would confer upon the Canadas a great advantage. If government had not been strongly impressed with a conviction that the change contemplated by this measure was anxiously wished for in both the Canadas, it would never have been submitted to the consideration of parliament. He therefore: trusted that gentlemen would allow the bill to go into a committee.
 Mr. Ellice  felt all the difficulty which an attempt to answer the arguments of his hon. and learned friend (sir J. Mackintosh) imposed upon him, and the more so as he was obliged to acknowledge his entire acquiescence in the general principles he had laid down. He considered, however, the present case a little beyond the scope of their application, or at least as affording, from the peculiar circumstances in which the Canadas were situated, a sufficient justification for the apparent deviation from them, which the present proceeding involved. According to his hon. and learned friend, this measure was to be considered as an unnecessary interference with the rights of the legislatures of the two provinces, in matters which were either permanently settled or left to their regulation by the Quebec act, and he could not see in the state merit of the hon. gentleman (Mr. Wilmot) any case of expediency even, much less of necessity, made out, which could justify passing this bill in the present cession. His learned friend also complained, that there were no documents laid before the House, no expressions of the opinion or feelings of the people for whose interests it was proposed to legislate, and however much disposed he might be, individually, to place confidence in the assertions of the hon. gentleman, they could form no rational ground, for the House to proceed
 1706 1707 1708 1709 1710 l l 1711 1712
 Mr. Bright  accused the advocates of the bill of sophistry, and stood upon the great Canadian statute, which allowed the assemblies of the colonies to make laws, subject to the revision of, the British House of Commons. The law by which a constitution was given to Canada was intended as a permanent measure. It was under that character recommended from the throne, and so acknowledged by every branch of the legislature. They were now about to take away what the legislature had deliberately conferred. Would not that very measure, compared with the silence observed, excite the greatest discontent, if there existed, as he believed there did exist, a sense of spirit amongst the Canadians? It was purely an Upper Canada bill, having for its object to destroy the influence of the Lower Provinces, And give a decided superiority to the Protestant over the Catholic population. If they took away the legislature from Canada, what security would every other British colony have? Where was the security of Jamaica or of any other of our West India dependencies? He protested against any such violation of the rights of British, subjects. These rights were inalienable, and he could not acknowledge those grounds of expediency on which it was sought to violate them.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that on the failure of a principal clause in the Licensing bill, he had thought it his duty to introduce the present measure; and finding so much interest and prejudice working against it, he had thought it necessary to persevere to the present stage. He should now consent to postpone the measure to the next session. He implored the chancellor of the exchequer to turn his attention to some arrangement with respect to the beer duty, so as to afford a middle kind of beer between that which paid the 10 s s s l l l
 Mr. Brougham , in rising to move the second reading of this bill, begged to premise that he meant to cast no reflections on either of those two large and respectable bodies who conceived themselves to be principally interested in opposing it. The hon. and learned gentleman having proceeded to show that within a very few years the population of this country had increased from ten to fifteen millions, while the consumption of beer had considerably decreased, observed that several causes might be assigned for this fact. He was not one of those who suspected the brewers of having adulterated their beer by all those drugs which they were, he believed, with great exaggerations, accused of using; but one of those causes, he certainly, in common with the poor man, did believe to exist, and did absolutely find. It was not that he tasted the deleterious  coculus Indicus quassia, nux vomica s s s s s l s s s s 1693 1694
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that the objections urged against the bill, were founded on a misconception of its object. It did not contemplate any such change as its opponents assumed. The great object of the bill was, to provide for an incorporating union between the two provinces. The question then resolved itself into three parts. First, Whether the parliament possessed the power to interfere; secondly, whether there existed that expediency which justified that interference; and, lastly, whether the present advanced period of the session was a sufficient argument to delay an interference, which; on every other ground, was most beneficial? At to the first point, it was undisputed that parliament possessed the power. The constitution of Canada rested on an act of parliament, which act had destroyed the pre-existing constitution of that colony. The next point was, whether or not there existed that state expediency which demanded such an interference? It was admitted that the consideration of
 1714
 Mr. F. Buxton  expressed his concurrence in all the early and general observations of the hon. member regarding the effect of taxation upon the poor. He contended that this bill would ruin not less than 50,000 persons, and interfere with thirty millions of property; but if it were clear of all other objections, the lateness at which it was brought forward ought to sure ha rejection. He begged the House to separate the case and conduct of the brewers from that of the publicans; for the latter at least were not monopolists; and had not, as had been said, overcharged the trade with capital. As to the London brewers, he was prepared to show that they had not sold any such beer, in quality, composition or strength, as warranted the remarks of the hon. gentleman. After stating the class of persons of whom publicans were generally composed; namely, servants who had made savings out of their wages—he went on to argue from his own knowledge, that the most important part of the business of a victualler was not the beer he sold in his house, but that which he sent out to customers in the neighbourhood. If chandlers and barbers, and other small shopkeepers, were allowed to sell beer, the consequence would be, that a most respectable, industrious, and numerous de-
 1695
 Mr. Denman  limited his objections to the measure, to the simple ground of the advanced period of the session, and the thin attendance of members.
 Mr. Huskisson  thought it injudicious at this period of the session, to legislate upon private property, when the parties interested could not be duly heard. He therefore recommended that the bill should be withdrawn for the present. He contend-
 1696
 Mr. Wilmot  in moving that the Speaker do leave the chair, said, that the matter of the bill before them might be brought under three heads: the first part went to alter the constitution of the provinces of Canada, which had been established by the act of 1791; the second, to apply to Canada the principles of an extension of free trade, which had been sanctioned by the bills of his right hon. friend; the third and last, to settle the appropriation of duties between the two provinces of Upper and Lower Canada. The last of these in order he should consider first; because it was the anomalous position of the provinces in reference to these duties, that had led to the necessity of remedial measures. When the French province of Canada was conquered by the British arms, the criminal law of England was introduced into the conquered country, and the civil law of France was suffered to remain, modified by a proclamation issued in 1763, and by various ordinances subsequently made. The alterations introduced into the French law by these ordinances, led to anomalies in the law, which were remedied by the Canada act of 1774, which restored the French civil law to the province. From 1774 to 1791, the government of the province had been carried on by a governor and a numerous executive council, who had not the power of local taxation, the taxes being imposed by the parliament of Great Britain. Previously to 1791, after the American war, the upper part of the provinces which had been comprehended under the general name of Canada, but which was not inhabited, was colonized by American loyalists. In 1791, the Quebec act was passed, the debates on which took place amidst circumstances which were interesting to every Englishman who studied the history of his country, as the produced the difference between two great men,
 1699 1700 1701
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that in rising to observe upon the very able and perspicuous speech of the honourable gentleman, he hoped it would not be imputed to disrespect for that honourable gentleman if in the course of his observations he alluded less frequently to his speech than might perhaps be expected. The reason why he should not advert to many of the observations of the hon. gentleman was, because they related to parts of the bill, in which he completely concurred. The hon. gentleman had justly observed, that the two great measures connected with these provinces which were introduced in the last reign, one at the commencement of the American war, and the other at the period of the great confederacy against the French revolution, were attended with circumstances of great national interest and importance. The present bill was introduced under very different circumstances. Little good seemed to be expected, and little evil to be apprehended from it, if any judgment might be formed from the thin attendance of the House, which was called upon to consider its merits. The House was now called upon, on the 18th of July, to enter for the first time into the discussion of a bill, the object of which was no less than to change the constitution of two great colonies, to abolish their separate legislations, and unite them into one. He would put it to his majesty's government, whether the present state of the House did not fortify the objections which he was about to make, and which were of a very limited nature, to a part of the present bill? All he contended for, was six months' delay with regard to that part of the bill which related to the incorporation of the two legislatures: to the other parts of the bill be had no objection. The hon. gentleman had divided his measure into three parts. Of the first of these, which applied the principle of a free trade to the inland trade of the two provinces, he highly approved; he concurred equally in the second part of the bill, which distributed between the provinces of Upper and Lower Canada the revenues derived from the port of Quebec; he objected only to the third branch of the measure; or rather to the immediate adoption of that third branch, which related to the Union of the two provinces. He should move, that it
 1702 1703 1704 1705
 Lord Binning  presented
 1717
 Mr. Bernal  expressed his strong disapprobation of the principle and details of the measure. It was no longer called for by any foreign war, but the ground on which it rested was, that it was necessary for the sake of preserving our friendly relations with continental states. He contended, that though it was only to continue for two years, it contained in itself
 1718
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that he had that very morning given directions to remedy the inconvenience complained of. He was aware that steam boats from London to France had been running for some time, but he wished to wait until he saw whether they were likely to become permanently established. Finding that they were likely to continue, he had that morning given directions at the Custom House, that passports should be there delivered to foreigners, in order to prevent the necessity of their going to Gravesend.
 Mr. Hobhouse  then moved, that the bill be entitled. "A bill to repeal so much of the great charter of England, and of other statutes, as relates to the free ingress and free residence of foreign merchants in these islands, and to assimilate, in that respect, the executive authority of Great Britain to the despotic governments of the continent."—The House divided: Ayes, 20. Noes, 69.
 Mr. Wetherell  argued, that the principle of the Alien bill was as old as the constitution of the country. It was a power inherent in the Crown from the earliest periods. Every state in its first rudiments must have the right to admit, exclude, or send away those who were not its subjects. Magna Charta, in terms, applied to merchant strangers only; and they could not come, but under the safe conduct and protection of the king; by which in fact was meant the king's license. There were between 15 and 20 statutes, from the time of, Magna Charta to the reign of Henry 6th, in which provision was made for the admission into our ports of merchant strangers only. How, then, could gentlemen contend, that a right, specifically granted for the purposes of trade, could be extended generally to persons having nothing to do with trade? Magna Charta gave the right of safe conduct to those who came here to trade; but it went no farther. This was the interpretation given to the passage by sir Matthew Hale, and other eminent men. There was a curious document now in existence, from which it appeared, that in the reign of Edward 3rd, a safe conduct was given to a merchant of Bourdeaux "to come here to prosecute his affairs;" which showed that the power to allow or to prevent the entry of foreigners into this country had been anciently exercised by the Crown. If a merchant were coming here, not to prosecute treason, but to prosecute his trade, it would, he admitted, be wrong to prevent him; but the question was, whether the state had or had not the right to exercise this power over aliens? Was languages, which evidently
 1719 1720 ne exeat regno ne exeat regno. ex arbitrio; 1721 1722
 Mr. Gurney  expressed himself satisfied.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that as the present discussion seemed to involve all grievances which did and did not arise from steam boats. He should address the right hon. gentleman opposite on one connected with his department; namely, the compelling all foreigners to exchange their papers, and take up their passports at Gravesend, to their great personal inconvenience, as they are obliged to go there the day before the vessel sails, and either wait its arrival or return to London, where, it should appear, the alien office would much more naturally have been the place for them to apply;—But, within a very few days, a foreigner of high rank had applied to, but was answered, he must go to Gravesend, and might then come back, and embark in London if he pleased. Mr. G. said, he did not mean to make of this a very serious evil, but it was a species of vexation of which the English would very loudly complain, if subjected to it in any foreign country.
 Colonel Stanhope  felt convinced that no person would object to it, who had not done something wrong in his own country. He would beg leave to ask the gallant gentleman, by what law he had been sent out of France?
 Mr. Denman  said, that he was not sanguine enough to believe that there was any chance of defeating this measure in the present session, he still hoped that it might be repealed in the next. With respect to the object and tendency of this bill, the feelings of his learned friend were involuntarily engaged on the side of those who opposed it; and he could not help thinking that this avowal had done him more credit, both as an English lawyer and a gentleman, than any of that arguments, however acute or ingenious, which he had urged in its support. Certainly, if this were merely a bill for modifying and regulating an ancient prerogative of the Crown, his learned friend would be entitled to consider it as a boon to foreigners, instead of an act of oppression. He had always considered the line of argument taken by his learned friend as involving a question of mere antiquarian research; but even upon this feeble and insufficient ground, he was prepared to meet the supporters of the bill. His learned friend admitted, that he could
 1723 ne exeat regno, ne exeat regno, ne exeat regno revertatur in regnum. ne exeat regno. 1724
 Sir R. Wilson  opposed the bill as a disgrace to the national character and as a measure not resorted to in France. Instances of the abuse of the act might be stated in numbers. Witness the case or general neral Gourgaud, sent out of the country upon the deposition of a worthless individual to whom he owed money. Witness the treatment, not only of Napoleon living, but of Napoléon dead. He would read a paper, signed by count Montholon, in which the count declared, that the executors had, at St. Helena, ordered a tablet to be placed, by Mr. Darling, on the emperor's coffin, with an inscription, as follows: "Napoléon Né à Ajaccio, le 15 Aôut, 1769; Mort à Ste Hélénèle 5 Mai, 1821." This tablet, sir Hudson Lowe, would not allow to be placed on the coffin, and would not even permit the initial of that name, which had filled, and will fill the universe, to be inscribed upon it. The bill would no doubt be passed this session; but the hon. member for
 1725
 Sir R. Wilson  replied, by that power which had violated the convention of Paris.
 Mr. Ricardo  expressed his regret, that the right hon. gentleman had been induced to postpone this measure. He hoped he would take into his serious consideration the state of the silk trade, which was now labouring under peculiar disadvantages, and which might compete successfully with foreign countries, if the present high duties, which gave so much encouragement to contraband traffic, were reduced. The Spitalfields act was another grievance to which this trade was exposed, which he hoped government would see the necessity of repealing.
 Mr. Ellice  agreed in the necessity of reducing the duties on the raw material, in order to enable the silk manufacturer in this country to compete with the foreigner.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that previous to the next session, the silk trade would become the object of his most serious consideration. He agreed that at present the trade was suffering under peculiar privations, not one of the least of which was the being debarred the advantage of free labour.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that at so late an hour, and so perfectly conversant as hon. members must be with the grounds upon which his present motion was brought forward, he should not detain the House with any statement of the reasons that induced him to submit it, but should simply move, "That a sum, not exceeding 100,000 l.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that if the cases of aggression complained of were mere cases of undisguised piracy, there would be no difficulty in dealing with them; but the peculiarity was, that the piracy was perpetrated by vessels having commissions. At the commencement of the contest between Spain and her colonies, these commissions had been issued, not only by the provinces which carried on war against Spain on the sea coast, but by powers which had no ports, particularly by Artigas, whose commissions were sold to cover piracies. In consequence of this, the government had issued orders to seize all vessels sailing under commissions from governments in whose ports they were not fitted out. As to the local governments in South America, they had shown every disposition to keep their cruisers within bounds; and, considering the difficulties of the case, had made great efforts to do justice. But when the vessels sailing under the commissions he had described were seized, it was necessary to prove that they had committed acts of hostility. These orders were at last enlarged, and our ships were authorized to seize vessels of the description mentioned on suspicion. He now came to the particular acts of piracy complained of, which had taken place near Cape St. Antonio, and which were first
 1728
 Mr. Marryat  said, the present was a question between the human race and its enemies. There was not now that difficulty respecting commissions that once existed, as those of Artigas had been called in by the authority that issued them, The diplomatic communications with Spain would produce little effect, as this country had just as much influence with the local government of Cuba as Spain had. Cuba, though not nominally independant of the Spanish government, had really paid no attention to the laws of Spain
 1729
 Mr. Marryat  said, he had received strong representations from many persons connected with Canada, that the present bill was likely to produce the most injurious effects. Under these circumstances he should certainly oppose the passing of it, unless withdrawn until next session.
 Sir F. Burdett , without entering into the abstract question, how far it was right to legislate for the interests of our colonies without previous communication with them, begged leave to protest against the exaggerated expressions of the hon. member for Bristol, which imputed to his majesty's government an act of gross injury and violent tyranny against the provinces of Canada. Feeling that great credit was due to his majesty's ministers for the very liberal views they entertained on this subject, and believing, that if the same enlightened system of colonial policy had been much better for this country, he felt it his duty to protest against the harsh and violent expressions of the hon. member for Bristol, which had no foundation whatever in reason or justice.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, that as his majesty's government, instead of finding the support they expected, had been strenuously opposed, not on the principle of the bill, but on the period of the session at which it was introduced, it was obvious that the measure could not be passed, except under circumstances which were calculated to alienate the feelings of the people of Canada from the proposed arrangements. He lamented that the learned gentleman had opposed the measure in a tone of earnestness, which rendered it almost impossible to carry it through in the present session. Under all the circumstances, therefore, he felt it inconsistent with his public duty to press the measure, however much its postponement was calculated to injure the best interests of the people of Canada. He protested, however, against the principle, that parliament had no right to legislate for the best interests of the most distant dependencies, without previous communication with those dependencies. He could not conceive any principle more disastrous, since it was calculated to tie up the hands of the legislature from performing its most sacred duties.
 Sir F. Burdett  regretted the postponement of the measure, and trusted that no opposition would be offered to it next session. The operation of the bill would have been highly beneficial to both the provinces concerned; and he could not help thinking that the gentlemen who had opposed it, had been a little over scrupulous in the cause of technical objections and abstract principles.
 The Marquis of Londonderry  was somewhat surprised at the latitude to which some of the observations of the hon. mover had proceeded. It was not the custom to lay before the House proceedings which had not arrived at any result; and parliament would be placing itself in a, rather embarrassing situation, if it interfered with arrangements in the stage of those in question, and took upon itself a responsibility which regularly belonged to government. His majesty's ministers had never refused to entertain any agents of what was called the Columbian government, although such person had not been received officially; and the representations of such agents had been discussed by government, and made the subject of communication with Spain. He (the noble marquis) did not mean to assert that
 1734 de facto de facto,
 The Marquis of Londonderry  said, the whole was purely a British question, uninfluenced by foreign powers, and resting only upon the law of nations, and the character of generosity and prudence which he trusted this country would ever maintain.
 Mr. Ellice  presented a petition, signed by all the respectable merchants of London connected with Canada, in favour of this bill. He confessed he felt some surprise and regret at hearing the present measure, the object of which was, to give an independent constitution to the provinces of Canada, assimilated, on a former evening, to that odious measure by which the British parliament sought to deprive the province of Massachusetts of a free legislature. He was satisfied that the bill would be received with gratitude by the great mass of the population of Canada.
 Mr. Canning  presented a petition from certain merchants, shipowners, and underwriters of Liverpool, complaining of the numerous piracies in the West Indian seas. The. right hon. member, having detailed the contents of the petition, begged to add some facts with which he had been furnished regarding outrages committed upon British shipping. On the 13th Dec. 1821, when within five miles of Cape San Antonio, a British ship bound for Liverpool, had been stopped by a crew of armed men,
 1726
 Mr. Bright  said, the acts of the pirates at Cape St. Antonio were such direct acts of piracy that he saw no such difficulty in dealing with them as had been described. He could not but admire the superior success of the American navy in dealing with these pirates. This was owing to no superior skill or activity in American officers, but to a better system. The active exertions of our officers in so important a matter should be encouraged; and when, in attempting to execute their duty, they fell into mistakes, they should be indemnified from the legal consequences.
 Mr. Bright  protested, on the behalf of our absent colonists, against the wickedness of introducing so iniquitous and abominable a measure at this late period of the session.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that as it was desirable that parliament, in its Consideration of this question, should be aided by the knowledge of what was passing immediately with respect to it, he should move for the production of all correspondence between his majesty's government and the agents of Columbia. He did this in order that the House might be informed as to what demands of recognition might have been made by Columbia, and as to the manner in which those demands had been treated by England. He could not see that the success of such a motion could interfere in the negotia-
 1732 de facto 1733
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that when these transactions came to the knowledge of government, it sent out instructions to the admiral on the station to seize all vessels which could not prove their nationality, and which had committed depredations on our trade: a statement was sent in answer to government, that no actual proof could be made of depredations committed by any particular vessel: government sent out fresh orders to the admiral requiring him to seize all vessels against which reasonable cause of suspicion existed. With respect to the depredation committed off Cape St. Antonio, the moment the government heard of that transaction it excited their attention. It appeared that the pirates lay at the point of St. Antonio in watch for vessels; that they anxiously looked out in order to distinguish merchant men from ships of war; and that sometimes they made their attack in schooners and sometimes in small boats. So long as our men of war were near the coast, these pirates did not come out, but as soon as they were driven off by winds or currents, the pirates came out in their schooners and boarded vessels that hap-
 1727
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he could not listen without strong feelings of indignation at the narrative of rapine and cruelty which had been practised on British subjects, and the insult that had been offered to the British flag. If they overlooked such an insult, even to the smallest vessel that carried the British flag, they would be unworthy of the name they bore. But as they were deeply interested, they were bound to speak with consideration and temper on matters of such importance, to show that they contemplated them seriously, and were seriously determined to maintain the rights and interest of the empire.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he had never applied any expressions of censure to the bill itself; for he admitted that the conditions of the union appeared to be fair and reasonable. He had certainly deprecated the attempt to pass a bill, depriving a free colony of their constitution without hearing their opinions and arguments for or against the measure. He confessed he had heard the sentiments of the hon. baronet on this subject with the utmost surprise. He had never carried his opinions, as to popular rights, so far as the hon. baronet. He venerated every part of the constitution, and he preferred and loved the popular part of it; but he had never carried his popular principles so high as the hon. baronet. This was the first time he had heard it argued, that an incorporating union of two great colonies was not a most essential alteration of their political constitution. The annexation of Holland to France might, on such principles, have admitted of an easy defence; and it might have been said to the former power, "We do not take away the rights of Dutchmen, but we only communicate to you the rights of Frenchmen." He objected to such an interference with the rights of a free people, on grounds wholly distinct from the merits of the constitution which might be imposed upon them. He no more wished to see liberty imposed on a people than despotism; for even liberty imposed on a people did not deserve the name, and was little better than despotism. The people of Canada had no less than two years' notice previous to the measure of 1791; whereas parliament was now called upon to make a total
 1731
 Sir J. Mackintosh  thought it very fair to make a motion like the present, in order to give the House an opportunity of expressing its feeling upon the particular subject; and such motions had been attended with highly beneficial results. The questions for consideration were simply these:—Would it be convenient for England to recognize the independence of Spanish South America? and would such a recognition by England be any violation of the rights of Spain? Surely, neither of these questions could be connected with any secrets of state. There was a wide distinction between recognizing independence in colonies which had been our own, and admitting it in states over which
 1735 1736
 Sir R. Wilson  wished to ask whether the question of South American independence was clearly a British question, or fettered in any way by the treaties at Aix-la-Chapelle?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expatiated on the advantages of having an uniform and regular edition of our Antient Historians published by authority and at the public expence. This was the more necessary, because individuals were in the habit of printing imperfect copies, which were very carelessly collated, if collated at all. He hoped that even at the present time, when the public money required to be expended with so much
 1738 l.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he never gave a vote in his life with more satisfaction than the present, but he should wish to see it a work of general utility, and one which, devoid of unnecessary splendour, might find easy circulation.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he did not wish for any unnecessary splendour, but still the work should be published in a manner worthy of their character.
 Mr. Dawson  said, that if the poor-laws were introduced into Ireland, the result would be, that the poor would have to support the poor.
 Mr. Bright  hoped the ancient works would be published at full length.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the matter was under consideration. It should be remembered, however, that if the proceeds had been small, the work was of a most laborious and intricate description.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  trusted, that what had fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen respecting the Irish commission of records (of which Mr. G. said he knew nothing), would not be construed to the prejudice of the proceedings of the commission of records in England. In fact, apparent slowness of proceeding was of the first importance. No man not employed in it, could appreciate the degree of patient labour which was required, first in becoming acquainted with, and then in examining and arranging the materials, before works of this nature could, with any hope either of correctness or completeness, be committed to the press. It was well known the public were indebted to lord Colchester, the late Speaker of that House, for the establishment of the Record Commission; for which he considered that noble lord entitled to the gratitude of his country; our records being, he believed, the most ancient and least imperfect of those of any nation in Europe, but, in their then state, for the most part inaccessible, perishable if not perishing, scattered, and uncalendared. The object of the commission was therefore to preserve and render them accessible as documents, by printing and indexing them; and the only error at first committed was the hurrying the sub-commissioners somewhat too much—probably in order to have something to shew for the money expended—by which some of the earlier volumes were rendered less perfect than they otherwise might have been.—As to the object more immediately before the House, almost every nation in Europe had published, or was now publishing, an authorized edition of their earlier national historians; and he considered it a circumstance of great good fortune that the work was to be commenced here at a period when we had the benefit of a gentleman ready to undertake it, gifted with the extraordinary qualifications for the execution of such task, which were combined in the present
 1740
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he wished the petition had been from two Irish, instead of from individuals of two English counties, as he was perfectly convinced that the great calamities which at present afflicted Ireland were entirely occasioned by their having no poor-laws. He was far from stating that all the provisions of the English poor-laws were to be recommended, or that their administration was not susceptible of great amelioration; but until there was, in some shape or other, a localized provision for the sustenance of the poor, under the pressure of adverse circumstances, the state of Ireland could never be other than it was—a perpetual recurrence of misery and insurrection.
 Mr. Hume  deprecated the idea of introducing the poor-laws into Ireland. Let the hon. member look at Scotland. There existed no poor-laws in that country, and yet in no part of it was any severity of distress experienced. He hoped that the ruinous system of poor-laws now existing in this country would, in the course of a short time, be much altered, if not entirely abolished.
 Mr. Hume  did not object to the measure, but he hoped that the business would not turn out as the institution of the Irish Record Office had done. More
 1739 l
 Mr. S. Rice  thought the introduction of the poor-laws into Ireland would be productive of additional evil to that country. He called upon the hon. member to consider that the poor-laws in England had no other effect than that of depriving the poor of that independence of character which had formerly distinguished them.
 Mr.
 1737  presented a petition from Middlesex and Surrey, recommending the establishment of poor-rates in Ireland.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  felt great satisfaction in seconding the motion, and considered the work proposed to be one of the very highest utility. Generally speaking, the government of England was a little in arrear as to its patronage of literature; but it was highly creditable to the state of society in this country, that we saw works got up by individual enterprise which in other countries would have required the assistance of the legislature. With respect to the work in question, however, there were a variety of causes—the great capital required—the great devotion of time—the limited extent of probable sale—and certain laws which pressed heavily upon the publication of expensive works—which were likely to prevent its being performed by individual speculation. For the conductor of the work there was an individual (Mr. Petrie, of the Tower) eminently qualified; and if he were not employed immediately, the desire of employing him might come too late. The work would be a history of the progress of the constitution; and, as such, it would be extremely valuable; and, whatever might be the anxiety not to spend the public money unnecessarily, there could, he thought, be no objection to the principle of the address.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  put it to the candour of the hon. member, whether it would not be better, at this late period of the session, to postpone his resolutions? Whether the principles on which those resolutions were founded were right or not, it was impossible, at the present period, that they could receive a fair or adequate discussion. He would neither admit nor deny the accuracy of the hon. gentleman's calculations; and it was the less necessary to enter into any detailed examination of the resolutions, as the hon. member had himself stated, that they were only preparatory to some future plan, which it was his intention to submit next session. The hon. member's resolutions might all be embraced in three general principles. He attempted to show; first, that immense sums of money had been charged on the public, in consequence of not raising the sums necessary to defray the annual expenses within the year; secondly, that the application of a sinking fund during war had created an unnecessary increase of debt, and of the annual charge; and, thirdly, that as the national debt had been increased, instead of diminished, by the operation of a sinking fund, the system of a sinking fund ought not to be continued. With regard to the first of these points, no man would dispute, that had it been possible to raise the whole supplies of each year within the year, there never would have been any debt. The propriety of raising as much as possible never had been questioned; and resolutions to that effect had been moved on the 27th of July, 1812. If, however, the whole surplus charge of each year had been added to the debt, there would have been, previous to the peace of Amiens, an increase of 40 millions; and, taking the subsequent period of the war, an increase of 210 millions. Every gentleman must be aware that it would not have been possible to raise the whole supplies of each year by war taxes; and if there had been from the commencement of the war as great a taxation as after the peace of Amiens, the probability was, that the burthen upon the country would have been greater. It was but justice to Mr. Addington to say, that vigorous measures
 1782 l l 1783
 Mr. Grenfell  complimented his hon. friend upon the able manner in which he had brought forward the subject, but differed with him as to the propriety of taking away the sinking fund. With every respect for his opinion, he believed the present system for the reduction of debt was the best that could be adopted; but there was no part of his hon. friend's statement in which he more entirely agreed, than that which related to the injurious operation of the sinking fund in time of war.
 Mr. Marryat  said:—Mr. Speaker; while I fully acquiesce in: the motion for issuing a commission, to enquire into the state of the settlements of the Cape of Good Hope, the Mauritius and Ceylon, from which I augur very great advantages, both to those colonies and the mother country, I am also extremely anxious that the same benefit should be extended to another of our colonies,
 1806 l l l l l l l l.; l 1807 l s d l l s d 1808 1809 l 1810 l 1811 l l s 1812 1813 1814 1815 1816 1817 1818 1819 1820 v 1821 v 1822 1823 l.; 1824 1825 l 1826 1827 1828 1829 1830 1831 1832 1833 * * 1834 1835 1836 1837 1838 —Simul alba nautis Stella refulsit,— Defluit saxis agitatus humor; Concidunt venti, fugiuntque nubes, Et minax (quod sic voluere) ponto Unda recumbit 1839 * patres conscripti, decuriones, * * †Gibbon vol. 1, p. 69. 1840 * * 1841 * * 1842 * * ‡ Ibid. vol. 1. p. 412. ‡Franklin's Correspondence, vol. 2, p.80. 1843
 Lord Nugent  said I wish, Sir, to express the sincere pleasure I feel in supporting my hon. friend's motion. The inquiry which is the object of it, is one of the highest importance to humanity and justice. It is at this time peculiarly called for, by abuses which have long been ripening in the Leeward islands, and which have now risen to a character and amount of which the House has but a faint idea. I have to thank my hon. friend for the early intimation, which he gave me, of his present motion. It relieves me for the present from a duty to which, in some measure I stood pledged. The main object which I should have had in view in calling the attention of the House to this subject, has been more than answered by the motion of this night. On the details, therefore, of the measure which I should have submitted, I shall not now enter. In truth, Sir, every question of West Indian jurisprudence is surrounded by very many and very great difficulties. Among these, is the difficulty of separating truth from falsehood, in the evidence obtained from the islands themselves. A general impression of misgovernment may often lead to much rills statement, and great grievances may provoke to great exaggeration. One of the greatest obstacles, in looking to an administration of public justice, such as we all should wish to see perfected in a British colony, unhappily lies in the existence of slavery: it lies in the obvious anomaly of the attempt to introduce the machinery of a free government into a society composed of master and slave. Whilst, however, it shall be unhappily necessary, that to a certain degree this dreadful curse of slavery should yet find countenance in colonies dependent upon England, it is peculiarly our duty to remove those minor obstacles which present themselves to the genera operation of British justice. And here we are met by an obstacle, difficult indeed to deal with; I mean, the smallness
 1804 1805
 Mr. Goulburn  denied the correctness of Mr. Marryat's statements, and pledged himself that papers should be laid on the table, early in the ensuing session, which should fully disprove them. He entered his strong protest against the claim of what was termed the British constitution, and British law, for Trinidad. In a country like this in which we lived, where all the inhabitants were equal in the eye of the law, no system of government could be better adapted to promote the happiness of the community; but, unhappily, this was far from being the case in the West Indies. And in our Slave colonies, the effect of the British constitution, as it was called, wherever it prevailed, was to throw the whole power into the hands of the white oligarchy, to the exclusion of every other class from the enjoyment of the advantages of that constitution;—so that its boasted benefits were confined to a twentieth or thirtieth part of the whole population, who were thus enabled to tyrannize over the rest. In Trinidad there were about 3,600 whites of all ages, and both sexes; but in the same island there were about 14,000 free persons of colour, many of them persons of property; and nearly twice that number of slaves. Now, the Spanish laws secured certain privileges to the free people of colour, and to the slaves, which they did not enjoy in colonies governed by what was termed the British constitution and British laws;—so that, in giving the boon that was demanded to a fraction of the population,
 1844
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, that if he concurred, with the hon. secretary, in thinking that there existed no more than a bare possibility that slavery might be introduced into our new settlements at the Cape, that bare possibility would be an unanswerable argument in favour of the motion. But could we flatter ourselves that there existed no more than a bare possibility? This much was certain; within our dominions there, the value of a slave was 160 l.; 1801 lex loci
 Mr. Hume,  in bringing forward his resolutions, assured the house, that if he had not been strongly impressed with the absolute necessity of calling their immediate attention
 1741 1742 l l l 1743 * * 1744 l.; l 1745 l l l l l l 1746 l l l l l l l l 1747 l l l l s.; s l l s d l s d l l 1748 l.; l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l.; 1749 l l l l l l l l l l s l l l l l l s d l l l l s l l s d 1750 l l l l l l l, l l l l l l l l l l l l l d 1751 l s l l s l l l l l l l l 1752 l l l l l l l l l 1753 s d l 1754 1755 1756 1757
 Mr. Hume  approved of the motion, as tending to economy in the administration of the affairs of the colonies, which had been heretofore profuse and lavish. He was also anxious to have a similar commission for Trinidad, and should move, as an addition to the address, "That his majesty will be graciously pleased to direct that a commission be sent to the island of Trinidad, to inquire into, and report upon, the nature of the Spanish laws, both criminal and civil, as there administered; the extent of the taxes and other burthens imposed, upon the inhabitants; the powers, exercised by the governor; his proclamations respecting grants of land; and other matters that affect the welfare and prosperity of the colony:"
 Dr. Phillimore  cordially approved of the motion. At the same time that he felt the difficulty and delicacy of interfering with the rights, or alleged rights, of the ancient Dutch colonists, he entirely agreed that, with respect to the districts newly settled, liberty ought to be the general law, the  lex loci,
 Mr. Money  said, that the extension of slavery into the new settlements, dependent on the Cape of Good Hope, appeared to him to so wrong in principle, that he most cordially concurred in. the Address. He was decidedly of opinion, that neither the adoption nor the continuance of what was evil in principle, and cruel in operation, could be justified by any view to private or public advantage. In the present case, however, to permit slavery to exist was not only wrong in itself, but impolitic and dangerous. The hon. gentleman saw difficulty in preventing slavery in the new settlements, because it had been allowed by the Dutch laws at die Cape of Good Elope. It was true, that when we took possession of the Cape in 1806, the rights and privileges previously enjoyed by the Dutch had been secured to them; and among those privileges, was that of holding their fellow-creatures in slavery. But, surely it by no means followed, that after the cession of this Dutch colony in full sovereignty to his majesty, we were bound to follow the laws and customs of the Dutch. Those who maintained this proposition, might with equal propriety contend that the abominable practice of extorting evidence by torture, which formed a part of the Dutch criminal law, ought to have been continued; and yet it was one of the first acts of the British government to annihilate that monstrous proceeding. But even if it were admitted, that the articles of capitulation deprived us of the right to prohibit the old Dutch inhabitants from still treating their slaves as property, and selling them to each—other, it could not be expected that, in forming new establishments, we she should furnish them with new customers for their human merchandize. Surely we might make it an inviolable condition, with those whom we permitted to migrate thither, nay whom we assisted with the public money to
 1799 1800
 Mr. W. Smith  said, we had a clear right, and it was no less clearly our bounden duty, to prohibit the very existence of slavery, whether predial or do-
 1797 lex loci? proh pudor! 1798
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, he had no doubt, if the appointments were judiciously made, that great good would result frond the commission.
 Mr. Wilberforce  rose and said: * * 1784 1785 lex loci, 1786 1787 esprit de corps 1788 1789 1790 1791 1792 1793 1794 1795
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that the hon. gentleman had assumed in his argument, that the colony at the Cape, and especially the newly settled part of it, might become a great mart for slaves. Now he thought that such an. apprehension was wholly unfounded; and he firmly believed, that the condition annexed to all new grants of land, that it should not be cultivated by slaves, had in no one instance been violated. The slave population of the districts in which the new settlements had been formed, at present amounted to 546 males and 464 females. The House, however, would recollect, that the districts in question were not to be considered as a new colony, but were part of an old and long-settled colony, throughout which the same laws and institutions prevailed: it would be found difficult, therefore,
 1796
 Mr. Wilmot  rose to move that an humble address be presented to his majesty, "That he would be graciously pleased to issue a Commission under the great seal, to inquire into the state of the settlements of the Cape of Good Hope, the Mauritius, and Ceylon, and also into the administration of criminal justice in the Leeward Islands." The motion, he stated, divided itself into two distinct parts: first, as regarded the Cape of Good Hope, the Mauritius, and Ceylon; and, secondly, as regarded the Leeward Islands. With respect to tiles first, the commission which he proposed to send out was one of a very general nature; for the commissioners would be directed to
 1802 1803
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that if the bill was made optional towards the present holders of office, and only compulsory in future, he would withdraw his opposition to it. His principal objection to the bill was, that it imposed a partial tax upon persons who had never contemplated it when they first entered upon their situations. Many of them had insured their lives, and they would in future be bound not only to pay the annual premium, but an additional 5 per cent. The House was dealing with a class of persons who had discharged no trivial duty to their country, and who had not been by any means overpaid. To the principle of superannuation prospectively, he had no objection. The salaries of the public officers had been reduced; yet even from this lessened amount a farther sum was now to be abstracted. It would be merely just, that those who quitted office should be allowed to recover back what they had contributed without receiving the slightest advantage. The case was one of great hardship and oppression. He had never met with a man who did not think the bill in principle most unfair. After referring to the correspondence of lord Sid-mouth and Mr. Hobhouse, against the bill, the hon. gentleman contended, that it broke faith with the public servants. The project was founded only on expediency, and it was to be enforced because the persons who were to suffer were weak and defenceless. The right hon. gentle-
 1845 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the bill in question was founded on an address which had been agreed to by both Houses. Its object was to bring the salaries of the different public offices as near as possible to the standard of 1792; but in doing this he was most anxious to avoid making any sudden reduction, or, indeed, any reduction which was likely to be felt by the parties. The arguments of his right hon. friend, if good for any thing, would go to prove, that when once a person obtained a situation in a public office, it was no longer in the power of the Crown or of parliament, to reduce or qualify that office in any way. Such a principle, if once introduced, would go to confound vested rights arising out of grants for life, with contingent and general expectations from the present occupation of a public office;
 1847
 The Marquis of Londonderry  assured the House, that he had never felt a more painful duty than that imposed upon him by this bill. The House had appointed a committee to inquire into all public offices, and that inquiry had continued its sittings for up wards of three months. The com-
 1848 l. l. 1849 l. l. l. 1850
 Mr. Canning  considered the bill in principle as objectionable as any measure that had been ever brought forward: it was most unfair to subject any particular class to peculiar taxation. In the arrangements of the measure there was a clear breach of faith. He did not say that it was not in the power of the Crown to reduce the salaries of its official servants without the aid of parliament; but for this House to originate such a plan was in direct opposition to the address of the last session, and could be looked upon only as a species of parliamentary taxation. The bill was obviously a breach of faith towards all who, since 1810, had devoted themselves to the public service, on condition of receiving the benefits which the act of that year held out. He would put an individual case—that of a young man of the highest promise and of most respectable birth, but deprived of his father, who at a time when he was obtaining the honours of his college, and had every prospect of distinguished preferment in the church, was induced to accept a public situation under the Crown on the conditions of the statute of 1810. On those conditions he had relied; but he was now to be told that they were not to be fulfilled—that a large part of his emoluments was to be taken from him. This bill would be to him a grievous injury. It was impossible to know how many individuals had quitted the law, the army, or the church; under the faith of the act of 1810. This bill might also be considered an invasion of the rights and powers of the Crown. Besides, if a man were removed from office, he would lose all he had contributed to this fund: it would really be nothing short of pillaging him to turn him out of his place without returning the money he had annually paid. He saw no remedy for this objection, but by defining in the bill for what faults a man should or should not be dismissed, and under what circumstances he should or should not be allowed to withdraw the
 1846
 Mr. Hume  agreed, that the speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) was one of the most extraordinary he had ever heard. That right hon. gentleman was undoubtedly capable of clothing any opinions he entertained in language which was calculated to produce a considerable effect; but he was much deceived if the speech he had made that night had carried conviction to the mind of any man who heard him. To contend that because an individual made a selection between the church and the public offices, his majesty's ministers were therefore precluded from making any change in the scale of salaries was a most monstrous and absurd principle. Since he had sat in that House he had never heard a more constitutional and consistent address than that which had just been delivered by the noble marquis. He concurred entirely with the noble lord as to the right of the Crown to regulate the salaries of public officers, and the necessity of doing away with the idea of any vested interest in their situations, which those officers might conceive they possessed. The noble lord had stated most fairly, that it was the duty of government to do away with the idea that persons in public offices had any claim to remuneration after any number of years'. He (Mr. H.) thought the present bill did not go far enough, and that it would not answer the expectations of the country; but if the argument of the right hon. gentleman proved any thing, it would prove that government had no right to make any reduction at all. The present bill was objectionable, since it raised a new fund, and involved some complex operations; and he would put it to the gentlemen opposite, whether it would not be better to give up the bill, and proceed at once to a reduction of salaries, at the rate of 15 per cent, which was proportionate to the alteration in the value of money.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had full confidence in the sincerity of the hon. gentleman, and would agree to withdraw his amendment.
 Mr. Wilmot  hoped, that the hon. gentleman would withdraw his amendment, for extending the commission to Trinidad.
 1851
