 Sir Francis Burdett  rose, but the cheering which followed Mr. Brougham's speech, rendered the commencement of
 65
 Mr. Secretary Peel  expressed his satisfaction, that there was such a desire in the House to concur with the sentiments contained in the Speech from the throne, and also with the sentiments which it was proposed to embody in the Address in answer thereto. After complimenting the hon. mover and seconder for the ability they had displayed, he proceeded to state,
 66 67 if if 68 69 70
 Mr. Brougham * * 46 47 48 49 50 51 Te Deum 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64
 Mr. Wildman  rose to second the Address, and after alluding to his own embarrassed feelings, observed, that it was to him a matter of great consolation, that there were so many points in his majesty's Speech which afforded him an opportunity of congratulating honourable members upon the happy prospect of improvement held out to the country. He adverted to the course which his majesty's government had wisely thought fit to adopt in the councils at Verona, and felt convinced that every honourable member would agree with him, that it would have been highly derogatory from the dignity of this country to have interfered with the internal affairs of Spain. He sincerely hoped that the anxious endeavours of his majesty to avert the calamity of war between France and Spain would be successful. He entertained sanguine expectations, that in the east of Europe the mediation of his majesty would have a beneficial effect. He then shortly alluded to the steps which had been taken with the British go-
 43 44
 Mr. Denman  said, that if peace come be maintained, consistently with the honour and security of the country, in God's name let it be preserved; but if
 78 79 80
 Mr. Childe  rose to move an Address to his majesty. He said, he could safely declare, that it seldom fell to the lot of an individual to stand in a situation of greater embarrassment than he did at that moment—a situation which strongly called for that patience and favour, which he was taught to believe the House never denied to an individual addressing them for the first time. He rejoiced that the Speech of his majesty contained so frank and so satisfactory a declaration of those principles which admitted the right of self government on the part of other nations. He was sure that that admission would give satisfaction to all descriptions of his majesty's subjects. He was sure that it was, that it had been, and that it ever would be, the wish of this country to maintain the dignity and the honour of the crown; but, after the long hostilities in which it had been engaged, the House, he was persuaded, would feel with him, that it would be the height of impolicy to rush into a war, unless on a question mainly and deeply affecting the interests of the country. A war was to be avoided, on account of the fresh burthens it would necessarily impose, and on account of the injurious
 38 39 40 41 42
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, it was not his intention at all adversely to meet and discuss the speech just delivered, as he applauded many of the just principles it contained, and commended the reserve which ministerial prudence dictated, as to the application of future measures adapted to particular circumstances. As
 71 72 73 74 75 sine qua non, 76 77
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, he was afraid he should be accused of great presumption in offering himself thus early to the notice of the House, after the two speeches which they had just heard; but though not called upon, he should still offer a few words, not to move or second, but to third the Address. He would not, however, detain the House by going over the general topics to which it referred. It was only upon that part of it which related to the foreign policy of the country, that he would raise his feeble voice. It was with real satisfaction that he found ministers following the good old feelings of the country, and not advocating an interference in the internal concerns of another state. He was glad to find that the instructions given to our ambassador at Verona were to be silent on the occasion when the other states raised their voices in support of an interference with Spain. By silence, he meant not acquiescence in, but opposition to, that interference. He thought this country was bound to show to France and the world, the absurdity,
 45
 Colonel Davies  expressed his concurrence in the sentiments of independence which had been so generally expressed by the House in the discussion of the former evening. There was one point, however, in which he differed from the gallant officer who had addressed them with so much spirit at an early period of the evening. That gallant officer had ex pressed a hope, that we should preserve
 86
 Mr. Hutchinson , though he agreed with every syllable in the Address, contended, that stronger language ought to have been put into the king's mouth, in the present critical situation of affairs. Such language would have struck terror into the congregated despots of the continent, and would have shown the sons of freedom in Spain, that the population of this country, from the prince down to the peasant, was determined to thwart the designs of their oppressors. The whole continent was at present looking up to the conduct of this country; and such a declaration from so high a quarter, would have excited it to a successful opposition against the tyrants who were oppressing it. He hoped ministers would be able to show, that not only had this country not joined at Verona in the unprincipled aggression upon Spain, but that it had opposed itself to it with all its influence. He cordially agreed in every sentiment which the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea had last night expressed, respecting the iniquitous notes of the three great continental powers. He rejoiced to hear the king advising his parliament to take into consideration the state of Ireland, and An improvement in the habits and condition of the people of Ireland could not, however, be effected by words alone,
 87
 Dr. Phillimore  said, he could assure the House, that it was with considerable regret he felt himself again obliged to trouble it on the subject of the Marriage act; but the House was so circumstanced with respect to it, that he felt it a duty to submit some alterations therein. It would be in the recollection of hon. members, that after several years, during which bills on this subject were sent up to, and rejected by the other house of parliament, a bill was last year sent up, which, in the opinion of most members, was so well calculated to answer its object, that it did not call for that species of comment to which it had been submitted in another place. He spoke with the less delicacy on this subject; for though he was one of those who were active in promoting the measure, the principal parts of it were not his, but were drawn up by persons the best calculated for such a duty. In that state the bill passed the House of Commons, and was sent up to the other House. It pleased that House, however, to leave only two clauses of the original measure; along with which they sent back a code of amendments clogged with difficulties almost insuperable, making the whole a piece of legislation extremely complicated and inconvenient. When the bill returned, it was late in the session; and the House was in this difficulty—either to reject the measure altogether, and thereby delay the benefit to be expected from those clauses which could be operative in removing the evil, or to allow the whole to pass, and wait till the present session for the repeal of the objectionable clauses. He being the hum-
 81
 Mr. Childe  having brought up the report of the Address in answer to the King's Speech,
 Sir R. Wilson  said, it was not his intention to disturb the unanimity which prevailed in the House on the present aspect of foreign affairs; but he could not suffer that opportunity to pass without offering a few words. After the impression which the powerful address of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had produced on the House last night, it was far from his intention to trespass on their time for more than a few moments; but, a word had fallen from a right hon. gentleman last night which be thought called for some remark. He had understood the right hon. gentleman to mention the word "neutrality." Now, he would anxiously wish to guard the House against being too confident that that would not he the course adopted by this country. A more disastrous course could not be pursued, as far as Spain was concerned; nor one less honourable to the character of this country. If once that part were decided upon, what was there to prevent France from passing the Pyrenees, and attempting to carry into effect her wicked, and he would say, premeditated project? But if she found the whole coast from Bayonne to Dunkirk exposed to the operations of our fleets, she would be more cautious how she ventured to advance with a chance of our being actively employed against her. He had no doubt, if the right hon. gentleman had given a pledge of neutrality on the part of this country, that he had done so in the expectation that it could be rendered valid. That, however, would be found to be a work of no little difficulty. We should recollect, that the approaching contest between France and. Spain would not be for a boundary line: it was an attempt on the part of the former to put down the constitution—the free choice of the Spanish nation—that constitution which the allied sovereigns at Lay bath had declared they would put down wherever they met it within their reach. But it was not Spain alone that we had to look to. Portugal, too, must be expected to be brought into the contest. She also had a constitution which the emperor Alexander would not recognize; and she would no doubt be anxious to defend it. But supposing Portugal to be so unwise, and he would even say, so base, as to desert Spain in her
 83 84 85
 Mr. Grenfell  concurred with his hon. friend as to the folly of that system which induced government to lay before the House and the country this most idle and unsatisfactory account. He thought, however, that his hon. friend ought, in justice to the late chancellor of the exchequer, to have stated, that that right hon. gentleman had pledged himself, that the whole of that system which his hon. friend reprobated would be re-modelled; and that in future, the account of the sinking-fund should consist only of the surplus of income over expenditure.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that one of the earliest objects of government would be to bring the subject of the sinking fund under the consideration of the House, for the purpose of simplifying the system, and rendering it more intelligible.
 The Lord Mayor  (Mr. Alderman Heygate) deprecated any interference with the sinking fund system, from which the country had derived so much benefit. The proposition to enable the commissioners of the sinking fund to lend the money paid over to them for the service of the year, originated with one of the greatest ministers this country ever saw. It had been approved of by Mr. Fox, and was supported by Mr. Sheridan, and other eminent men, who usually sat on the opposition side of the House. It was a provision which arose from an act of the legislature at the time to which he had alluded; and he confessed he heard with great regret, that it was intended to depart from that system of financial arrangement which had rendered the credit of this country superior to that of any other state in the world. He would contend, that the sinking fund, by the way in which it had been managed, had enabled Great Britain to cope with the most powerful enemy that had ever been opposed to her. The system had been adopted by America, France, Russia, and Prussia; in short, it had been acted on wherever there was any thing like a representative government. He trusted, however anxious gentlemen might be to reduce the taxes, that still there was a spirit in that House which would, he was going to say, compel government to keep faith with the public creditor.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the intention was merely to bring in a bill to simplify the system, and thereby to render it more intelligible.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  fully concurred in every syllable which had been said on this subject. Though he conceived the measure which had been passed last session to be completely inefficient and impracticable, he was of opinion, that the discussions which it had occasioned had been of the greatest service. He trusted that the measure which government had in contemplation, would meet with that
 90
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought that the hon. gentleman had no just reason to complain of the vague declarations made by his right hon. friend. The proposed measure would be brought forward at a period sufficiently early to enable the hon. member for Aberdeen to obtain the fullest discussion of his motion upon the same subject. It was desirable that that motion should be postponed, until the plan of the Irish government had been introduced.
 Lord John Russell  begged to know whether it was true, that his majesty meant to make a gift of the late king's library to the public. If such were the case, it was a proceeding well calculated to strengthen the attachment of the people to the House of Brunswick; and he wished that the high utility of the present might be preserved, by its being placed in such a situation as should make it generally accessible. It was a general complaint, that the metropolis had no sufficient public library; for that of the British Museum
 93
 Colonel Trench  cordially concurred in the prayer of the petitioners. If that prayer was granted, much would be done towards securing the tranquillity of Ireland. The present system of church government in that country was as injurious to the protestant, as it was hostile and oppressive to the catholic part of the community.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the government of Ireland had, from the first moment of its arrival in that country, been sedulously endeavouring to discover, some mode of removing the evils which arose from the present system of collecting tithes. In the last session, he had brought forward a measure for that purpose; and though it might not have been as efficient as he could have wished, still he could not join in condemning it as the useless and impracticable measure which his hon. friend had described it to be. The subject had since that time been again taken into the consideration of the Irish government; and he trusted that when he should submit it to the notice of the House, it would be found worthy of its support and approbation.
 Mr. Hume  saw no reason why he should give way upon this subject, especially after the long delays on the part of ministers. They, or their friends, had been twenty-five years in office, during which they had done nothing to remedy the admitted evil. It was this delay of remedies that had rendered it necessary to keep down the people of Ireland by military establishments. It was now understood that the clergy of Ireland, after a long and strong opposition, had consented to commute their tithes, for, an acreable assessment. He had no objection to mention the general nature of his
 91 l., l., l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume , in rising to move that a series of financial papers which had been laid on the table of the House, should be printed, was anxious to preface his motion with a few observations. The title of one of these papers was, "An Account of all Sums paid over to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, for the year ending the 5th Jan. 1823;" and from that document it appeared, that 15,853,000 l.
 Mr. Spring Rice  asserted, that a more inefficient measure than that of last session had never been passed. Not one individual throughout Ireland had attempted to take advantage of it. As the declarations of the right hon. secretary were now of the same vague and unsatisfactory nature that they were last session, he trusted that his hon. friend would on no consideration postpone the motion of which he had given notice.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the report was well-founded. No particular arrangement as to the disposal of the gift had yet been made; but he doubted not that the object aimed at by the noble lord would be duly attended to.
 The Speaker  reported the King's Answer to the Address as follows;— 89
 Sir H. Parnell  presented a petition from the grand jury of Queen's County, praying for a commutation of tithes. He said, he knew of no measure more likely to put an end to the unfortunate disturbances which had so long distracted his ill-fated country, than that which the petitioners prayed fur. He had been informed that the noble marquis at the head of the Irish government, intended to propose to parliament some specific plan for effecting an alteration in the tithe system of Ireland. If that plan should fortunately prove successful, he would confer one of the greatest benefits upon Ireland. As the manner in which tithe was at present exacted was productive of equal inconvenience both to the payer and to the receiver, he trusted that the clergy of Ireland would not oppose the attempt which the noble marquis was now making to reform the system. He likewise hoped that his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) would postpone the motion of which he had given notice, until that which was to be submitted from the Irish government had been introduced to the House.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  condemned the attack made upon the yeomanry corps of Ireland, as most unfair and illiberal. The corps which he had the honour to command, instead of being composed entirely of Orangemen, had not a single Orangeman in it. Indeed, to the best of his belief, in the yeomanry corps in the south of Ireland, nine out of every ten men were Catholics. In the county of Clare there was one corps in which there were only ten Protestants, and another in which there was not even one; and yet to that corps the government had been chiefly indebted, on a late occasion, for the quiet of the county. Unless the hon. member intended to assert that the yeomanry corps were altogether useless, he ought not to oppose the present bill, of which the sole object was to place them under military control. The superannuations appeared to him to be made upon the best principle, and certainly not from corrupt and profligate views. The hon. member had alluded to the superannuation of a major Collis. He could not tell whether there were two brigade majors of that name; but if the major Collis alluded to was the same major Collis who had been the inspector
 96
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he was not prepared to explain at that moment whether Mr. Collis was as strong or as infirm as the hon. member; but if it was his intention to bring that grant under the notice of the House, he should be prepared at a fit opportunity to give the necessary explanation regarding it. At present, he should confine himself to the mere explanation of one circumstance, namely, how so many brigade majors were found on the list. At the close of the war, the number which before had been very great, was reduced to the state in which it existed at present; and the supernumeraries were placed on the half-pay. Since that time, whenever any vacancy had occurred in the brigade-majors which it was determined to keep up, it had been filled up out of those supernumeraries; and therefore there was no ground for the insinuation of-the hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Goulburn  asked leave to bring in a bill to continue and amend the acts for training the Irish Yeomanry. As these acts would expire in a few weeks, he thought it requisite to move for their renewal at as early a period as possible.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that an act had been passed last session, to do the very thing with regard to the crown lands of Ireland, which the hon. member seemed now only to find out would be a convenient thing. As for the measure intended to be founded on these papers, it had already been carried into execution.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he could assure honourable members, that he never entertained the slightest intention of hurrying this bill through the house. He had placed it thus early upon the table, in order that it might receive the fullest discussion. He could assure the hon. member for Calne, that the time would soon come when the circumstances to which he had alluded would be brought under the consideration of parliament.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the right
 95
 Mr. Hume  said, that before he gave his consent to the introduction of this bill, he must ask the right hon. secretary whether the Irish Police act of the last session had not, in a great degree, rendered it unnecessary? The acts which it was now intended to renew, were productive of an annual expense of 66,000 l. 94 l. 1. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was aware of the act alluded to, directing the lands to be sold. What he complained of was, not that the House did not make laws enough, but that they were riot executed.
 Mr. Hume  referred to the manner in which the two exchequers of Great. Britain and Ireland had been consolidated and united some years ago. He saw no reason why the same plan should not be pursued with regard to all the other departments, as was now the case with Scotland. A paper laid upon the table last year showed the enormous salaries of an immense number of persons dependent upon the lord lieutenant of Ireland, nearly the whole of which expense might be saved, if the system he recommended were adopted. He should hereafter bring forward a proposition to remove the lord lieutenancy, and all offices connected with it, to London. He was anxious, particularly, to call the attention of the House to the office of vice-treasurer of Ireland, a useless expense of between 7,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in the paper to which he had before alluded, he found this entry—"Edward Collis, 136 l.
 Mr. Hume , in moving for various documents relating to the Russian-Dutch loan, observed, that few were aware that, by a convention dated in May 1815, Great Britain agreed to pay to the king of the Netherlands a loan of three millions advanced to Russia. Perhaps, therefore, at that very moment, the emperor Alexander was preparing to make war upon Spain, with the funds of this country. The consideration for this payment was the possession of the Cape of Good Hope and Demerara, which had since cost Great Britain about half the original purchase-money, and they must always remain a useless burden. He wished to know what amount of prin-
 97
 Mr. Hume  moved that a Copy of the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire respecting the Crown Lands and Quit Rents of Ireland, be laid before the House. As he intended to submit a motion to the House on the subject, he thought that a copy of the commissioners' report should be laid before it. He intended to subunit that the whole of these crown lands and quit rents should be sold, and the proceeds appropriated to the payment of the national debt. If put up to sale, he was persuaded they would fetch two millions. The hon. member complained, that the triennial report relative to woods and forests, which ought to have been laid on the table last year, had been kept back. It was intended, he said, that the whole of the crown lands in Great Britain should be available for the public service; but at present they rather increased the burdens of the country, being wholly wasted in pensions. He then moved for a Copy of the said Report; and an Account of the Sums transferred to the Three per Cents, on account of the crown lands, and also of the Forfeited Estates, in Ireland.
 Mr. Spring Rice  reminded the last speaker, that his remarks on the manner in which some yeomanry corps were constituted only applied to those in the south of Ireland. The yeomanry force of Ireland amounted, however, to 30,000 men, and of these 20,000 were raised from the single province of Ulster. Now, he would contend, that all the objections to the yeomanry corps, arising from the Orange infusion by which they were tainted, applied in full force to the yeomanry of the province of Ulster. If some measure was not proposed to put down the processions of the Orange societies, which were known to be illegal, he should endeavour to add a clause to the present bill, to prevent the yeomanry from joining in them; because, alarming as they were at all times, they became doubly dangerous when men with arms in their hands formed a part of them.
 Mr. Peel  denied that the individual in question, or indeed any other, had been allowed to retire, for the purpose of giving facility to the appointment of another person in his stead.
 —Mr. Wallace  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for the revival of the committee of last session, to consider of the best means of maintaining and improving the Foreign Trade of the country. He made this motion not merely upon the general ground, that the commerce of the country was likely to receive important advantages from the labours of such a committee, but also upon a special reason, arising out of the circumstances under which the committee had separated at the close of last session. He was sure that the House would recollect, that when the dock system was first established in this country, certain exclusive privileges were granted to those who expended their
 99 100 l.; l. 101 102 103 104
 Mr. Baring  rose to acknowledge the obligations which the trade of the country owed to the right hon. gentleamn. The merits of the right hon. gentleman were fully appreciated by the merchants of London. There was but one opinion amongst them, and that was, that since the first establishment of the Board of Trade, all the exertions of all its former presidents were not, when united, equal to those which had been made by the right hon. gentleman alone, during the time he had tilled that office with so much honour to himself and so much advantage to the community at large.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that the real question was, whether government ought to take the case out of the hands of the hon. member for Limerick, who had commenced the proceeding in 1821. Was there any reason why he should relieve himself, and throw the burthen upon the shoulders of others? Ministers must, of course, be at all times anxious to facilitate these proceedings, and had done their utmost to carry the reforms recommended by the commissioners into effect. They were by no means desirous of shrink-
 110
 Mr. Grant  by no means agreed, that in moving for a committee, the marquis of Londonderry had pledged government to prosecute the complaint. He thought, however, that the best course which could be taken at present, would be to refer the whole matter to a committee anew.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  cordially agreed in what had just fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen. He regretted, as much as any man, that any circumstances should have occurred to induce his right hon. friend to withdraw his aid from his majesty's government. What those circumstances were was not perhaps a fit subject for discussion: he could only say, that there was no member of the government who did not join with blot in appreciating most highly the talents of the coadjutor they were about to lose. Though feelings of delicacy might induce his right hon. friend to relinquish the situation he now held, no effort would be left untried, on the part of the king's government, to replace him in an office equal to his high abilities and eminent services.
 Sir R. Fergusson  expressed his esteem for lord Beresford's character, and his sense of his public services; but he felt that, on this occasion, private friendship ought to give way. He would therefore support the motion.
 Mr. G. Bennet  supported the motion. He thought his hon. friend, was perfectly right in availing himself of every constitutional opportunity of pursuing his useful career. He wished the question to be fairly put, that it might be seen whether the House would support it or not.
 Mr. Hutchinson,  in rising to support the motion, would neither be understood to undervalue the merit of lord Beresford, nor to withhold from the government those supplies, which, at the present momentous crisis, were necessary for the dignity of the country. The motion was merely one for information; and he would not have it go abroad, that, at such a juncture, the House had neglected to support an inquiry, the object of which was to lessen the public burdens.
 Sir F. Burdett  said:—I fully agree with what has fallen from my hon. friend who has just sat down. I think it quite clear that no beneficial results can arise, from a perseverance in the proposed amendment. I am prepared to support every proposition which has for its object an expedient reduction of the public expenditure; and I give to the hon. member for Aberdeen all the merit to which his resolute and unceasing attention to the
 117
 Mr. Canning  said, he would submit to the House, and to the hon. gentleman himself, whether the question was in such a shape at that moment as would justify his pressing it. He did not mean to say that it was not competent to the hon. gentleman to pursue the course he was now adopting; but it surely could not be advisable to resort to the extreme remedy of stopping the supplies, until he obtained an answer to his question, without having given previous notice of his intention to submit it to the consideration of the House. To say that it was unusual, he knew was only to urge an argument which the hon. gentleman was at liberty to reject or to admit. But the House would say, whether it would depart on this occasion from its established usage, and in the present stage of the business reprobate an appointment, which the hon. gentleman admitted was without the  gravamen 114 115
 Mr. Ricardo  rose for the purpose of paying his tribute of respect to the merits of the right hon. gentleman, who had so lately filled the office of vice-president of the Board of Trade. He would say this; that, much as the right hon. gentleman's plans had benefitted the commerce of the country, they would have benefitted it still more, had all of them been fully carried into effect. They had met, however, with too many obstacles from interests that were hostile to his improvements; and, though he regretted the circumstance much, he must still observe, that those interests ought to be tenderly dealt with. He thought it would be wiser to make a compensation to any parties who might be injured by the alteration, than to persist in a system which was proved to be detrimental to the commercial interests of the nation at large. He had heard with the greatest pleasure, the very liberal speech which the right hon. gentleman had made that evening; nor was it with less satisfaction that he had heard his flattering account of the export trade of the country. It had been said, that the exports were greater now than they had been during the most flourishing year of the war. It ought likewise to be stated, that during the war our great foreign exports went to meet our great foreign expenditure; whereas at present we received valuable returns for every thing we exported. In looking at the general state of the country, it was satisfactory to find that, amid the gloom and distress in which the agricultural interests were involved, its foreign commerce was in a flourishing condition. He was sure
 105
 Mr. Brougham  felt himself obliged to oppose his hon. friend's motion. He did so with regret; but the question was one which it behoved the House to deliberate upon seriously; and as this could not be done without the assistance of the members of that department to whom it belonged to defend the appointment, he wished it should be postponed to a period when their presence could be ensured. It was far too important to be taken up by the House thus incidentally; and if any thing could tend to confirm him in the opinion, that it should be postponed to a more favourable opportunity, it was the line of defence adopted by the right hon. secretary. He had given very satisfactory reasons why lord Beresford had been chosen; but he had not given the shadow of a reason why the offer of the appointment had been made to any one. The question did not, and could not, apply personally to lord Beresford. No man could be more ready than he was to admit the services of that meritorious officer. Nothing could be more natural than that the duke of Wellington should offer this appointment to him, as well as to two others of his gallant companions in arms; but still the information was wanting, why the office was in existence to be offered to the one or the other. When the vacancy occasioned by the death of general Oakes offered an opportunity of putting an end to it, there could be no doubt that the country had a right to be informed, why that opportunity was not immediately seized upon. There was another objection, besides that of stopping the supplies, which occurred to him, against the further discussion of this subject at the present moment. It was not consistent with parliamentary usage. When information was required, it was obtained, either by an order that it should be laid before the House, when it was within the power of the House, or by an address to the throne; but it had never been the practice to ask for information, without stating by whom it ought to be granted. He should be glad if his hon. friend would postpone his motion for the present, giving, at the same time, notice of his intention to bring it before the House at an early opportunity.
 Mr. Goulburn  was confident that the hon. member must anticipate the reply he should give to the inquiry contained in what had been just stated, and he trusted that the House would concur in the propriety of the course which government thought itself called upon to pursue. True it was, that the marquis of Londonderry occasioned a further inquiry into a part of the case; but it did not follow, that it was the duty of ministers to proceed with the other parts of it. The committee had been appointed to obtain further information for the general satisfaction of the House; and it seemed to him (Mr. G.), that for government to take up the charge under the particular and especial circumstances, would be a great injustice to the individual inculpated,
 109
 Mr. Abercromby  contended, that the marquis of Londonderry, by the proceeding he had recommended, and by the committee he had appointed, had, in point of fact, adopted this accusation. There was no duty more important than for a government to watch over the due administration of justice. He also objected to this being made a party question; but the way to render it so, was to leave it in the hands of an individual member, and to direct against him all the influence of ministers. This charge had for several years been depending against the chief baron, during which time he had gone the circuit, and had tried criminals, when perhaps he himself ought to have been put upon his trial. If government did not proceed, they would be guilty of an abandonment of their duty. If the hon. member for Limerick would take his advice, Le would recommend him to drop the subject, in order to see whether ministers would venture to remain passive spectators.
 Mr. Abercromby  had always been taught to consider, that it was one of their most valuable privileges to be able to stop the supplies. He therefore thought they ought not to call it into action, but upon the most important occasions. His hon. friend's motion stood upon strong grounds. He would suggest to him the propriety of disconnecting it from the question of supply, and of letting it stand upon its intrinsic merits.
 Mr. Hume  consented to withdraw his amendment. After which, the House went into the committee.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the House was in no way taken by surprise. Any gen-
 116
 Mr. Hume  said, he had been pleased, and indeed every man in the House must have been pleased, with the promises held out in the Speech from the throne, as to economy and lightening the burthens of the people. But, however unpleasant it was to doubt the words of the throne, when those words were formally addressed
 111 l., l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 112 l. l. l. l. 113
 Mr. Hume  rose to express his deep regret that the country was likely to lose the services of the right hon. gentleman, who, for the last two or three years, had devoted his attention so beneficially to the public. If ministers had had the interest of the nation as much at heart, as the making a provision for their friends, they would have contrived, in some way, to have secured the assistance of the vice president of the Board of Trade. It had most fortunately of late become the general opinion, that the interest of the state was involved in the interests of individuals, and the labours of the right hon. gentleman had been applied to carry this principle into effect. It was, therefore, deeply to be lamented, that he was compelted by circumstances to retire from his situation.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, he never meant to assert that the marquis of Londonderry had given any distinct pledge on the part of government; yet certainly the moving a committee of his own nomination, was a most extraordinary way of leaving the matter in the management of himself (Mr. Rice). Though he had been the proposer of this inquiry, he had never discussed it in any other way than by calling on government to do its duty. Not that he shrunk from any responsibility; but as this was a great public inquiry, and as it had now received the sanction of a committee, and was borne out by facts and documents, he did think that he might call upon the government for a more marked and earnest declaration of opinion than they had as vet given. He protested against the supposition, that this was to be considered as the charge of any individual member. It was the charge of the parliamentary commissioners, after a judicial inquiry; it was the charge of a select committee above stairs, and he was only the instrument, on the present occasion, of bringing the case under the notice of the House.
 Mr. Spring Rice  requested the attention of the House while he brought before it a subject of the greatest importance. He alluded to the administration of justice in Ireland, and particularly the charges contained in the 9th and 11th reports of the commissioners of inquiry against chief baron O'Grady. He did not wish to go into the merits of this great question at the present moment. He would now only state specifically what had been done on this sub
 106 107 l. 108
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that not finding any intimation from government of its intention to bring forward measures for the relief of the agricultural interest, he wished to put one or two questions to the ministers of the crown. He was much gratified to find the last paragraph in the royal Speech, characterizing the lauded interest as the most important interest of the country; but he regretted that that sentiment was not followed up by a pledge, that government would meet the great question of agricultural depression in that manly way which its consequence demanded. He dreaded lest the landowners of England were to be left during another session in their present depressed—he had almost said degraded—situation. It was impossible for government not to be aware of their distress. The five hun-
 118
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said:—It is quite impossible to find fault with the hon. baronet, and nobody can be less disposed to do so than myself, for having availed himself of the opportunity of bringing up the present report to express his regret and disappointment at not seeing introduced into his majesty's Speech from the throne any specific promise of relief for the agricultural interest. On the other hand, the hon. baronet does great injustice to his majesty's ministers, if he supposes that either on this, or on any former occasion, they have been deficient in a desire to give relief, if relief be practicable, by any of those direct measures which the hon. baronet deems to be beneficial; still less, if he supposes that they do not look with the most sincere sympathy to distresses, which have undoubtedly prevailed to a degree which every man who is interested for the welfare of the country must acknowledge and deplore. If it had been in the power of his majesty's ministers to afford relief, they would not have waited for the call of the hon. baronet. I regret, as much as the hon. baronet, that it was not possible to add to the concluding paragraph of the king's Speech a declaration of his majesty's ministers' intention to propose some specific measure of relief; but I am sure
 119 120
 Mr. Robertson  was anxious, as he felt deeply interested in this question, to offer a few remarks for the consideration of the House. He wished to bring the question distinctly before them, and to state what were his views and intentions with respect to it. They had heard, from time to time, different reasons assigned for the prevailing distress. He, however, believed, that the system of credit which had been adopted in this country for many years, was one great cause of the evils the people were now labouring under. As this suggestion was new, he threw it out for the consideration of members, previously to the period when he might bring it more formally under their consideration. During the French and Spanish war, from 1740 to 1749, the government borrowed money at the rate of 3 and 4 per cent. Now, he would contend, that if their credit was as good at present as it was then, they should not
 122 l. 123 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Curwen  said, he deeply lamented, that his majesty's ministers had come at last to this conclusion, that no relief but that of time could be afforded to the distresses of the agricultural interest. He did not hesitate to say, that the country was placed in a more perilous situation than any in which it had yet stood, by the declaration of the right hon. secretary; nor did he see any prospect of amelioration, except from a remission of the direct taxation, which immediately affected the agricultural interest. It was not sufficient to relieve the community in general, ministers must come directly to the point of relieving the burthens of the agricultural interest. It was far from his wish to break faith with the public credi-
 121
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that the petition was well deserving of attention. He was sorry not to see any of his majesty's ministers in the House, as he was desirous of hearing what support the petition was to receive from them, and what answer they could make to its statements. The petition complained of their conduct as the cause of much suffering. It set forth, that almost all of which it complained arose from the line of conduct pursued by ministers, and from the want of a proper representative system. It was not too much for him to say, that it emanated from as respectable a set of men as any in England. The members of the corporation amounted to 262; and they had all, with the exception of about 12, agreed to this petition. Many of them had been annually returned for fifty consecutive years; and whatever gentlemen might think of the city parliament, the elections were made in the different wards without riot and confusion. He would not then make all the use he might of this fact, in support of the principle of annual elections; but he would say, that when men were annually re-elected to offices of trust by those to whom they
 126
 Mr. Alderman Wood  apologised for again troubling the House; but he now saw some of his majesty's ministers in their places, and should be glad to hear them express their opinions on the petition.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  disclaimed any intention of not doing full honour to the worthy alderman and to the city; but he could not conceive any necessity for him to listen to the petition, as he had read it in all the newspapers some months ago.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  (Mr. Robinson) begged to remind the hon. gentleman, that the government had given its cordial assent to one of the measures of economy winch had been recommended, and had carried it into effect by an act of parliament. As to the first topic, that of the crown lands, the hon. gentleman was entirely mistaken. The revenue arising from them was regularly carried to account. He was no holder of crown lands, but he knew many individuals who were; and he would venture to state, that of all the severe landlords in the country, the crown was the most so. It was provided by law, that they should be let to the highest bidder. The last holder of the lease had the option of taking a renewal at the rate fixed on by a
 136 l.,
 Lord John Russell  said, he saw so little objection to the proposal of Mr. Creevey, that he would move for the committee in question to-morrow. It gave him infinite satisfaction to see the growing interest which all classes were taking in the question of reform.
 Mr. Canning  said, he did not propose to answer what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, because he believed no one who had heard his speech, could understand any practical benefit which he had proposed by it. He did not mean, if the amendment had not been withdrawn, to have opposed it; nor should he have added another word, but for the mention which had been made of one exalted personage, whose name he could not use consistently with the forms of parliament. That personage had been singularly, and he thought unconstitutionally, introduced into the speech just delivered. He should have thought, that, in common justice, the sacrifices which had been made by the crown for a series of years, and the disposition which had been unceasingly manifested for the reduction of every unnecessary expense, deserved from the hon. gentleman very different treatment.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the state of the crown lands was one of those subjects which called for the attention of the House, and which ought to be looked to before the supplies were granted. They had been given up by the crown; and, by an act of the first of queen Anne, they had been placed apart, for the express purpose of relievin the burdens of the people. He did not
 135 l. l. l., l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Creevey  rose to express his surprise at the mode in which ministers now-a-days called upon the House for supplies. He believed there was scarcely a difference of opinion upon the state of the country;
 128 129 130 131 132
 Mr. Creevey  thought, that one of the most important features in the petition was the statement applying to the population of England. It appeared, that between the year 1700 and the present time, our population had increased from five to twelve millions; and yet, during this increase of the population, the industry, and the wealth of the country, the elective franchise (as regarded the number of persons enjoying it) had been stationary, if not abating. For instance, 1,900 men in the county of Cornwall elected more members among them than were elected by one half the other counties in England; and this while new towns of immense consideration had sprung up, which were kept without any elective franchise at all. If these new towns, with populations of three or four hundred thousands—towns which contributed largely to the income, to the power, to the security of the state—if the inhabitants of these towns were totally shut out from the elective franchise, while 1,900 (he believed he might say) of the most worthless individuals in the country enjoyed an enormous, monopoly of it, surely all this called for something like revision. That part of the petition which complained of the
 127
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, he would be in his place at every discussion of reform, and would give his opinion to the best of his ability.
 Mr. W. Lamb  expressed his surprise at the line of argument adopted by the hon. member for Appleby. It was most unsatisfactory and inconclusive to go back to the period when the privilege of purveyance existed—that privilege which gave to the agents of the monarch the right to seize, in every market or other place, provisions and other things necessary for the supply of the court; and which was, of all other branches of the prerogative, the most tyrannical and intolerable. Nothing could be more marked than the distinction between those times and our own. The Revolution had altered the situation in which the granting of supplies had previously been placed. Before that period, the crown had been possessed of large territories, from which it derived considerable revenues, and which could be made available in cases of emergency. The abolition of the feudal tenures had deprived it of this revenue, and had thrown it upon the liberality of parliament for the support of its honour and dignity. To hesitate to vote the supplies, would be to doubt the propriety of giving effect to the operations of the government.
 "Mr. Speaker ;—I have been hitherto silent in this matter of undertaking, wherein the House is much enwrapped first, because, to be plain with you, I did not well understand what it meant or what it was, and I do not love to offer at that that I do not thoroughly conceive—that private men should undertake for the Commons of England! Why, a man might as well undertake for the four elements. It is a thing so giddy and so vast, it cannot enter into the head of a sober man, and especially in a new parliament, when it was impossible to know who should be of the parliament; and when all men that know ever so little the constitution of this House, do know it to be so open to reason, as men do not know when they enter into these doors, what mind themselves will be of until they hear things argued and debated; much less can any man make a policy of assurance what ship shall come safe into the harbour in these seas. There were undertakers for the plantations of Derry and Coleraine, in Ireland, the better to command and bridle those pacts; but for the ancient parliament of England, which moves in a certain manner and sphere, to be undertaken, it passes my reach to conceive what it should be. Must there be some forts built in this House that may command and contain the rest? Mr. Speaker, I know but two forts in this House, which the king ever hath—the fort of affection, and the fort of reason: the one commands the hearts, and the other commands the heads; and others I know none. Then for the king, nothing can be more opposite to his ends and hopes than this, for you have heard him profess like a king, and like a gracious king—that he Both not so much respect his present supply as the demonstration, that the people's hearts are more knit to him than before. Now, then, if the issue shall be this, that whatsoever shall be done for him, shall be thought to be done but by a number of persons that shall be laboured and packed, this will be rather a sign of diffidence and alienation, than of a natural
 133 l.
 The Speaker  having put the amendment, strangers were ordered to withdraw; when Mr. Creevey said, he should not give the House the trouble of dividing; but would content himself with recording his own sentiments upon the Journals, and letting his amendment be negatived.
 Mr. Grenfell , in moving for a return of the Balances of the public money in the hands of the Bank of England, observed, that in 1815, when he first brought this subject under the consideration of the House, the deposits lodged with the Bank amounted to no less a sum than eleven or twelve millions. The loss to the public from this source was estimated by the committee on the public expenditure, at more than 500,000 l. l.; 137 l. l., l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as he had no objection to the production of the papers, he should decline entering at present into the subject. He stood in need of all the information which could be afforded him; and he felt that none could be more valuable than that of the hon. gentleman. When the papers should have been produced, if the hon. gentleman thought proper to submit a motion on the subject to the house, it would be his duty to state the conduct he proposed to pursue.
 Mr. Baring  expressed Ins surprise, that his hon. friend had again made that statement to the House which had been so often refuted. The subject of the balances in the hands of the Bank was one of which he had not lost sight for many years. He had stated, that these balances had formerly amounted to 11,000,000 l., l. l., 138
 Mr. Grenfell , in reply, said, that the warmth with which his hon. friend (Mr. Baring) defended the proceedings of the Bank was not at all surprising, when it was recollected, that he was a director during the period of the transactions of which he had so often complained. He was a party to all that had been done, whether it were good or ill. His hon. friend went back to the charter, and the terms upon which it had been made with Mr. Pitt, and concluded, therefore, that the question of balances was closed. But, did he recollect that, eight years before that period, the Bank had agreed to give up three millions without any interest whatever? Did he recollect that Mr. Vansittart, after having always denied the
 139 d. d. d. d. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Maberly  wished the Bank to have a good bargain, and thought they should be liberally treated; but he thought also, that it was the duty of the chancellor of the exchequer to ascertain whether the act relative to the rate to be paid for management was conclusive, upon which he understood the highest legal opinions were divided. He had no doubt that 100,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could not give at that moment a positive answer to the question of the hon. member.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, it had been observed, that a difference of opinion existed between legal authorities, as to the liability of the Bank to have the charge for the management of the public debt re-examined and altered. He very well knew, that an opinion had been given on this subject. Sir Samuel Shepherd, when attorney-general, and the present attorney-general, at that period solicitor-general, gave it as their opinion, on the case which had been laid before them, that the system could not he interfered with. But the opinion of no legal man was infallible; and the view which a lawyer took of any question must depend on the way in which the case was put. When he saw that case and opinion, it struck him that the question was not stated in the way in which it ought to have been; and he thought that if it had been drawn up properly, the legal opinion would have been, that the act of 1808, did not close the question; but that the subject was open to revision.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it was true the Bank had made a compensation for the grant of the charter; but it was not sufficiently great for the advantages they had so long possessed. If, during his continuance in office, the Bank of England should apply for a renewal of the charter, he hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would be particularly careful that they did not overreach him. Before any such bargain should be made, it would be the duty of the right hon. gentleman to consult the House as to the terms of it. If it should be open to public competition, much more would be given for it than had ever yet been offered. From the advantages which the Bank had derived, it was impossible not to see, that the terms had been very much in their favour.
 Mr. J. Martin  intimated his intention to make a motion on the subject.
 Mr. J. Martin  wished to know, whether
 140
 Mr. Hume  would take that opportunity of throwing out a suggestion, that it was probable the Bank charter might never be renewed. A million and a half might be saved by the establishment of a national bank. He knew some notions had got abroad respecting the danger of such an establishment; but when it was recollected that they had an annual payment of 60,000,000 l.,
 Mr. Manning  said, that the subject had been under the consideration of the bank directors, and that an order had been issued to prepare such account.
 Mr. Manning  said, it ought to be stated, that that case was not drawn up by the Bank, nor submitted to counsel, with the privity of the Bank. It was the work of other parties; they were not responsible for it. After the opinion given, gentlemen must feel considerable doubts whether any alteration could take place in the charge for managing the public debt.
 Mr. Manning  said, that the deposits of the balances of public money were necessarily made with the Bank, because the government could not safely intrust them to any private hands. When the accounts should be produced, he would show, and he hoped satisfactorily, that the Bank was justified, by their charter, in all they had done.
 Mr. Ward  said, he rose for the purpose of opposing the motion of the hon. gentleman on the most plain and palpable ground. The hon. gentleman, in express terms, stated, that the commissioners of military inquiry had declared, "that the appointment of lieutenant-general of the ordnance in time of war was unnecessary." Now, out of the hon. member's own mouth would he convict him; for, on looking to the report from which he had quoted, it would be found that his statement of the declaration of the commissioners was not the fact, but that the
 149 150 151 152 153 154 l. l. l. 155 l. l. 156 l. 157 l. l. 158
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that although he should be perfectly content to go to the vote upon this question in the state in which it had been left by his hon. friend, yet having himself, upon a former evening, been particularly called on by the hon. member for Aberdeen, to account for the nomination that was now the subject of inquiry—having been, at that time, wholly unprepared to give an answer to the demand so made—having since made it his business to render himself fully acquainted with the real facts of the case—and having, finally, come to a most conscientious and determined conviction, that a falser allegation was never made, than had been made against the office of lieutenant-general of the ordnance—he could not content himself with a silent vote on the present occasion. It would be in the recollection of the House, that the hon. gentleman had brought forward his charge on the former night, with almost every possible circumstance of aggravation. It was not only that an useless office had been revived and continued, after a committee appointed to inquire into the ordnance establishment had suggested its abolition—not only that this had taken place in defiance of all the general principles of economy, and of a specific recommendation of retrenchment in this particular—but that it had been done from the corruptest of motives, with the basest of purposes; that it had been given, at the instance of the government, to an individual wholly unworthy of the appointment. It was imputed to them, that it had been given to this individual for the sake of his family and parliamentary connexions. [Cries of "No, no," from the Opposition.] He affirmed most confidently, that the charge went forth, on that occasion, against the government, and against lord
 161 162 163 164 165 166 l. 167 l.
 Mr. Macdonald  said, that with a disposition to save every farthing that could be spared, consistently with the efficient management of the several public departments, he felt himself, in common with sundry friends around him, somewhat embarrassed by the wording of the present motion. The motion had, it was said, for its ground, the recommendation of a report of the commissioners of military inquiry. Now, before they decided upon that ground, it would be necessary to ascertain what was the object the commissioners had in view in making this recommendation. It appeared to him that time recommendation was a conditional one, and depended upon the re-modelling of the board of ordnance. How far such a measure might or might not be of advantage to the public service, he would not stop to inquire; but he knew that the re-modelling had not taken place. This being so, and having, on the one hand, a regard for every possible saving of the public money, as great as that of his hon. friend, and, on the other, a disposition not to pass undeserved censure on the master-general of the ordnance, or on his majesty's ministers, he could not vote for such a motion without further inquiry. The commissioners had examined lords Chatham and Moira, who gave opinions not much unlike; but the duke of Wellington might, have reasons for agreeing with, or differing from both. With the experience which his situation must have given him, he did not see why the opinion of the duke should
 171
 Mr. Canning  said, that he, for one, could not consent to the motion being withdrawn.
 Mr. J. Williams  said, that a feeling was abroad, that, under existing circumstances, the expenditure of every unnecessary farthing was not merely a pressure on the nation, but an insult upon its understanding. Yet, this was the season in which the hon. gentleman opposite, with so much ingenuity and apparent triumph, had thought proper to treat with so much jocularity a subject of this important nature. If the hon. gentleman, in speaking of the report of the commissioners, meant to say, that the distinguished persons by whom it had been prepared, were not, in truth, competent to report upon the ordnance establishment, why did he not at once move that the subject should be re-considered? The hon. gentleman had said, that the commissioners had adhered to the opinion of lord Chatham in the statement which they had made as the result of that noble lord's evidence before them. Now he (Mr. Williams) contended, that, with the exception of certain generalities in that evidence, where the noble lord had not condescended to make any specific statements, it resulted, that the noble lord's opinion on the subject was always delivered upon the presumption of the absence of the master-general of the ordnance. The hon.
 159 160
 Mr. Hume  rose to reply. He could assure the House, it was not his intention, in the few remarks he had to offer, to imitate the example of the right hon. gentleman, by putting himself in a passion. The right hon. gentleman had talked of falsehood, and calumny, and misrepresentation, and other epithets which were wholly unworthy of him. Let him not imagine, however, that he (Mr. H.) was to be driven from his duty by such a mode of argument. He could not have imagined that the right hon. gentleman would have felt so much annoyed by
 168 169 170
 Mr. Hume,  in rising to submit the question he was about to propose to the House, trusted he should have credit for having given the subject much consideration; and he assured the House it was one well worthy its attention. By an act of the 45th year of the late king, a com-
 141 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 142 143 l. 144 145 l.: l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. 146 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l., l. 147 l.; l. l. l. l. l. 148 l., l.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he had not refused to communicate to the noble lord whatever information might be necessary for the fair, candid and dispassionate meeting of the great question of parliamentary reform, which the noble lord had brought before the House for several years, and of which he had given a notice for the present session. In the remarks which he should take to the liberty of making upon the speech and motion of the noble lord, he should not be drawn into the larger question, but would confine himself to the specific motion before the House. Before he came to state the objections which he had to the motion itself, he could not help remarking that, if the present motion were carried, it would go to prejudice the people, with regard to what he trusted was the feeling, and would be the decision of the House, upon the great question. Undoubtedly, it would be agreed, that the carrying of the present motion, without opposition, would give a false impression to the public, on the subject of the great
 175 176
 Mr. Secretary Canning  was at a loss, then, to know what the noble lord really proposed to gain by his motion. The right was in most instances contained in the charters; and, unless he had strangely forgotten, when the noble lord gave notice of his motion some nights ago, the subject of the charters had been particularly put forward. In that notice, which he then held in his hand, the return of the charters had been specifically mentioned, together with the number of voters. If he meant, however, now to limit the power of the committee, and not to give them authority to inspect the charters, how would the result of their investigation be more satisfactory than the information already in the possession of the noble lord? The noble lord had said, he did not expect perfect accuracy in the return: his purpose, then, was answered by those accounts which were now floating about the country. He agreed that, if on a debate as to the expediency of a reform in parliament, it had been denied that the right of election was vested in small corporations, and placed in the power of a limited number Of voters, the noble lord would in that case have had a right to call for information; but it would be in the recollection of the House, that long before the question of reform had been under the protection of the noble lord, for the last thirty years, during which the debates upon this subject, though not quite annual, had been very frequent, there had never been one in which the fact of these small corporations, and the limited number of their voters, had been contested. For himself, and for all those who had taken the same view with himself of this question, they always set out with this admission. He would give the
 177 178
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought that none of the objections of his right hon. friend had been removed. The hon. and learned gentleman had said, that these objections were visionary, inapplicable, and founded on exaggeration; but this he would deny. The hon. and learned gentleman had begun by throwing aside the general objection to the motion, and saying, that the noble mover was the judge of what information was best for his purpose; hut, would any one say, that information which was to be afforded by that House, should be framed to answer the private purposes of any member? If the object of the noble lord were obtained, it might be productive of the most serious consequences. The object was to expose the deformity of the boroughs; but, if' the noble lord meant, in his plan of reform, to retain the whole, or a part of these boroughs, he would ask if the exposure was prudent? The hon. and learned gentleman had denied, that any part of the noble mover's object was to expose the charters of the towns. Why, then, could not the information in that case be procured without the intervention of a committee? Did he not propose to follow this up by a power in the committee to examine persons, papers, and records? How was it possible to limit a question which was in its nature so sweeping? Why, under a committee possessing such ample powers, might not the charters be produced and exposed? The charters of private persons were exposed only in cases of litigation, and those of the boroughs should be so only in cases of disputed election. The hon. and learned gentleman had said, that there was a precedent, in the case of the Scottish county representation; but in that case there was no difficulty, and nothing to disclose. The whole of the voters were enrolled in the list of freeholders; and the information which had been obtained with regard to them, was not obtained through the medium of a committee. In the appointment of this committee, therefore, there must be some ulterior object—some other end in view. If this were not the case, why had the noble lord never thought of the committee till the present session? The House ought to pause, and consider, that the
 182
 Lord J. Russell  said, that if the gentlemen opposite would agree to afford the returns for which he had moved, he would give up the committee.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he did not mean to call for the production of the charter. The right hon. gentleman had misunderstood him if he supposed that such was the object of his motion.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that if he were not aware that opposition was likely to be made to the motion of which he had given notice, he should not have troubled the House with a single observation in support of it. He was about to move for a plain arithmetical statement, of the number of voters who returned members to the several cities and boroughs, and the right of voting as it was usually exercised in those cities and boroughs. To such a motion he should not have conceived that any objection could be made. Understanding, however, that it was to be opposed, he should state shortly the grounds and precedents upon which he was entitled to call for such a return. A remarkable facility had been afforded of late years, on the other side of the House, in granting papers and documents which were calculated to afford information on any subject which was brought under its consideration. He would mention one or two instances of recent occurrence which were directly in point. His noble friend (lord A. Hamilton), who had shown so laudable though so fruitless a zeal, for the reform of the representation in Scotland, had a short time ago moved for a return of the number of freeholders who returned the county members of Scotland. His noble friend had obtained that paper, by which it appeared, that the county members of Scotland were returned on an average by 70 or 80 constituents. No longer ago than last night, his noble friend had obtained another return, showing the actual condition of the royal burghs of Scotland. Why, then, was he to be treated with less courtesy than his noble friend? Why was a return to be denied to him which was necessary for the consideration of the great question of reform? In the other house of parliament a committee had been appointed, in 1815, to search for records and documents relative to all matters touching the dignity of peers of the realm. The House of Lords had no fear for the investigation of the origin of their dignity, and accordingly a report came forth, under the auspices of lord
 173 174
 Mr. Abercromby  confessed, that he had felt a considerable degree of curiosity to know what con hi possibly be the grounds upon which the right hon. gentleman would oppose the motion of his noble friend; as the information required was so perfectly harmless, and the motion itself was in reality so detached from all other subjects. He had thought that there could be no rational opposition to it; and the result had showed him that this opinion was correct. The right hon. gentleman had brought forward two objections; one of which existed wholly in his imagination; and the other proceeded upon an exaggeration, or rather, he would say, upon a misrepresentation; unintentional he was very willing to grant, but
 179 180 181
 Mr. Creevey  said, that when he had on a former evening addressed the House on the subject of the petition of the city of London, he had stated, that the population of Great Britain had increased, from the year 1700 to the present time, from 5,000,000 to 12,000,000; and yet that, during this enormous addition to our people, the monopoly of the elective franchise in cities and boroughs had been stationary, or had rather decreased; that, by way of example, whilst Manchester, Sheffield, Birmingham, and Leeds, had arrived at that degree of wealth and consequence, that they might justly be considered the strength of the nation, in talent, enterprise, and industry, 1,900 voters in the county of Cornwall retained a monopoly of the elective franchise, by which they sent to parliament as many members as were returned by one-half of the counties of England, and the great towns to which he had referred returned none at all. They had the population returns laid before them last session; and why, he wished to know, should there not be produced as accurate a return as could be possibly made out of time number of voters in each borough? The right hon. gentleman, and his right hon. colleague, who had supported him in opposing the motion, stood forward and said, "We will admit the number of voters in boroughs to be as few as you please to assert." But, was the House to be thus satisfied? This was the first time he had ever heard that, because a minister of the crown thought proper to say, "I admit such a
 183 184 185 186
 Mr. Peel  could not pledge himself as to the opinion he would give upon any motion which was not before the House; but he would meet it on its own merits when it was brought forward.
 Lord Milton  said, he merely rose for the purpose of ascertaining precisely what the real ground was upon which his noble friend's motion was to be resisted. He felt it extremely difficult to reconcile the ground of opposition laid down by the right hon. member for Harwich, with that which had been adopted by the right hon. member for Oxford. The first defended the present borough system, on the broad ground that it was fitting such a state of things should exist; while the other right hon. gentleman took quite a different course, and asked, "Will it be prudent to expose the defective state of the representation?" Now, was the motion to be resisted on the ground of its being imprudent to expose those defects, or for the reasons advanced by the right hon. member for Harwich? That right hon. gentleman stated, that the House had at present all the information which it was possible to collect on the subject, and that he would have no objection to more accurate information, if he could devise
 187
 Lord Folkestone  said, he held in his hand the petition of a gentleman of the name of Thomson, to which he wished to call the particular attention of the House. The case of this gentleman was one of extreme hardship; and although gentlemen might have some difficulty in making up their minds as to the mode of giving relief, he thought, when they had attended to the case, they would almost unanimously agree that something ought to be done for him. He thought the House would agree, that this was a case in which the petitioner was entitled to relief; for he had been involved in these difficulties by no fault or extravagance of his own, but by the delays of the court of chancery, and the depreciation which had taken place in the value of property. The hon. member for Hertfordshire had come to him (lord F.) in the course of the preceding day, and stated, that he did not think this by any means a case of hardship; for that Mr. Thomson had made a wild, improvident purchase, and that his misfortunes were the necessary consequences of his own rash speculations. He had made inquiries with a view to ascertaining the correctness of this statement, and he would leave the House to judge from the petition itself, whether the case of the petitioner was that of a rash speculator in land, who had no claim to relief.—The petition was from Charles Andrew Thomson, of Chiswick, in the county of Middlesex; and the allegations of it were as follow:—
 189 l.; 190 l., l. l., l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. l.; l. l. 191 l., l., l. l.; l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; 192
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said:—I take occasion, Sir, from the few sentences which have fallen from the hon. and learned member, to offer my acknowledgments for the manner in which he has expressed his opinion. Undoubtedly, the present vote no more limits the liberality of parliament, than it limits the capacity of the country. If an occasion should arise to render it necessary to enlarge the supply, there will be no hesitation, on the part of ministers, to come down to this House with an explanation of the circumstances that require an increased vote. But having said this, for the purpose of obviating any possible mistake that might be entertained as to the powers of this House, I am sure the committee will pardon me if I stop here—assuring them, that the present state of Europe is one, on which the discussions in this House can produce no greater effect than has been already produced by preceding discussions; but on which they may possibly do harm. Much as it is the wish, and much as it is the want, of this country, as well as of Europe,
 194
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, and addressed the committee as follows: *
 Mr. Baring  thought it impossible for any one to have given an explanation more clear or satisfactory, than that which they had heard from the chancellor of the exchequer: He concurred, however, with the hon. member for Portarlington, in doubting very much the amount or accumulation of interest which the right hon. gentleman included in his statement of the sinking fund. He concurred with his hon. friend in thinking, that we had a
 222 l., l. l. l., l. l. l.; 223 l. l. l. 224
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had forgotten to mention, that it was his intention to propose a measure which would have the effect of simplifying the operations of the sinking fund.
 Mr. Robertson  contended in favour of the necessity of supporting the landed interest—an interest upon which, after all, the government must principally rely for its resources.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that, before he adverted to the part of the subject which he
 214 l., l., l. 215 l. l. l., l. l. 216 l. l. 217 l. l.,
 Lord Folkestone  concurred with all that had been said by preceding speakers, regarding the luminous arrangement and the good feeling, which pervaded the speech of the chancellor of the exchequer. At the same time, he felt considerable disappointment, that the right hon. gentleman's observations did not contain a single allusion to the distress under which the agricultural interest at present laboured. Indeed, he could scarcely collect from the right hon. gentleman's speech, whether he admitted or denied the existence of that distress. One part of it almost led him to suppose, that the right hon. gentleman denied it; for he had said, that the increased productiveness of the taxes had arisen from a greater consumption of the article upon which those taxes were imposed; and had thence inferred, that the country was rapidly progressing to an increased state of prosperity. Now he (lord F.) contended, that there was no natural connexion between these two subjects. He was aware, that it had long been the fashion with chancellors of the exchequer, to come down to the House, and to congratulate members upon the great sum which had been raised by the taxes. It appeared, however, to him, that this ought to be rather a subject of condolence than of congratulation; for though a minister might, with propriety, congratulate the country, if he had a productive revenue with a light taxation, he did not see what right he could have to do so, when the productiveness of the revenue arose from the heaviness of taxation. He should contend, that as things were at present managed, the distress of the agriculturists increased in the same proportion as the revenue was abundant. It was now the fashion to cry up the necessity of maintaining the public credit unimpaired, and to cry down all those who ventured even to hint a syllable in derogation of such a doctrine. Now, he asserted, that it was not fair to push the doctrine too far. Two years ago he had stated to the House two cases, in which it would not only not be fair, but would be positively unjust, to maintain what was called public credit, with the strictness which its advocates required. Those cases he would not now repeat; though at a fit opportu-
 230
 Mr. Grey Bennet  felt it his duty to remind the gentlemen opposite, who had talked so much about dealing honestly with the public creditor, that it was also their duty to deal honestly with the public debtor. The country, he maintained, was only bound to pay the debt which it had borrowed; and he would never allow more to be exacted from it by any shuffling trick regarding the public currency, to which parliament might have consented, by lending its aid to the government to despoil at one time the public creditor, and at another the public debtor. He would never allow time people to be stripped of the last farthing of their property by a system which had created greater misery, and inflicted greater spoliation, than had ever been inflicted upon any people by any system, invented under any form of government. The question of the currency must come again and again before the consideration of parliament. The people of England would not consent to be robbed in the manner that was now attempted. County after county would petition, and demand from the House—not spoliation, but justice; and parliament would be compelled, in the long run, in spite of itself, to come to that equitable adjustment of contracts, which he now claimed at its hands for the people of England, not as a matter of indulgence, but as a matter of right. The people of England would not allow themselves to be stripped of their last shilling by an act, which the House had enacted ignorantly, and with no intention of robbing them; but which had produced all the effects of intended spoliation upon them and their fortunes. He should have been ashamed of himself, if he had left the House that night, without making this explicit declaration of his opinions. Those opinions he should be prepared at a proper time to state more fully, and to justify, by details and facts, which would prove, even with mathematical certainty,
 231
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, at the end of the
 233
 The chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he rose to reply to a remark of an hon. gentleman, as to a pledge given last session. The means of facilitating the sale of beer had by no means escaped his attention; but he could at present say no more than that he was extremely anxious to find out a measure, which should give facilities to the consumption of beer; as well for the benefit of the consumer, as for the ultimate and indirect relief to the parties concerned in the production of malt.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he remembered, that at the termination of the last session, he had frequently to repel the attacks which were made upon the science of political economy. He had been delighted, however, to hear the plain, sound, practical; and excellent speech, which had been delivered by the right hon. gentleman opposite; and he thought that the science of political economy had never before had so able an expositor as it had now he found in that House. He thought that there never yet had been in that House a minister filling the situation which was held by the right hon. gentleman, who had in that capacity delivered sentiments so candid, so wise, and so excellent. In all the statements which he had made, it was impossible not to follow him with the greatest ease and safety; for it was in all these quite clear, that each of them was, in fact, as the right hon. gentleman had put it. But, there was this one difference—an important one, certainly—between him and the right hon. gentleman. The right hon. gentleman had stated the surplus of our income over our expenditure at 7,000,000 l. l. l. l. l. 220 l. l. l., l., l. 221 l. l.
 Mr. Brougham  was rather surprised that a larger number of seamen had not been voted, considering the alarming state of Europe. Indeed, when he reflected upon that most alarming state, he felt a difficulty in reconciling a vote for so small a number of seamen, with the dangers to which the commerce, and eventually the honour and safety of the country, might be exposed. There was still, however, this alternative, and it was a consolatory one, that the supply which any emergency might call forth, was not limited by this vote. The voting of 25,000 men that night, did not take away the power of increasing the number to any extent that
 193
 Mr. Brogden ;— If, sir, I do not, upon the present occasion, ask any peculiar indulgence from the House, it is not that I do not feel how much I stand in need of it; but it is because I feel, that, having voluntarily undertaken to discharge the duties of the office which I now hold, I am necessarily bound at the same time to incur all the responsibility that may belong to it. I trust, however, that I may venture to ask for a patient and a candid hearing; patient, because I fear I must detain the committee for a considerable time; and candid, on account of the great importance of the subjects upon which it will be my duty to enlarge. And I own that I am the more anxious to request that attention from the committee, because it is impossible that I should not feel under what disadvantage I address the House upon a subject of this nature, when I recollect that I stand in the place of one, whose many talents,—whose long experience,—whose amiable character, and whose unsullied integrity, claimed for him and obtained for so many years the respect and esteem of the House. I confess, however, that I make my appeal with some confidence, because I must acknowledge with gratitude, that whenever, upon former occasions, it has been my lot to address myself to the House, I have always experienced the kindest and most encouraging reception. The best return that I can make for the attention which I may now receive, is by being as brief and intelligible as possible. Brevity is always desirable in opening any large and varied question to the House; and there is no subject upon which a minister is more bound to be clear, explicit, and intelligi-
 * 195 
 
 It appears, from that return, that the total revenue amounted to 54,414,650 
 The total expenditure to 49,499,130 
 The surplus to £.4,915,520 l. l., l. l., 196 
 
 Total charge of funded unredeemed debt, including interest, long annuities, and management £.28,124,786 
 Other charges on the consolidated fund, such as civil-list, pensions by act of parliament, and various items of that description 2,050,000 
 Annuity to trustees for half-pay and pensions 2,800,000 
 Army 7,362,000 
 Navy 5,442,000 
 Ordnance 1,380,000 
 Miscellaneous 1,494,000 
 Interest of exchequer bills 1,200,000 
 £.49,852,786 
 The result, then, is this, that taking the revenue at 57,000,000 
 The expenditure at 49,852,786 
 The surplus will be £.7,147,214 l., 197 l., l. l., 198 l., l. l. l., l. l: l.: l. 199 l. l.; l. l., l., l.; l.: l., l., l. l. 
 
 Customs 10,500,000 
 Excise 26,000,000 
 Stamps 6,600,000 
 Post-office 1,400,000 
 Assessed taxes 5,900,000 
 Land tax 1,200,000 
 Miscellaneous 600,000 
 £.52,200,000 200 "The wide, the unbounded prospect lies before me," "Shadows, clouds, and darkness rest upon it." 201 202 203 
 
 For 1818 £.1,327,621 
 1819 1,231,991 
 1820 1,097,773 
 1821 1,069,282 l. primâ facie 204 
 
 Army £.7,362,000 
 Navy 5,442,000 
 Ordnance 1,380,000 
 Miscellaneous 1,494,000 205 ipse dixit animus l.; l. 
 
 As compared with 1821 it is £.1,957,000 
 1820 2,971,000 
 1819 2,156,000 
 1818 2,449,000 
 With the estimate of the Committee of Finance of 1817 1,335,000 l., l. 206 207 ex officio, 208 per se 209 l. s. l., l. s. l. 210 s. l.; 
 
 On male servants £.159,500 
 Clerks and shopmen of traders 98,050 
 Four-wheeled carriages 145,000 
 Two-wheeled carriages 98,000 
 High taxed carts 17,650 
 Horses for riding or drawing 324,000 
 Ponies under thirteen hands high, the high duty 9,100 
 Bailiffs' horses 1,050 
 Butchers' horses 4,400 
 Horses and mules, lower duty in agriculture and trade jointly, and trade wholly 72,500 211 l.; l. l.; 212 213
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, expressed his satisfaction, that 50 per cent of the window tax was to be reduced. It was a most grievous and unequal tax; because a house in the most obscure part of the country, where it was of little or no value, was rated as highly to this tax, as one in the fashionable streets of the metropolis. It was, therefore, by no means an  ad valorem 234
 Sir J. Osborn  said, that the estimate for the service of the navy differed somewhat from that voted last year. The number of seamen proposed this year amounted 25,000 men, instead of 21,000, the disturbed state of South America, the West Indies, and the Mediterranean having rendered the addition of 4,000 men necessary. There was also a small increase in the rate of wages, amounting to 6 d. l. s.
 Mr. Hume  commenced by observing, that he had never heard a statement from ministers with more pleasure than he had heard that of the right hon. gentleman opposite. Never had he heard in that House a statement more clear or more satisfactory from any chancellor of the exchequer. He could not, however, help expressing his regret, at hearing it stated, in answer to what had been said by the hon. member for Portarlington, that the sinking fund was, as it was now constituted, calculated to support public credit. He contended, that the present sinking fund only tended to encourage extravagance; by placing at the disposal of ministers, a sum of money which it was likely, if not certain, they would apply to any thing but its proper use. To prove the inefficacy of the sinking fund, he had only to state, that the late chancellor of the exchequer had, in one year, taken 8,000,000 l. l. 225 l., 226
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, that although he was connected with the shipping interest of the country, and well knew that it was labouring under considerable embarrassment, he felt that he should ill discharge his duty to his country, by giving his consent to that repeal of the duties upon shipping to which the hon. member had alluded. The repeal of those duties which pressed only on one particular class would afford nothing more than a partial relief; whilst the repeal of the taxes, which had been proposed by the chancellor of the exchequer, would afford relief at once to the mercantile, the manufacturing, and the agricultural part of the community. He trusted, however, that if the duties upon shipping should be allowed to remain in full force, the collection of them would be attended with as little expense as possible. It appeared to him, that 21 per cent was much too high a sum to be expended for such a purpose.
 Sir H. Parnell  was anxious to say how
 227 228 229
 Sir R. Wilson  rose merely to make one observation. The chancellor of the exchequer had stated, that the reduction of taxation was the best mode of relief. He had also dwelt with satisfaction upon the tranquillity of the country. The right hon. gentleman, and those who acted with him, must feel, that to insure that tranquillity, and to promote the permanent prosperity of the state, it was necessary to bind the people to the government, and that that was only to be done by showing a regard for their liberties. He trusted, therefore, that ministers would take an early opportunity of repealing the laws called the Six Acts, and restoring to Englishmen the ancient free and constitutional laws of England.
 Lord Milton  said, that it was so long since he had attended the House, that he hardly knew by whom he was supported, or to whom he was opposed. He had had two surprises that evening—the one, the speech of his hon. friend who had just sat down, and which he strongly deprecated; the other, and by far the more agreeable surprise, was the speech of the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer. And here he could not let the opportunity pass, without offering the tribute of his praise to that right hon. gentleman, for the feelings which seemed to animate, and the spirit of enlarged policy which supported, the propositions he had that night made to the House. He contrasted with much gratification the policy by which ministers were now governed, with that on which they had formerly acted. He could not help feeling that the country had a new government—a government new in all its feelings, and in all its views on great public questions.—The right hon. gentleman, who had that night received and deserved so much praise, had advanced propositions which were sound and self-evident, but which had been denied last session by some of the most influential members of that House. The right hon. gentleman had truly said, that the diminution of taxation was the best, the only, relief for the pressing distress of the people Ministers seemed at length awake to questions over which last session they had slept. Having said so much with regard to the speech of the right hon. gentleman, he was obliged, however, to say, that he was disappointed as to the results to which the right hon. gentleman had led the House. In his opinion, the measure of relief proposed, was less than the country had a right to expect; and considerably less than what was necessary to give efficient relief. He would ask the country gentlemen who heard him, particularly those who represented Norfolk, Suffolk, Sussex, and some of the southern counties,
 232
 Mr. Plunkett  said, it was, he presumed, the intention of the hon. member to follow up the motion for the production of those papers with some ulterior proceeding, with respect to what had taken place in the court of King's-bench, Ireland, and the transactions that had occurred there. As the present motion was merely for the production of papers, it was not his intention to invite any debate on the subject which the hon. member meant to bring before the House. He begged leave to express his extreme satisfaction on finding it at length announced, that the question would be specifically brought forward. He was glad that it was in the hands of the hon. gentleman, who would discharge his duty to the House and the country, on this, as he did on all occasions, with perfect propriety. But he could not avoid expressing some degree of surprise, that it had devolved on him to bring the question forward; because, when, on a former occasion, an inquiry was made relative to the catholic question, a right hon. baronet was so eager to give an opinion on this case, which had nothing to do with the question which had been asked, that he could not help observing, that these proceedings were an improper course of proceeding. When that right hon. baronet, who was a member of the legal profession, and who at one period had tilled the office which he (Mr. P.) now held, felt it necessary to make this charge, that the proceedings were improper, he did expect that the right hon. baronet would have come forward himself in a manly manner, and abided by the charge he had thought fit to make. He was ready to meet the
 245
 Mr. Hobhouse  begged to second the prayer of the petition, and at the same time to congratulate the House and the country upon the first step which had been taken, by rescinding the orders in council, to place England in a proper light in the eyes of Europe. It was a step absolutely necessary for the welfare of this country, and for the independence of the nations of the continent. For his own part, be thought, that nothing short of a war would satisfy the present infatuated government of France. He was convinced of the absolute necessity of repealing the Foreign Enlistment bill, the Alien bill, and all those other measures which had tended to connect this country with that impious league which, under the name of the Holy Alliance, had been formed against the happiness of mankind. When the Foreign Enlistment bill was pro-
 240 241
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had done ministers the honour to compliment them upon their conduct; and, among the good qualities which he had attributed to them, he had praised them for their prudence. He felt strongly, that that prudence forbad, at the present moment, any discussion on the subject, and he rose chiefly for the purpose of repressing any further discussion on a point which had originated accidentally. He should, however, act unfairly to that government of which he was so recent a member, if he did not reject any praise which was bestowed upon it, at the expense of those by whom it had formerly been composed. He was compelled in mere justice to say, that upon his entering the office which he had the honour to fill, he found the principles on which the government were acting, reduced into writing; and this state paper formed what he might be allowed to call the political creed of the ministers. Upon the execution of the principles there laid down, and upon that alone, was founded any claim he might have to credit from the House. With respect to the other topics which had been brought before the House, he felt he ought not to allow himself to be led into any discussion relating to them. Besides the general reasons which forbad any further debate while the smallest hope remained of compassing that pacific result in which the interests of Europe were so deeply concerned, there were some material circumstances which, at the present moment, made such debate particularly inexpedient. Before he sat down, he felt compelled to say that, in pursuing that policy for which the hon. gentleman had given them credit, his majesty's ministers had been aided by the forbearance—he would not say the unexpected forbearance—of the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  suggested, whether it would not be prudent, en every account, not to press the discussion farther. The proposition was, that certain documents should be laid on the table. No objection was made to the production of those documents. The right hon. baronet had, however, taken the present opportunity to state, that the acts of the attorney-general of Ireland, if not strictly illegal, were highly unconstitutional. Now, he did not think it was placing the House in a fair situation, to call on them, thus prematurely, to discuss a question which was of such vital importance to the learned gentleman, to the government of which he formed a part, and to the interests of the country at large.
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  asked, as the parties were at issue, whether it was absolutely necessary, with regard to this question, to wait for the production of these papers? If it was not necessary, and if, in consequence of recent proceedings, the peace and tranquillity of the country had been disturbed, an expression of the opinion of that House ought to be sent forth as soon
 246 ex officio
 Mr. Brownlow  said, that before he moved for these documents, he had been given to understand, that there was not the slightest objection to granting them. He would submit a motion to the House on the subject, on the earliest possible day after the recess.
 Mr. Brownlow  said, he intended to submit his motion, previous to the discussion on the catholic question.
 Mr. Brownlow  rose to move for a series of
 244 Ex-officio
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had no objection whatever to the production of the information called for. With respect to certain individuals to whom the hon. gentleman had alluded on a former night, he wished, in justice to the parties, to give some explanation. The hon. gentleman, when speaking of major Collis, had said, that the major was not entitled on account of infirmities (the reason assigned) to the allowance which he received; and he gave three reasons for that opinion: the first was, that the major was not above 40 years of age; the second, that he had served but a limited period in the yeomanry; and the third, that that officer, so far from being infirm, was in good bodily health. These facts were
 248
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the explanation, in either way, was inaccurate. Major Bridgeman had joined the British service in South Carolina, so far back as the year 1780: and had served ten years as a brigade-major in the Irish yeomanry; but, even after this length of service, there was the most positive certification of infirmities, from the high authority of Dr. Rennie, of Dublin. Major Bridgeman had fallen from his horse in a fit of apoplexy, while in the discharge of his military duty; and had many years-suffered from a constitutional determination of blood to his head, which had seriously affected his health, and rendered his retirement necessary.
 Mr. Abercromby  doubted the propriety of the mode which the hon. member intended to take. If the hon. member meant to found on these papers a vote of censure on the Irish attorney-general, he (Mr. A.) should be placed in a very great difficulty. He felt that there was not any defect or illegality in the exercise of this power. It was not asserted, that the attorney-general had done what he was not legally entitled to do; but that he had lent himself to an unconstitutional proceeding. If that were the case, it involved an inquiry into the whole of the proceedings that had taken place; and, towards such an inquiry as that, the hon. member had made no advance whatever;
 247
 Mr. Croker  said, it seemed to him, that on a question of so much importance, papers should not be moved for on the sudden, and granted as a matter of course. No person could deny the right of that House to interfere with a legal proceeding, when a sufficient ground was laid; but he thought it would have been more consonant with the practice of parliament, and the law and constitution of the country, if the hon. member had given notice of motion. He strongly deprecated any interference,  per saltum,
 Mr. Hume  said, that the case which the right hon. gentleman had just stated, was not that which he had mentioned on a former evening. His statement was, that major Collis had been pensioned after ten years' service, and that the Irish lawyers might as well call the major a woman, as a person entitled to the pension, according to the military regulations recognized by the act of parliament. It was not, however, of major Collis, but of major Bridgeman that he had spoken, as being a person, who, though retired "through infirmities," was as hale and as hearty as himself was, and only 45 years of age.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for returns of the names of all persons in the yeomanry service in Ireland, who received pensions in the nature of reward or retired allowances, the length of their respective services, the dates of appointments, &c. It appeared, he said, from parliamentary papers, that 1,278 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  rose to notice one or two circumstances. The first was, the prac-
 242 243
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that with respect to certain promotions to which the hon. gentleman had alluded, it was unnecessary for him to enter into any explanation, as the hon. member intended to bring the subject under the consideration of the House by a specific motion. When the hon. member made that motion, the admiralty would be prepared to show, that they were perfectly justified in the course they had taken. Those promotions were made from persons belonging to the class of midshipmen, on those stations. If they were not so made, the vessels on foreign stations would soon be without officers. With respect to the question of the marines, if the hon. gentleman showed a fair parliamentary ground for requiring the information to which he had alluded, proper attention would be paid to it; but till he so introduced the question, it was impossible that a general answer could be given to it. The hon. gentleman observed, that alterations had been made in the navy estimates, by which the expense of wear and tear, &c. had been reduced, but that some new items were inserted in those estimates. The House, however, would find, that though the present estimate exceeded by 4,000 men the estimate of last year, yet there was a reduction on the former, as compared with the latter, of 220,000 l.
 Sir J. Stewart  said, he had not pledged himself to make any direct charge on the occasion alluded to. He felt himself justified in offering the remark which had occasioned the observations of the learned gentleman, because the state of Ireland had been referred to at the time; and because he was convinced, that the late proceedings had not produced a good effect. He would say, in the face of that House and of the world, that those proceedings, if not absolutely illegal, were certainly unconstitutional. This he felt himself compelled to state, though he entertained the most friendly regard for the learned gentleman. He admitted the great talents and the tried worth of the learned gentleman; but no private consideration should induce him to shrink from what he conceived to be his duty.
 Sir R. Wilson,  in rising to present a petition from the inhabitants of the parish of St. Saviour's, Southwark, begged to state to the House, that he had no concern whatever in originating the petition. It was a spontaneous act of men, who had never been backward to complain of whatever appeared to them to be injurious to national honour or to European liberty. They were not men of words, but would follow up what they said by actions. The petition prayed, that the Foreign Enlistment bill might be repealed. He would not enlarge upon the prayer of the petition. But he could not avoid calling the attention of the House to the degree to which that new infringement of international law had been stigmatised, at the time when it was introduced. It had been so, not only by the mass of the people, but by those brave defenders of their country, who were ever ready to support the cause of freedom, and the best interests of man. He could not help congratulating the House and the country upon the favourable aspect of the policy of this country, and be hoped that those manly and liberal professions would be amply fulfilled. At the present most important juncture, it would require both caution and firmness on the part of this country; and he would add that, if the obnoxious measure were not repealed, it would counteract, in no small degree, those liberal principles.
 Mr. Maberly  could see no reason why the House should not have regular accounts of the income and expenditure of the colonies, in the same way as they had returns of every other part of the expenditure of the empire.
 Mr. Bright  said, it was, in his opinion, high time to take into consideration the state of the colonies, for the purpose of forming wise and wholesome constitutions for them, or, in default of so doing, to make application to the throne that such charters should be granted to them as were suited to their peculiar interests and habits. Canada had been for a long time in the same state as some of the colonies which had that night been mentioned, until, at length, hasty and inefficient charters were drawn up. This, he hoped, would be avoided with respect to the new colonies; and that, in legislating for them, due regard would be had to their immediate wants and their original habits. The hon. mover had complained, that the Dutch law still prevailed at the Cape of Good Hope, and he had expressed his regret, that the British constitution had not been extended to that colony. But, was the British constitution fit for every soil? Were its principles in unison with the long-established manners and customs of every people? Could the laws of one country be transplanted to another, to the advantage of a people who had been accustomed to a very different system? Certainly not. The best system of law was that which agreed best with the habits and manners of a people; and therefore it was impossible to transplant an entire code of laws from one part of the world to another, so as to produce a beneficial effect. In forming laws, attention should be paid to the circumstances, feelings, wants, and habits of a community; and it was by pursuing that plan alone, that the Cape of Good Hope, or any other colony, could be effectively governed. Some of the doctrines laid down by the hon. member were at variance with the sound maxims of our forefathers; and the broaching such doctrines in that House, if they were suffered to pass unnoticed, would produce the most mischievous
 254
 Mr. Hume  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the situation of the colonies belonging to Great Britain, and the expense of their government. He understood that the opposition which had been offered to his motion for returns connected with this subject had been withdrawn, and that ministers had agreed to grant them, as far as was practicable. After strong re-
 249 
 
 £. s. d. 
 Canada 354,721 12 9 
 Nova Scotia and New Brunswick 125,353 5 11 
 Newfoundland 9,921 7  2 
 Bermuda 28,269 13 10 
 Bahama Islands 7,904 18  0 
 Windward and Leeward Island and Colonies 346,108 9 0 
 Jamaica 115,691 9 0 
 Cape of Good Hope 177,043 13  0 
 Mauritius 57,274 13 1 
 Mediterranean 201,247 4  3 
 Gibraltar 140,092 8  4 
 Sierra Leone and Gambia 62,298 4 1 
 Heligoland 6,371 2 6 
 1,629,298 1 6 
 The revenue collected in these colonies amounted to 1,926,850 0  0 
 Making the total expense £.3,556,148 1 6 
 
 Revenue. Expenditure. 
 Ceylon, 1817 £.378,812 £.450,816 
 Mauritius, 1817 164,441 251,186 
 Malta and Gozo, 1818. 108,336 105,761 
 Cape of Good Hope, 1819 116,115 119,087 250 251 l. l. l. 252
 Mr. Hume  consented to withdraw his motion, with the understanding, that the information required should be granted as soon as possible.
 Mr. Wilmot  rose, not with any intention of opposing the motion, but for the purpose of giving an explanation on one or two points. Government had pledged themselves in the course of last session, to give the fullest information with reference to the expense of the colonies. That information was to be obtained through the agency of commissioners, whose reports would be laid before the House. It was intended by his majesty's government to lay on the table, with reference to the year 1824, an account of the revenue raised in those colonies, and the manner in which it had been appropriated. With respect to the sum expended by Great Britain in aid of the colonies, when the sum raised on the spot was not sufficient to meet the necessary charges, the hon. gentleman could see the amount in the estimates that were annually produced. He must, however, perceive, that it would be impossible to give him the information which he required, with respect to the exact portion of military force that it would be necessary to keep in each of the colonies every year. Government could not state the precise number of troops that would be requisite in every year. In fact, even if it could be ascertained, it would not be safe nor prudent to make the disclosure. Again, to say that every colony should be bound to answer for its military expenditure, and that a fixed number of troops should be maintained, would be to take out of the hands of government the discretion which it ought to possess, with respect to the disposal of the military force of the empire. There were many considerations, both of economy and policy, which forbad the adoption of such a principle. The subject could not be considered on such narrow grounds as those which had been stated by the hon.
 253
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that so far as it was possible, regular returns should be laid before the House. It was distinctly imposed on governors of colonies, as a duty, to semi over such returns.
 Captain Maberly , as one of the small minority who had held up their hands against the petition, wished to say a few words. He was very far from thinking any general adjustment of contracts necessary. The instances of real suffering from the change of the currency were comparatively few; while the mischief of any interference with contracts would be incalculable.
 Lord Folkestone  said, he had supposed the hon. member to have been arguing with reference to Mr. Peel's bill; but now he discovered, that his argument rested on a measure which existed only in his own imagination.
 Mr. Whitmore  rose, pursuant to notice, to bring under the consideration of the House, the Laws relating to the trade in Corn. He would, in the outset, touch upon the objections which he understood were made to his introduction of the subject. In the first instance, it was objected, that the discussion could only tend, from the want of practical result, to increase the despondency already so extensively felt. He differed entirely from those who started the objection. Though there should be no practical result, yet he was convinced that a rational discussion would have a considerable effect in dispelling alarm, and when he felt that the law was the cause of the distress experienced, and the very root of the evil, he could not feel that he did his duty if he neglected to introduce the subject to the consideration of parliament. With reference to any objection as to the time of discussion, he would say, that if he had taken a right view of the question, no time could be unpropitious for its consideration; and he should think the present time well adapted to that discussion; for, in the considera-
 265 266 267 268 269 "—Not far removed the date, When commerce proudly flourish'd through the state: At her command the palace learn'd to rise, Again the long-fall'n columns sought the skies: The canvas glow'd beyond e'en Nature warm; The pregnant quarry teem'd with human form; Till, more unsteady than the southern gale, Commerce on other shores display'd her sail; While nought remain'd of all that riches gave, But towns unmann'd, and lords without a slave: And late the nation found, with fruitless skill, Its former strength was but plethoric ill." s. s. s. s. s. s.
 Lord Folkestone , referring to the question of his hon. friend, whether, if the standard had been increased even to the proportion of being doubled, the country would, under such circumstances, witness the phenomena of an increasing revenue and a thriving trade—contended, that there existed no similarity in the two cases. He should first beg leave to doubt one of the data of his hon. friend; namely, the existence of a thriving trade. When, a few nights past, one of the representatives for London, presented the petition of the city, he had laid considerable stress on the stagnation in trade that existed. Another hon. member, connected with commerce, the very night of the financial discussion, adverted particularly to the distresses of a very important branch of our commercial relations—the shipping interest. These facts were not easily reconcileable with a thriving trade. With respect to the suggestion he had made, in 1819, of increasing the standard to 4 l. s. 259
 Mr. Wodehouse  expressed his disinclination to prolong the discussion, but he could not allow the opportunity to pass, without submitting to the consideration of the House, and particularly to the hon. gentleman who disputed the effects of the alteration of the currency, the high and acknowledged authority of the late Mr. Henry Thornton, on that memorable discussion upon the report of the bullion committee, on the 6th of May, 1811:—To change the standard when the paper has been long depreciated, is only to establish and perpetuate a currency of that value to which we already are accustomed, and may also be made the means of precluding further depression. The very argument of justice, after a certain time, passes over to the side of deterioration. If we have been used to a depreciated paper for only two or three years, justice is on the side of returning to the antecedent standard; but if eight, ten, or even fifteen or twenty years, have passed since the paper fell, then it may be deemed unfair to restore the ancient value of the circulating medium; for bargains will have been made, and loans supplied, under an expectation of the continuance of the existing depreciation."
 Mr. Grey Bennet  agreed, that the question of the currency, with reference to the existing agricultural distress, ought to be brought forward specifically in that House. His hon. friend, the member for Essex, would, before this, have submitted his motion on that important subject, if the delicate state of his health had not prevented him. He would not now go into that question; but he could not avoid expressing his astonishment, when he heard his hon. friend asserting, that he did not consider the distress which weighed heavily on the agriculturists, to have been, in any great degree, produced by the change in the currency. Was it possible, when the currency was raised from a depreciation of 40 or 50 per cent, and placed at par, that such a change could take place, without having a considerable effect on the property of the country? Transactions which had been carried on in one currency, were now to be paid in another—debts which had been contracted under a depreciated currency, were now to be paid in gold; and yet, to his utter astonishment, his hon. friend argued, that such a transition had produced no ill effect. He, however, was prepared to show, that it had operated a. depreciation of not less than 40 per cent. But, supposing it to be only 10 per cent, how could his hon. friend give his assent to a measure which imposed a tax of 10-per cent on every debtor; which added 10 per cent to the property of every creditor; which raised the value of every placeman's salary 10 per cent; which gave an addition of 10 per cent to that large class of persons who were creditors of the state, from the king on the throne to the lowest
 261 l. s. s. 262
 Mr. Bolett , of Wilts, said, he concurred in thinking that it would be better for the country to continue the law in question, as it at present existed, than to disturb it, by acceding to the motion. Part of the principle of that law was to give a bounty on the exportation, as well as to lay a duty on the importation, of corn. In this, also, he concurred; and, indeed, that great authority, Adam Smith, had laid it down as a maxim, "that any country which depended on another for any portion of its food, or actual subsistence, could be said to have no other than an ephemeral existence;" and Mr. Malthus had advanced the same position, in almost the same words. He would now take the liberty of submitting the result of some very careful calculations which he had made in relation to the subject before the House. In the first place, there had been a great cessation, or reduction of cultivation, since 1815. The income on taxes raised on the land in that year was fixed at 43,000,000 l. l. 274 s. s. s. l. l. l. l. s. 275 s. s. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, he gave the hon. member for Bridgenorth credit for the motives which had induced him to bring
 276 s. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. d. 277 s. s. s.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that if he had not been so pointedly alluded to, he should not have interposed to prevent the conclusion of the debate, which the House seemed anxious to arrive at. He had Dever complained of any remarks upon the report of 1821, or of any remarks upon what he himself had said; but he had deemed it improper, and contrary to usage, that a report which should be deemed the opinion of the committee collectively, had been ascribed to himself, an individual member of it. Many alterations had, indeed, been made in that report; not only not by him, but in opposition to his opinion. He would not attempt to follow the very desultory discussion which had taken place since the speech of the hon. mover. It was impossible for him to enter into all the details respecting the different modes of farming in use, the relative merits and demerits of land, and the remission of taxation. He would, however, express his satisfaction at the fact, that the country could, consistently with public credit, make a considerable remission of the burdens which weighed upon the people. The hon. member for Cumberland, when he attempted to show the relief that would be afforded to agriculture by the remission of two particular taxes, was not borne out by his own calculations. The hon. mem-
 278 s. d. s. l. 279 s. 280
 Mr. Attwood  remarked on some of the arguments which had been adduced by the hon. member for Bridgenorth, and by the right honourable President of the Board of Trade. The former, he said, had rested his motion mainly on the erroneous and frequently refuted opinion, that the great fluctuations in the prices of grain, which had taken place within the last thirty years, and which had produced so much evil, had been principally occasioned by the state of the corn laws, and by the difficulties and expense which had, during the war, been opposed to the importation of foreign grain. His views on this head he had explained, by stating a suppositious case, referring to another country, and by asking what the state of
 283 s. s. 284 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 285 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 286 287 s. s. s.
 Colonel Wood  was of opinion, that nothing could unsettle the mind of the country more than the revival of a measure like the present, after the repeated discussion which the subject had undergone last session.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  hoped the House would not adopt the proposition then before it, as it did not go far enough. He called upon ministers to give the agriculturists some support on this question, which they could not give more effectually than by putting a decided negative on the present motion.
 Mr. Whitmore  said, that after the declaration he had made, he would not press his motion upon the House; but if any hon. member should insist upon a division, he should certainly give his vote, as if he had taken the division upon it himself.
 Mr. S. Wortley  thought that the proposed bill did not go far enough. He was convinced that there was no safety for the agriculturist, unless the ports were kept constantly open, with a regulating duty. Though he would not pledge himself to support all the details of the present bill when introduced, he would
 288
 Mr. Ricardo  admitted, that the noble lord was correct, in stating that he (Mr. R.) had on one occasion computed the depreciation at 5 per cent, and that he now found it to be 10 per cent; still, he was not in error. His first computation referred to a payment in bullion; and it would have been correct if the Bank had acted precisely in the spirit of that bill but, instead of doing so, they had got together a large quantity of gold, which they coined into sovereigns, and then they came down to the House to procure an act, enabling them to get rid of those sovereigns. If the measure of which he approved had been acted on, the depreciation would have been but 5 per cent; because it would have been measured by the price of gold.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the right hon. gentleman, in all the arguments which he had brought forward for postponing the consideration of the corn laws, had in reality given a reason for proceeding at once to amend them. What was the danger which his hon. friend, who brought forward the present motion, apprehended? It was the danger of those very high prices, to the recurrence of which the right hon. gentleman looked forward, as the conjuncture when the corn laws might be amended. He apprehended the danger of capital being again drawn, by the temptation of high prices, to the land (and the right hon. gentleman agreed that the danger existed)—that there would again be a succession of low prices, and another loss of capital. This evil it was the object of the present proposition to prevent; yet the right hon. gentleman would wait till the evil came upon them, before he would provide the remedy. As to the motion of his hon. friend, he would not oppose it; because he should be glad
 281 s. s. s. s. 282 s.
 Mr. Ricardo  would not have risen upon this occasion, if the hon. gentleman had not declared, that he wished some amicable arrangement could be made by which that part of the country which was now profiting on account of the loss of the others, might be made to bear its share in the burdens. He complained that the words which had been used at that and at other public meetings, had been vague as to the advantage of the public creditor. For his, part, he was at a loss to see what advantage the fundholder had gained. The argument appeared to him to be made use of rather upon the principle, that by giving your adversary's argument a bad name, you give your own a good one. Upon such grounds it was contended that the stockholder had met with nothing but gain; but those who had attended to the question, were of a different opinion. If only that which the fundholder was gaining now upon the sums which he had lent after the depreciation, was to be taken into the account, then there would no doubt be a balance in his favour; but, this view of the question would be most unfair. It would be stating the profit on the one side, without the corresponding loss on the other. If both of these were to be taken into the account, it would be found that the stockholder had had no
 256 l. l. l. l. 257 l. s. 258
 Mr. Sumner  observed, that the meeting
 260
 Mr. Curwen  rose to condemn the unwise course which the hon. member had taken, in the introduction of this question. He should not feel that he was doing justice to the memory of a late statesman (the marquis of Londonderry), if he did not declare his conviction, that in the latter period of his life, that individual had done all that he could do, for the protection of agriculture. He (Mr. C.) did not wish for great protecting prices, but he wished to see every acre of land that could be made available, under cultivation. They had been told that remission of taxation would effect no relief to the agricultural interest; but, from the
 270 l. l. 271 272 s. d. d. l. s. 273
 Mr. Monck  said, that if, as was asserted, the old restictrion act committed a great injustice on the public creditor, it was no less true, that a great injustice was now inflicted on the public debtor. Mr. Mushett's tables, it should be observed, only went down to near the present period; but, while the injustice to the creditor only operated at the utmost for about twenty years, that to the debtor would, if persisted in now, affect him in perpetuity. Those who were opposed to his opinion, considered the question as only between the creditor and debtor; but there was another class distinct from both, whose interests were most seriously affected. He meant heirs at law, mortgagers, and others who made contracts under very different circumstances; and who, if the House did not interfere, must be stripped of their property, and consigned to absolute ruin. A very serious fallacy existed relative to the currency up to 1819, namely, that there was no difference between the price and the value of gold; but the fact was, that when the price was depreciated not more than 4 per cent, the value of the gold itself was depreciated 40 per cent. When the bill passed, the price was fixed at 3 l. s. d. chronicon pretiosum s. d. s. d. 264
 Mr. Monck  declared his intention of voting in favour of the present motion, because he agreed with almost all the principles which the hon. mover had stated to the House. The only mode of relief which he thought feasible was to diminish the expense of growing corn; and that could only be done by diminishing the pressure of taxation.
 Mr. Hume  declared his intention of supporting the motion, and of taking the sense of the House upon it.
 Mr. Leycester  said, he was not for high, but for low prices; but, before a reduction of prices could be made, the cost of production must be diminished; and that diminution could not take place, without a great diminution of taxation.
 Mr. Denison , in presenting the petition of the freeholders of Surrey, in county meeting assembled, commented upon the great respectability of the meeting, and the degree of unanimity which had marked its proceedings. The petition complained of the weight of taxes and of it tithes; of the expensiveness of government in all its departments—its diplomacies, its armies, its colonies, and in the collection of its revenue. It recommended reform in parliament, general retrenchment, repeal of the malt-tax, and of the house and window-tax—a measure which he was glad to see already partly carried into execution. There was one point, however, which the petition did not touch, but upon which it might with great propriety have dwelt, and that was upon the tampering with the currency of the country, first in 1797, and again in 1819. He was of opinion, that those changes of currency had produced more mischief to the
 255
 Mr. Peel  said, he did not rise to discuss the question of the currency, for he deprecated all incidental debate upon the subject, more especially as a notice of motion had been given, which would bring the whole question under the consideration of the House; but, if he remained altogether silent, he might be supposed to acquiesce in statements, the validity of which he could never admit. How was it possible to suppose that, after the long derangement which had taken place in the currency, its value could be restored by the bill of 1819, without partial pressure and inconvenience? It was no solid objection to this measure, that such pressure was proved to exist. It was a consequence that could not he avoided. Before 1819, as far as the fundholder was concerned, a great part of the debt was contracted in a depreciated currency; but it should not be forgotten, that there was a distinct enactment to the effect, that on the arrival of peace the currency should be restored. Different views of policy might be fairly entertained at different periods; but surely at all times, and at all periods, equity and justice were the same. What was just in 1811, was just in 1819, even though the pressure in the latter year were greater than in the former. What was the resolution proposed to the House in 1811, by Mr. Horner? why, that payment in cash should be renewed by the Bank, not within six months after the ratification of a definitive treaty of peace, but within two years from that present time. When it was found necessary to enact, that the payment of promissory notes in cash should be suspended, it was not in contemplation of those who passed the act, that any change should take place in the value of promissory notes; and that was what the House declared in its resolution of 1811. At the present period, then, would it be just, to make any deduction from what we were bound to pay the public creditor, on account of a change of value? Such was not the intention of parliament when it contemplated a return to cash payments on the event of peace. For himself, he maintained every opinion on the subject
 263
 Mr. Price  presented a petition, signed by 700 landowners of the county of Hereford, complaining of Agricultural Distress, and praying for relief. This petition was, he said, no other than the Norfolk petition, transplanted to the county of Hereford. He regretted that such doctrines as had been advanced in that petition had re-
 289
 Lord Folkestone  considered it rather rash conduct in a county member, to pronounce such an unqualified judgment on the opinions of his constituents. The petition was signed by 700 respectable freeholders of the county. The very fact of their having affixed their signatures to the petition was a striking proof of their having deliberated on its allegations. The petition of the county of Norfolk and the present petition also had been much censured; but, as yet, he had not heard a single word in refutation of the arguments contained in either.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, whatever might be the expediency of the motion of the noble lord, he was sure that he had neither the right nor the disposition to impute to him, that he brought it forward with any improper view, or that he had urged it with any improper feeling. For himself, looking to the way in which the noble lord had been pleased to allude to Trim, with reference to the part he had taken in this transaction, he had nothing to complain of; neither did he complain, that the question was now agitated; for he willingly admitted, that the noble lord might be of opinion, that there was something in it worthy of the serious consideration of parliament; but he meant to oppose the production of these papers, on the plain parliamentary principle, that the production of papers, for no necessary purpose, or with no definite view, was always inexpedient; that those who moved for documents were bound to show the reason for their production; and not that those who opposed the proposition, were called on to adduce arguments for their non-production. In following the noble lord, he would endeavour to put out of his way, any thing like individual allusion, by stating this case on the general principle, on which all such individual cases must stand. He presumed, that it was one of the first and most recognized principles of the law of nations, that an individual who entered voluntarily into a foreign country, at the same time entered into a temporary and qualified allegiance to the laws of that country; that he confined himself to their observance; that he submitted to their operation; and that,
 294 295 malum in se, malum prohibitum 296 297
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he should ever uphold the principle, that our government was bound to afford aid and protection to British subjects in foreign countries. In him it would be particularly ungrateful to say any thing against France or her government: from the one he had received the utmost hospitality, by the other he had been treated with the greatest kindness; and it was in that nation that he had formed some of the most agreeable and binding connexions which he had the happiness to boast of. Thus situated, he should be extremely sorry indeed if he could either be guilty himself, or support others who were guilty of plotting and intriguing against the government of a country, for which he had so sincere a respect and love: but the case before the House was that of an innocent and most persecuted individual, and he differed from the right hon. secretary in the inference which he would seem to draw, from the fact, that that individual had been tried by the French government for the minor offence only. Mr. Bowring had been persecuted by them. And why? Apparently, because he lived with some of the most enlightened, intelligent, and patriotic men in France. Really he was tempted to think that Mr. Bowring had been arrested by the government in question, in the hope that something would be discovered among his papers that might tend to implicate, not so much Mr. Bowring himself, as some of those distinguished characters with whom he had been acquainted. With respect to his own papers, all that was found in them was a mere private opinion, intended to be privately communicated, upon the character of the king of France. Why, then, the right hon. gentleman seemed to infer, that Mr. Bowring had been carried and confined  au secret, 300 au secret, au secret, lettres de cachel 301
 Lord A. Hamilton  observed, that when he found it admitted, that an Englishman had been wrongfully arrested, imprisoned, and persecuted, and had been denied justice or redress, he could feel no regret at having brought his case under the notice of that House.
 Lord A. Hamilton  rose to call the attention of the House to a case of extreme injustice and oppression which had been committed on the person of an Englishman in a foreign land. When the House should learn, that the person upon whom this wrong had been done was under the protection of this government, and that he was duly furnished with passports, he was sure that gentlemen would at least listen with interest to the statement he had to make. He did not stand there to arraign the government of any country; but he would say, that under the sanction of that of France, injustice, oppression, and tyranny had been exercised upon a British subject. Although he was prepared to admit, that all which had been done by the government of England had been rightly done, still he could not agree, that they might not have done something more. He would state what Mr. Bowring had suffered, the means he had taken to obtain redress, what redress he had Obtained, and he thought the
 290 au secret, 291 292 293
 Mr. Canning  said, he should be exceedingly sorry to be misunderstood. He had never stated that Mr. Bowring had been relieved from the larger offence by the mercy of the French government. He could never have stated that; because it would have been to imply what he most cautiously guarded against, namely, that Mr. Bowring was guilty of that offence. Now, he was bound, to that gentleman in common with all other accused persons, to believe him innocent until he was proved to be guilty, and certainly he was by no means disposed to adhere to that principle less in the case of Mr. Bowring than in any other one.
 Mr. Wallace  bore testimony to the honourable character of the worthy baronet in question, and expressed his conviction, that there was not the slightest ground for any imputation upon it.
 Mr. Manning,  on moving for a Return of the Balances in the hands of the Trustees of Ramsgate Harbour, said, he wished to contradict a very unfounded report which had gone forth, that an hon. baronet (sir W. Curtis) held balances to a large amount in his hands. It was not true that his hon. friend had acted as treasurer; and he was so far from ever having held any of the money of the trustees in his hands, that he had himself advanced a considerable sum towards the expenses of the harbour.
 Sir R. Wilson  said, he believed the meanest native of any other country would not have been treated as Mr. Bowring, an English merchant, a gentleman of most amiable manners and excellent attainments, had been treated by the French
 298 lettres de cuchet; au secret? 299
 Mr. Alderman Wood  regretted that the measure of the learned gentleman differed from that which he had proposed last year.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the reduction of taxation which had already been proposed, would be of considerable advantage to the poorer classes. The measure which he had to bring forward would be, he trusted, advantageous to all classes of the community, and to none more than to that class, whose interest was supposed to be most affected by this article. His object was, in short, that the best beer should be obtained at the lowest price.
 Mr. Moberly  rose to make the motion of which be had given notice. The subject, he said, was of the greatest importance to the country. The table of the House was literally groaning under the weight of the petitions complaining of excessive taxation, and praying for relief. If the measure which he had to propose were acted upon, it would relieve the people to the extent of seven millions of taxes, and, at the same time, enable every thing to be carried on in the way most conducive to the honour of the country. It would
 303 l. l. s., l. l. s. l. 304 l. l. 305 l. 306 l., l. l. l., 307
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  commenced with stating, that from the line of argument taken by the hon. member, it would not be necessary for him to trespass at any considerable length on the attention of the committee. The hon. member had himself conceded the very points on which he should feel it his duty to oppose the hon. member's proposition.
 309 l. 310 l. l. 311 312 313
 Captain Maberly  said, he felt some difficulty in answering the objections which had been urged against the plan of his lion, relative, from the very nature of those objections. He had come down to the House expecting to hear something like argument against the practicability of carrying the measure into execution. The right hon. gentleman, however, had done little more than urge the danger of large monied companies dabbling in the land tax. Why, this was the very object Mr. Pitt had in view: his first idea was to make the land tax perpetual; he then allowed individuals, not proprietors, to purchase up the land tax, by paying 20 per cent by transferring from the funds, and 10 per cent if he were the proprietor. In this case the funded proprietor paid 20 per cent, for the privilege of converting his property from the funds into land. To this his hon. relative objected; and he coincided in the objection. He was desirous of placing the fund holder and the landholder on terms equally secure. He did not see how the argument of the chancellor of the exchequer could apply, that the annihilation of the debt would be the annihilation of income. If, at the end of 38 years the land tax would be redeemed by appropriating the sum of 1,200,000 l. l. 314
 Mr. Huskisson  apologized to the House for addressing it, after the able manner in which the subject had been discussed by his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the exchequer, and by the hon. member for Taunton. The House would at once perceive, that the present was an anticipation of the discussion that would take place more regularly on Monday next, when his right hon. friend had signified his intention of bringing the whole question respecting that most important part of our financial system, the sinking fund, under their consideration. He would not complain of it; but the right hon. gentleman who had just spoken had introduced the subject rather prematurely, in his observations on the speech of the hon. member for Taunton—a speech which he had heard with the greatest satisfaction, exhibiting, as it did, the most statesmanlike views with regard to the importance of retaining a surplus revenue, and employing it towards the liquidation of the debt. Coming, as that opinion did, from an individual of the hon. gentleman's knowledge and experience, it would have more weight in the country, and tend more to the maintenance of the public credit, than if it had proceeded from almost any other person in the House. He owned that he was much surprised at what had just fallen from the right hon. gentleman on the subject of the sinking fund. The right hon. gentleman's observations were as applicable against the creation of a sinking fund at any period, as they were against the maintenance of such a fund at present. When he recollected how strenuous a supporter the right hon. gentleman had been of the establishment of the sinking fund in 1786, he was at a loss to understand why he had so completely changed his opinion on the subject. The right hon. gentleman had urged, as one
 331 l. l. l. 332 l. l. 333 l. l. 334 335
 Mr. Calcraft  considered the present discussion to be important, not merely because it related to the plan of his hon. friend, but because it also involved the application of the surplus of our revenue, and the arrangement of the sinking fund. The right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, in alluding to his hon. friend's plan regarding the sinking fund, had said, that the objection which had been made to the sinking fund, as at present conducted, might have been made against its first establishment in 1786. Now, the Charge which the right hon. gentleman had made against his hon. friend did not apply at all. The internal state of the country differed so much from what it was in 1786, that no parity of circumstances could be found between them. For his own part, he did not consider the difference of opinion between the two sides of the House to be so great as the right hon. gentleman had represented it. The chancellor of the exchequer had told the country, that it was to have a remission of taxation to the amount of 2,000,000 l., l. l., l. l. 336 l.
 Mr. Maberly  shortly replied. He contended, that the plan which he had introduced to the House, did not deserve the name of bubble, which had been applied to it. Indeed, if it was a bubble, it was a bubble which not only Mr. Pitt had supported, but also the right hon. gentleman who had for so many years sat upon the opposite benches. The plan too, whether it was a good or bad one, was not his plan; but had for many years been sanctioned by an act of parliament. Kicked and cuffed about, as it had been that evening, he must still maintain, that no argument had been offered to the House, to show that it might not honestly and fairly remit seven millions of taxes, and by selling the land tax, get a substitute for the five millions which it had determined to apply annually to the maintenance of the sinking fund. With this conviction on his mind, he was determined to press his resolutions upon the House.
 Mr. Baring,  adverting to what had fallen from an hon. gentleman (Mr. W Maberly) observed, that if that hon. gentleman had not been quite so young, or had passed more years in observation upon the real state of the finances of the country, he would not have lent himself to the support of what appeared to him the lightest bubble that was ever blown
 320 l. l., l. l. l. l. 321 322 l. 323 324
 Mr. Ricardo  thought that the plan which had been proposed by the hon. mover, could by no means be considered as a desirable substitute for the sinking fund. At the same time, it might possess those merits which should induce the House to adopt it. In the manner in which his hon. friend had proposed that plan, he certainly could not acquiesce; for he thought it would fail to accomplish the object which he conceived to be so desirable. It was, indeed, most desirable, that we should diminish the amount of our debt; and to effect that diminution, he did believe it might be available; but, in such case, it must be adopted in a different way from that in which the hon. gentleman had stated it. Its object was to purchase up a certain quantity of the land tax, by the transfer of a certain quantity of stock; and then it went on to propose, that other parties might purchase the tax, in case the proprietor of the land should not choose to do so. If this had
 315 l. 316 l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. 317 l. l., l., l. l. l., 318 l. l. l., l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l.; l. l. l.; l. l., l. l. l. 319 l., l. l.; l.; l., l. l.
 Mr. Tierney  commenced by observing, that he could assure his hon. friend who had just sat down, that he did not view the subject lightly, but attached as much weight and consideration to it as his hon. friend could possibly do. But, what was the real question? It was nothing else than whether five millions were to be taken from the taxes of the country or not. He believed such arguments had been offered to the House, as at least would incline it to consider whether a sinking fund of five millions ought to be supported, or a reduction of taxes to that amount. He could say, without fear of contradiction, that no one had been a more consistent friend to the plan of Mr. Pitt's sinking fund than himself; but he had often warned the House of the lavish expense of that minister, under which no plan of a sinking fund could be carried into beneficial effect. But, though he supported the original principle of the sinking fund, he did not think that the present situation of the country was such as to bear a sinking fund of five millions. That situation was such, that it required at least a remission of taxes to that amount. He had outlived the real sinking fund, for of that established by Mr. Pitt, not a trace was now remaining. It was truly said by his hon. friend behind him, that repeated invasions had been made on the original sinking fund. He (Mr. T.) had witnessed those invasions, and had opposed every one of them. But now the mask was: thrown aside; for while the law declared that there was a sinking fund of 17 millions, the House was now called upon to declare, that there should be a sinking fund of but five millions. It. was said on the opposite side, that the public credit depended on a sinking fund of five mil-
 325 326 327 328 l. l. l. l. 329 l., l. hocus pocus! 330
 Mr. Brougham  said, the bill was precisely the same as that which he had proposed last year. He was not bound to find memory for the worthy alderman; all he was bound to do, in introducing the bill, was to make what appeared to him to be sound and apposite observations, which he was sorry the worthy alderman had so entirely failed to understand.
 Mr. Brougham,  in moving for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the retail trade in Beer, observed, that it was exactly the same bill as that which had passed through several stages in the last session. As soon as the bill should be brought in, it was his intention to move, that it be postponed until after the Easter recess, not merely on account of his being under the necessity of leaving town, but because the chancellor of the exchequer had intimated his intention of proposing a measure, tending towards the accomplishment of the same objects. He should have great satisfaction in seeing his measure taken up by so powerful a foster-parent; and though he could scarcely hope, that the right hon. gentleman's measure would go to the full extent of his own, yet, to whatever extent it might go, he was persuaded it would effect a great improvement in the present state of the law; that it would relieve the agriculturists, especially those who had light land, which was better adapted to the cultivation of barley than of wheat; and that it would tend greatly to increase the comfort, and advance the morals of the industrious classes of the community.
 302
 Mr. Whitmore  presented the following Petition from the Merchants, Ship-owners, and others, concerned in the Trade to the East Indies: 338 s. 339 340
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose. He said, that the object he had at present in view, was to propose to them a series of resolutions, for the purpose, in the first place, of carrying into effect the recommendation of a committee of last year, which had considered the state of the public accounts. He was on this occasion inclined to flatter himself, that his resolutions were of a description not likely to be opposed. It was constantly admitted in the abstract, when the question was incidently discussed, that it was right, in a time of peace, to effect a reduction of the public debt, by applying to that purpose, whatever surplus existed of revenue over the current expenditure; but still it was often thought, that the attempt was useless, because the great variety of circumstances arising out of the change of things in the country, had a constant tendency to render that surplus of revenue more applicable to other urgent exigencies at the time—indeed, to make its application to the reduction, otherwise advisable, impracticable, and often tending to a destruction of that surplus itself. This constant fluctuation of circumstances, and wavering of opinions respecting them, was not, in his judgment, a sufficient reason for abstaining from fixing upon a principle for the reduction of the debt. The object was too important, to be laid aside, merely because difficulties in its execution had arisen, or might again exist. It was no
 341 342 343 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l., l., l. 344 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. 345 l. l. l. l., l. 346 l.
 Mr. Robertson  entreated the attention of the House to a few statements, which might suffice to show the improvident manner in which the finances of the country had been administered, and the mischievous effects which had resulted, in consequence of the original institution of the sinking fund. Seventy years ago, the government borrowed money, at precisely 3 l. l. l. l. l. l. 350 l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l., l. l. l. 351 l., l., l., l. 352
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, that when the sinking fund was invaded by a former chancellor of the exchequer, he had resisted the invasion of it with the same arguments which the hon. member for Portarlington had recently employed. Though the House did not then listen to them, with the attention which it had lately bestowed on the subject, still he had reminded it, that the sinking fund ought not to be attacked at all; because, if it was beneficial in its effects in time of war, it was likely to be still more so in time of peace. He was happy to hear from the present chancellor of the exchequer that the country was to have an efficient sinking fund of 5,000,000 l.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, he must oppose the continuance of any thing like a sinking fund in the present circumstances of the country. He was surprised to hear the hon. member assert, that a remission of taxation would afford the people no relief; and that to maintain the contrary doctrine was to encourage a delusion. Why, then, had the chancellor of the exchequer proposed to remit two million of taxes on a former evening? And why had the House hailed that proposition with so much rapture? Was it because the House considered it a delusion, or because it considered it a measure likely to produce beneficial consequences? He believed there were many persons who thought it was a delusion on the part of the right hon. gentleman, to say that he could not repeal a larger amount of taxes than that which he had promised to repeal; but he knew of nobody, except
 363 364
 Mr. Baring  said, he agreed with the hon. member who had just sat down in many of his general observations, but he could not concur in the conclusions which he had drawn from some of them. He could not concur in the opinion, that when we continued to pay part of our debt by a sinking fund, we were going back. He would agree fully, that during the war, our sinking fund was kept up at a loss to the country; but how would this reasoning apply to a state of peace? But even in time of war, there were many who thought, and not without some appearance of reason, that public credit was better supported by a sinking fund, than it could be without it—who imagined, that it would be better maintained by borrowing 35 millions, leaving 5 as a sinking fund to pay the whole, than it would be by borrowing only 30 millions without having a sinking fund at all. He only mentioned this to show that the case was not so clear on the other side as the hon. member had represented it to be He (Mr. B.) admitted, that the sinking fund during the war was carried on at a loss; but not to the extent which the hon. member had described. He also concurred with the hon. member in thinking, that the system of borrowing with one hand to pay with another, was a had one; because, if he sold annuities or bills to buy other security, he not only did that, but he did it at a risk of loss; for, in creating a new kind of article, he must know that it was necessary to give an
 358 l. l. l., l., l. l. 359 360 361
 Mr. Baring  was convinced, that the evils which had lately befallen one of the leading interests of the country were mainly attributable to the change in the currency. When he had proposed silver as a proper standard, he had done so, because he conceived it to be the best and most practicable standard to which the country could recur. Even now, he was of the same opinion, though he was aware that, after the standard had been fixed for so many years, it would be extremely inconvenient to change it again.
 Mr. Maxwell,  in seconding the motion, returned thanks to the hon. member for taking up the case of the poor manufacturer and artisan. It was needless to comment upon a law which bound the employed, and left the employer free as air; and which gave protection to wealth and power, by withdrawing it from poverty and weakness. If the administration would assist in repealing laws which were effective only on the feeble, they would do more for their own credit, for the satisfaction of the people, and for the good of the community, than they had done during the two last parliaments.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, the subject which the hon. gentleman proposed to bring under the consideration of the House, was a very important one, and much deliberation would be necessary before any gentleman could pledge himself to support such a measure. He trusted that when the hon. member should have brought in the bill in as perfect a state as possible, he would postpone it for a convenient period, in order to afford the House an opportunity of duly considering its provisions.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  could not see why the hon. member should not have entered into some detailed statement of the measure which he intended to bring forward.
 Mr. John Smith  felt compelled to express his dissent from the doctrines of his hon. friend, who had spoken of public credit in terms of such derision. He believed the committee were perfectly clear in their ideas regarding public credit if they were not so, he would refer them to the excellent description which the hon. member for Taunton had given them of its effects on a former evening. The hon. member had informed the House, that there was a period during the war in which the government was obliged, from a want of public credit, to incur a heavy expense, which, under a better system, it might have avoided. If such was the case, was it not the bounden duty of the committee to support public credit, seeing that every thing which contributed to it tended to produce economy in the government? Admitting as he did the distress of the agricultural interest, he must still contend, that it was necessary to support the sinking fund. The agricultural interest, he maintained, would be the earliest sufferers, if there was any failure in public credit. What would be the consequence, if we, who had been the parents of the sinking fund system, should be the first to destroy, it?
 365
 Mr. Hume  was sorry that the system of sinking funds had ever been adopted in this country; and felt sure, that every country which followed our example, would, ere long, have the same reasons for repentance. From the facility of borrowing came a profusion of expenditure, and a total neglect of any thing like economy. Had it not been for the facility with which the government had obtained loans, whenever it wanted them, we should never have had such a wasteful expenditure of our resources.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had heard the statement which had been made by the chancellor of the exchequer, with considerable surprise, because it was in contradiction to documents which had been laid on the table of the House. He therefore hoped that the right hon. gentleman would, as early as possible, put the House in possession of a printed statement, which might be compared with other documents. It was impossible the House could come to a just conclusion with respect to the operations of the sinking fund, without referring to all the accounts which had been laid before parliament; and there were four or five different sets of those accounts, all differing from each other, as he should be able to prove, if the chancellor of the exchequer would consent to go into a committee upon the resolutions which he (Mr. Hume) submitted to the House last year, and which he intended again to propose. The chancellor of the exchequer was wrong in the calculation which he had made of the amount of debt redeemed by the operation of the sinking fund, from 1816 to the present time. The diminution of the debt, which the right hon. gentleman considered to be the result of the operation of the sinking
 353 
 
 Income. Expenditure. 
 Year 1817 £.57,650,589 £.58,544,049 
 1818 59,667,941 57,872,428 
 1819 58,680,252 57,392,544 
 1820 59,769,680 57,476,755 
 1821 60,686,076 57,639,893 
 Total 296,454,538 288,925,669 l. l. l. l. 
 
 In 1817 £.31,266,601 
 1818 31,551,751 
 1819 30,792,025 
 1820 31,252,612 
 1821 31,966,078 l. l. l., l. l. 354 l. l. l. l., l., l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 355 l. l., l. 356 l. l. l. l. 357 l.
 Mr. P. Moore  said, he had no objection to gratify the right hon. secretary with a longer speech. His measure would embrace three objects; first, to bring back a great number of eminent artificers from the continent; secondly, to effect a better distribution of the profits of labour between the employers and the employed; and thirdly, to facilitate the means of recovering debts and deciding suits between artificers and their employers. He had been under the
 367
 Mr. Peter Moore  moved for leave to bring in a bill "to amend the laws against the Combination of Workmen."
 Mr. Leycester  remonstrated against that callous feeling which could allow the House to listen patiently to such calculations as those which the right hon. gentleman had just submitted to them, instead of turning their attention to the best means of affording relief to the distresses of the country. The condition of the treasury was a secondary consideration in the present crisis. The purse of the people was the best treasury of the state. With respect to the sinking fund, even if it
 349
 Mr. T. Wilson  observed, that after the very able manner in which the hon. member had proved the utility of a sinking fund, he would not trouble the House with any remarks on that subject. It was a most absurd position to assert, that we ought not to endeavour to pay off in peace, the debt we had contracted in war. How, in the name of God, could we do otherwise? Were we to set the example of breaking faith with the public creditor, when every country in Europe, at the close of the war, had taken steps to secure the payment of their debts. Were we less able, or were we to be less honest, than they. An hon. member said, that we
 362 l. l.
 Mr. Stuart  expressed his strong disapprobation of the proposed committee. He likewise defended the late primate of Ireland against the attack which had been made upon him by the hon. member. The assertions which that hon. member had made, in derogation of his conduct, were totally unfounded. Before the year 1807, there were no means of enforcing the clergy of Ireland to residence. The bill for that purpose was introduced by the late primate, who had been made the subject of such unfounded attack.
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald,  knight of Kerry, said, that if he had felt some difficulty regarding the vote which he should give upon the resolutions then before the House, that difficulty had not been removed by the speech of the right hon. secretary. If he could not assent, on
 400 401 402
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought the hon. gentleman might have deferred till the day after to-morrow offering an opinion as to the measure to be brought forward by his right hon. friend. Thus much confidence he considered due to the Irish government, who, it had been admitted, had selected for high offices those only who were recommended by their fitness to fill them. Credit, therefore, might have been given them for a disposition to reform abuses which had been shown to prevail. The hon. gentleman had stated, that the Protestant population had been withdrawn from a considerable district, in consequence of the neglect of the Protestant church. He begged to read what had led to the Protestant population referred to being so withdrawn. He then read a statement from the lord primate, which set forth, that the livings in these parishes were so low, that no clergyman could be found to accept of them, a factious vote of the Irish House of Commons having reduced the vicars to want, and made it necessary to unite several vicarages into one benefice. In a case where several of these had been thus united, the total income arising from them did not exceed 200 l.; l. 403 404 405
 Colonel Wood  took the opportunity of stating, that he should submit for the approbation of the House the resolutions he had proposed last session. As, however, he understood from his learned friend, that it would be inconvenient for him to be in his place until after the circuit, he should not call the attention of the house to this subject until that period. He understood the object of the bill was to provide some further coercion, by which the poorer classes would be prevented from applying for parochial assistance. To this he would never consent. The people of England had so much good temper, that they could be easily led; but they had so much high spirit, that the attempt to drive them would be as impracticable as it would be unjust.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought it but fair to state, that he had never, in any debate on the Catholic question, urged the coronation oath against the concessions demanded. Such an argument he had never used; nor would he ever use one, which be was not prepared to avow acid maintain.
 Mr. Plunkett  begged to trespass on the Mouse for a few moments. He did so with reluctance, but he felt he should be wanting to himself, to the situation which he had the honour to fill, and to the part which he was accustomed to take on that question, which had been incidentally connected with the debate of that night, if he were not to offer one or two observations on this occasion. The nature of church property was well known to the House. It was not for the purpose of speaking on this subject, that he had risen. But he could not allow the resolutions of the hon. member to be offered to the consideration of the House, without expressing, in terms as strong as the English language could supply, or the rules of parliament would allow him to use in that House, his sense of the folly and desperation of the measure which had been proposed, and without expressing the strongest reprobation of it which it was in his power to bestow. The plan of the hon. gentleman for governing the church of Ireland, if proper for that country, would be proper for England. If adopted by parliament, they would in effect declare, that the property of the hierarchy was public property, and was liable to be disposed of for purposes of religion, or for any other purposes. This would prepare the way for the downfall of the hierarchy: that of the throne must follow; and this would, of course, involve the overthrow of the constitution. He was no advocate for the divine right or the sacredness of church more than any other kind of property. But be was an advocate for the sacredness of all property. He spoke language which came home to the breast of every Englishman, when be said, that the church of England was an integral part
 408 409
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose to correct the hon. member. He had not stated, that the hon. member was the enemy of the country, but the enemy of inquiry.
 Mr. Plunkett  rose to correct the hon. member. He had never mentioned the individual who brought forward the measure; but he had described the measure as full of desperation and folly.
 Mr. Marryat  rose to call the attention of the House to certain letters written by the secretary of the Admiralty, in October last, in the name of the board, and intended for the information of the public. These letters, he said, contain statements directly at variance with fact, as can be proved by documents of unquestionable authority, as well as by the evidence of various respectable and uninterested eye-witnesses; and therefore this is a case which calls loudly for investigation. Hitherto, the authenticity of all communications coming from the public departments of government has been so unimpeachable, that when we would describe information as being true beyond all possibility of doubt, we do so in one word, by saying that it is
 417 418 419 420 421 422 423 424 425 426 427 "Out on ye, owls, nothing but songs of death? "There, take thou that, till thou bring better news:" 428
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose, for the purpose of enforcing the suggestion of the hon. member who had spoken last. He trusted that, as every fair purpose which could have been hoped for had been answered by the discussion, the hon. mover would not think it necessary to persevere in obtaining a vote which would cast blame on the Admiralty, when, in fact, there was no real ground for censure. He should, however, deal unfairly with the House, if he omitted to state, that having been the only member in town at the period of the communications alluded to, he had been of opinion, after the last letter from the committee of Lloyd's, that no option was left to the Admiralty as to any further communication. Before that letter, he had had every wish for the continuance of the intercourse; but, when the committee thought proper to state, that they would receive no other than a written communication from the first public hoard in the kingdom, and when the alternative had been presented, either that the Admiralty should wait on Lloyd's, or that Lloyd's should wait on the Admiralty, it could not be reasonably expected that the latter would submit. But now that it was agreed on all hands, that the intercourse and communication between those boards was for the public benefit, he hoped that they would go on as had hitherto been the custom, and that after that night, none of the disagreements and misunderstandings which had broken out would continue. If any difficulty still existed as to the mode in which the invitation should be couched, that might he obviated by a reference to some established authority, on points of etiquette so momentous. The gentlemen might consult Dr. Trusler's principles of Politeness, or some other book of equal weight, and then they would readily devise some means of giving the invitation, by which the possibility of giving unintentional offence might be avoided. There was another point, however, of a nature a little more serious, and upon this he wished to say a few words. The measures which had been taken, involved not merely a question of department. It was found that no amount of naval force alone could accomplish the object which was so desirable; namely, the extirpation of the pirates, unless their operations were assisted by a land force. This latter force must consist either of the inhabitants of
 435
 Mr. Marryat  said, that the committee of Lloyd's had been urged to take the steps they had taken, not by a feeling of individual interest, but from an imperious sense of public duty. He concluded by stating, that he would evince his concurrence in that spirit of conciliation which had been recommended by the right honourable gentleman, by withdrawing his motion.
 Mr. Bright,  though he concurred in much of what had fallen from the hon. officer, was not satisfied that sufficient protection had been afforded by the Admiralty to the trade on the West India station. The force might have been well employed, such as it was; but it did not appear to him that it was sufficient. The hon. member quoted a resolution of a meeting of the merchants of Kingston, complaining that the seas were infested by pirates, and that the squadron employed was inadequate to the defence of those seas. He also observed, that the island of Nassau had fitted out two vessels at its own expense, for which they ought to have been repaid by the government. This was another proof of the inadequacy of the naval force. He trusted that the Admiralty would omit no means of prosecuting the men who were already taken, and that they would take care to protect the trade in the ensuing season.
 Mr. Goulburn  begged to deny the having charged the hon. member with any want of honour or justice. All he had said was, that, consistently with his own sense of honour and justice, he could not vote for the motion. His objectionwas—and with him it was a decided one— that the spoliation of the church must
 416
 Mr. Goulburn  felt it unnecessary to state, that he rose for the purpose of giving his most decided negative to the hon. member's resolutions. That was not the first time he heard opinions broached in that House, similar to those now advocated by the hon. member; but, wherever he met them, whether supported by the most powerful eloquence, or by that lengthened and minute detail, for which the hon. gentleman was distinguished, he should always be ready to oppose to them the best resistance which it was in his power to make. If, on this occasion, he felt any difficulty in answering the hon. member, it arose, not from the intricacy of the subject, not from the weight of the arguments to which he had to reply, but from the difficulty of restraining his indignation at witnessing the attempts now made to overthrow the foundation of all property, and to malign the established church, to which we were attached, not merely from habit and education, but from a practical experience of the incalculable benefits which we derived from it. He hoped he might be allowed to commence his argument by adverting to that part of the subject with which the hon. member for Aberdeen had concluded, and to express his astonishment
 391 392 393 l. 394 395 396 397 398 399
 Mr. Grattan  said, that from what had fallen from the other side, he was apprehensive that no effectual measures were intended to be proposed by the government on this important subject. Inquiry was certainly necessary: he should, therefore, support the resolutions, without agreeing, in all the doctrines advanced by the hon. mover. He should never support any principles of spoliation; but he was of opinion, that the officers of the church in Ireland, and its revenues, ought to be regulated. By the present system, Ireland had been made a Catholic country; for there were Dot now more than four or five hundred thousand Protestants in Ireland.
 Mr. Monck  agreed with the hon. mover, that the ecclesiastical revenues were not so much intended to benefit the clergy as the people at large. When the House was called upon to vote millions for the building of churches, where could be the harm of asking whether the ecclesiastical revenues were not equal to bear the expense? Where could be the harm of taking something from the hierarchy of the church to be bestowed upon the inferior clergy? It was with this view that he should support the resolutions, and not with any desire of spoliation; because he did not think that either the church of England or of Ireland were too well endowed.
 Mr. Hume , in rising to reply, put it to the right hon. gentlemen opposite, if his language, or if any thing which he had said, deserved the warmth which the right hon. gentleman had displayed. He should have scarcely troubled the House again, as the facts in his speech had not been met; but an attempt had been made to misrepresent his expressions, and he owed it to the House—he owed it to himself—he owed it to the cause he was advocating, to meet that attempt as it deserved to be met. The right hon. secretary for Ireland had attempted to mistify, and grossly to misrepresent his propositions, by comparing them to the proceedings of the parliament of 1640, which went to sweep away the whole property of the church from the then possessors, whilst his proposal was, to secure to the present incumbents their full incomes for their lives, and only to propose a change for
 410
 Mr. Hume,  in continuation, apologized for trespassing on the rules of the House, as he by no means wished or intended to apply any term improper or unparliamentary to any member of the House. The secretary for Ireland seemed to have entirely forgot his (Mr. H.'s) speech, and not to have read his resolutions. He (Mr. H.) had certainly a right to complain, that his opinions had been placed in an improper light, although no attempts had been made to answer his arguments. The right hon. gentleman had conjured up something said by some one else, in some other place, and this phantom he had combated with great vigour. In what instance, Mr. Hume asked, had he ever attacked individual property? He had specially guarded against such an interpretation both in his speech and his resolutions, by expressing his wish to respect all vested rights. What similarity, therefore, was there between his arguments and those which the right hon. secretary had been combating? The right hon. secretary had said, he would on no account be concerned in bringing forward resolutions which implied a sacrifice of honour, honesty, and justice. He (Mr. H.) was not, however, ashamed to put forth such resolutions; and he felt himself as incapable as the right hon. gentleman of supporting any thing which was dishonourable, dishonest, or unjust [Hear, hear!]. Because he differed from other gentlemen
 411
 Mr. Hume,  in continuation, said, that he wished to avoid personalties, and to have arguments—weighty arguments, which alone were worthy of such a subject. The right hon. the attorney-general for Ireland had said, that he could not suffer the first resolution to pass, without expressing, in the strongest terms the English language could supply, or parliamentary usage would permit, his detestation of the desperation and folly of the individual who proposed it [Hear, hear!].
 Mr. Hume , in rising to make his proposed motion relative to the Church Establishment of Ireland, assured the House, that he felt most deeply the difficulty of the subject; but, as no other member appeared to take the same view of the question that he entertained, he felt
 368 369 370 371 372 373 l. 374 375 376 l. l. l. l., l., l., l., l. l, l., 377 l. 378 
 
 Resident 758 
 Non-resident by exemption 81 
 Non-resident by dispensation 243 
 Without statement for what 157 
 Miscellaneous. 50 581 
 Total 1,289 379 sine quâ non 380 381 l., l., l. l., l. l. 382 l. l l. 383 384 385 
 
 In the gift of the bishops  1,391 
 In the gift of the crown  293 
 Total in the gift of the crown and bishops  1,684 
 In lay hands  367 
 In University  21 
 Impropriate and vacant, and without churches or Incumbents  95 
 The total number of parishes in Ireland by that statement are  2,244 386 l., l., l. 387 388 389 
 1. "That the property of the church of Ireland, at present in the possession of the bishops, the deans, and chapters of Ireland, is public property, under the control and at the disposal of the legislature, for the support of religion, and for
 390 2. "That it is expedient to inquire whether the present Church Establishment of Ireland be not more than commensurate to the services to be performed, both as regards the number of persons employed and the incomes they receive; and, if so, whether a reduction of the same should not take place, with due regard to all existing interests. 3. "That the peace and best interests of Ireland would be promoted by a commutation of all tithes, on such principles as shall be considered just and equitable to the present possessors, whether lay or clerical. 4. "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider in what way the objects stated in these resolutions can be best carried into effect."
 Mr. Hume , in continuation, said, that as the measure was declared to be full of desperation and folly, and as he was the agent who introduced it to the House, he could not but suppose these epithets were applied to himself. But really to listen to the speech of the right hon. the attorney-general for Ireland, the House might have supposed that church property was touched, or rather attempted to be meddled with, for the first time. In the last session, the question had been discussed, and he was happy to see the discussion had already done good. The right hon. gentleman had then talked of commutation of tithes, when proposed by him (Mr. H.), as a profanation; but now, this measure was sanctioned by the government, and brought forward by the secretary for Ireland. Some progress, therefore, had been made in church affairs; and he hoped soon to see more. The right hon. attorney-general for Ireland had said, the Catholic question was completely incorporated in his whole nature. He (Mr. H.) hoped the time would therefore come, when, to support it effectually, would be conformable to his interest. If my whole
 412 413 414 415
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  regretted that the gentlemen at Lloyd's did not go to the Admiralty, but hoped that a good understanding would for the future exist, and that the hon. gentleman would consent to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Nolan  moved for leave to bring in a bill, for amending the laws relating to the maintenance and employment of the poor. The principles upon which the amendments he should propose were founded, were nearly the same as those he had submitted to the House last session. There were some trifling differences between the alterations he had now to propose, and those of his former motion; but he did not think fit to explain them now, as the second reading of the bill would afford a better opportunity for discussing the subject in all its forms.
 Mr. Denman  expressed his satisfaction at the explanation.
 Mr. Denman  said, he could not consent that the House of Commons should he disqualified, by the general assertions of the right hon. secretary, from entertaining any proposition which might be laid before them with a view to the benefit of the community. Not having heard all the speech of the hon. mover, he yet thought that he should desert his duty to an important part of the empire, if he resisted the proposed inquiry, especially as he was little disposed to expect efficient measures of reform from the gentlemen on the other side of the House, who avowed principles which would be fatal to all reform. As to the argument deduced by the right hon. secretary from the act of Union, if the object of that act was to preserve the establishment from any change, it would afford an argument against any change which should originate with the government, as well as against any which should originate with the House. If, on the other hand, the act of Union was not to stand in the way of reform,
 406 407
 Mr. T. Wilson  expressed his regret, that any misunderstanding had taken
 433
 The Speaker  here called the hon. member to order. He said he had waited till the last moment, and had even not stopped the hon. member when he used the unparliamentary term of gross misrepresentations; but, when he went on to attribute motives to right hon. members, he felt it his duty to call him to order.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that the two vessels provided by the island of Nassau were not fit for the service upon which they were employed, being too large to act with effect against the pirates. The Admiralty had felt it their duty to send vessels which could follow them any where, and also to send an overwhelming force.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, he was not without hopes of proving to the satisfaction of the House, that the statement of the hon. gentleman was erroneous, and his comments unfounded; for he (Mr. Marryat) had mixed up with his statements, observations on the board of Admiralty. He (sir G. Cockburn) would therefore first address himself to reply to the insinuations thrown out against the board, and would afterwards reply to the statements
 429 430 431 432
 Sir Isaac Coffin  said, the conduct of the gentlemen at Lloyd's reminded him of the fable of the frog and the ox. As an old officer, he was ready to declare, that no board had done so much for the country as the present board of Admiralty. The behaviour of these gentlemen at Lloyd's had been most indecent. The lord mayor, or the directors of the East India company would have considered it no disgrace to wait on the Admiralty. He defended the conduct of admiral Rowley, and said, that a more honourable person was not to be found. The charge against the Admiralty would, he trusted, be treated with contempt.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he should be very sorry to do any thing which the hon. baronet might consider indecorous; but when he had heard all the misfortunes of the sister isle, even the failure of the crop of potatoes, ascribed to the Jesuits, he could not avoid smiling. The hon. baronet wished the House to imitate the conduct of the emperor of China in 1726; and because his Tartarian majesty had, at that period, expelled the Jesuits, he conceived the British government ought to pursue the same course in 1823. He hoped the petitioner would come to the bar of the House, and bring a Jesuit with him. A Jesuit was a sort of historical creature. He had travelled as far, he believed, as the hon. baronet, and yet he had never once met with a Jesuit. He should really be glad if a Jesuit were produced, that they might see what sort of an animal it was with which they had to contend [A laugh.]
 Sir T. Lethbridge  rose for the purpose of presenting a petition from Mr. William Parker, of the city of Cork. He had no acquaintance with the petitioner, but he believed he was well know to the hon. member for Cork. The petition contained various allegations, for the truth of which the hon. member did not intend to vouch; but as it contained information from various quarters, relative to a subject which was shortly to come before the House, he had thought fit to present it. There was contained in it also one charge, which in particular he would not be understood to vouch for: it was against an individual holding an office, and whose name he would not have mentioned if he could have avoided it—he meant Christopher Bird, the colonial secretary at the Cape of Good Hope. The petition set forth, that the petitioner had headed a party of settlers, who, in the year 1819, had proceeded with the authority of government to that colony. He went on to state the petitioner's belief, that most of the calamities which had afflicted the world would appear, if they were properly explained, to have proceeded from the secret and insidious practices of the Jesuits, who, under the pretence of being a religious society, were, in fact, a formidable political sect. That they had been founded by pope Paul 3rd, for the purpose of counteracting the glorious effects of the reformation. The history of the Jesuits proved that they had always been hostile to monarchs, whether Protestant or Catholics. However beneficial the propagation of knowledge might be, the Jesuits must, in the words of the historian Hume, "bear the reproach from posterity, that by the very nature of their institution, they were engaged to pervert learning, the only effectual remedy against superstition, into a nourishment of that infirmity; and as their erudition was chiefly of the ecclesiastical and scholastic kind (though a few members have cultivated polite literature), they were only the more enabled by that acquisition to refine away the plainest dictates of morality, and to erect a regular system of casuistry, by which prevarication, perjury, and every crime, when it served
 437 l. 438 439
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he would make a few observations, as he had been particularly alluded to by the hon. baronet. He was acquainted with Mr. Parker, the petitioner, who, in every relation of life, was a most exemplary character. He believed him to be an aggrieved individual; who, when he left this country, had indulged in expectations, which unfortunately were not realized. He proceeded with a very large family and several followers, to the Cape of Good Hope; and certainly he had a claim upon government, because the hopes which had been held out to him and others proved to be fallacious; he lost his property, and was seriously injured. He lamented exceedingly that Mr. Parker had alluded to colonel Bird, the colonial secretary. He had felt it to be his duty to inquire who col. Bird was, and he understood that, for several years, he was employed in the department of the commander-in-chief. He was afterwards placed in a subordinate situation at the Cape of Good Hope, and was ultimately raised to that of colonial secretary. He had been introduced to public life, under the auspices of the late Mr. Windham. The  gravamen 440 441
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald,  knight of Kerry, said, that among sentiments that might be controverted, and statements that might be disputed, his hon. friend, who last spoke, had mingled many expressions calculated to augment the spirit, the existence of which the House and the country so deeply regretted. Upon authority that could not be questioned, he was provided with the means of exhibiting a picture, the very reverse of that which his hon. friend had presented. No man could approach the question with move pain than himself, because he was called upon to accuse and criminate a large body of his countrymen, some of Ahem his nearest and his oldest friends. But, while he recognized private worth, its very existence showed the baneful influence of the worst principles upon the best hearts, and the clearest understandings. He denied that the Orange societies arose out of any disaffected spirit or practices, on the part of the Roman Catholics: he denied it on the authority of the legislature itself, of the king's speeches to the Irish parliament, and of the reports of secret committees, of which he had been a member. He denied it on his own distinct recollection of the evidence given in 1798, by the directors of the United Irishmen. That evidence stated, that, down to Christmas, 1796, when the French, invaded the south of Ireland, not a single Catholic had been admitted to that association. In that formidable conspiracy, to which any other in any country, was mere child's play, a society of 500,000 men, bound, by secret oaths, to overturn the government, and to establish, by means of a bloody revolution, a republic on the ruins of the constitution—they had evidence on oath, that for years there was not a single Catholic, with the exception indeed of one of the directors, Dr. Macuevin, who professed himself a Catholic, though he believed him to be a man of no religion at all. That very in-
 479
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  alluded to that part of his hon. friend's speech, in which he had described the manner of putting down the rebellion in Ireland. His hon. friend had spoken of the rebellion as having been put down by the Orangemen, who were then the only loyal subjects. How did his hon. friend propose to sustain that assertion? The rebellion had been put down, not by the Orangemen singly, but by a combination of all parties. In addition to the regular troops, there had been employed in putting down the rebellion, a yeomanry, composed indiscriminately of Catholics and Protestants, and a militia, twenty-six or twenty-seven thousand strong, three-fourths of whom were Catholics. He had been surrounded by Catholics during that rebellion, who displayed as much ardor, and as much loyalty, as could be found in any class of his majesty's subjects. Why, the fact was proved by the royal thanks given equally to both classes for their zeal and exertion. He did not state these things to controvert his hon. friend's assertion, for the assertion controverted itself; but he stated them because he wished to impress upon the House the extent to which party spirit could actuate even the most generous and enlightened minds. What, then, could be expected from the humbler and unenlightened orders, forced by their condition into constant contact with the lower classes of the Catholics, and having those same Catholics pointed out to them, from hour to hour, as rebellious subjects, or objects of detestation? The effect of all this might be seen in a contrast—a lamentable Contrast—between the state of society in England and in Ireland. Whatever might be the violence of political differences in England, there needed but some great national object at once to secure unanimity. On that feeling the crown and the government of England could always depend with safety. But in Ireland every thing resolved itself into faction. Government there could rely on no support, but that which it obtained by arming one faction against another. The country contained the raw material of a good public mind; but that public mind could only be formed and developed by an honest, an impartial administration of policy and laws—by showing to all parties; Catholics and Protestants, that it was not
 481
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, the House
 482 483 484 485 486 487 488
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, it was not his intention to detain the House long; nor indeed should he have risen at all, had it not been for the direct personal appeal which had been made to him. It was the less necessary for him to answer the hon. and learned gentleman, since every principle which he could wish to advocate—every measure of which he could desire the adoption—had been supported by the united sentiments of the House. A right hon. gentleman who spoke early in the debate, had said, that his hopes of a favourable result would have been much greater, if the present lord lieutenant had, like lord Cornwallis, been connected with a government, not divided upon a particular measure, in which the welfare of Ireland was concerned. Whatever his wishes might be on this subject, he felt persuaded, from past experience, that it was scarcely possible to find a cabinet united on the great question of the Catholic claims, however entire their concurrence might he in other leading political questions. He abated none of the sanguineness of hope with which he had always addressed himself to that question. These sentiments he did not now state for the first time. They were the same that he had entertained and avowed at all periods, and when he could not be supposed to have any interest in taking such a part. But, while he admitted, that unanimity of opinion did not exist with respect to that single question, among the members of the government, he could assure the House, that no government could be more disposed to administer the affairs of Ireland with an equal hand, or more united in the determination to support that government in Ireland, under whose influence the prin-
 489
 Mr. Brownlow  said, that when, on former evening, he was asked whether he knew of the existence of Jesuits in Ireland, he had pleaded ignorance. He had, however, since received letters from different parts of Ireland, censuring his ignorance on that point, and stating that there were unquestionably establishments of Jesuits in that country.
 Mr. Dawson  denied having uttered
 480
 Mr. Dawson  said, that representing a body of electors who had the strongest feeling upon the subject, and entertaining himself, feelings at least as strong as theirs, he must claim the indulgence of the House for a short time. Perhaps in his situation it would be the more prudent course to remain silent, but he could not conceal from himself, that silence on such a subject would be as disgraceful to him as unjust to his constituents. He expressed his acquiescence in every thing which fell from his right hon. friend, the secretary for Ireland, but he hoped he should be pardoned for entertaining feelings somewhat warmer on the subject. He spoke as an Irishman, and as one connected with all those who were attacked by the present motion; his right hon. friend, as an Englishman, and uninfluenced by any local ties. He rejoiced that an opportunity had at length arrived of discussing the question on its own individual merits; that the day had come when truth might be heard, when the calumnies cast upon a loyal body of men might be refuted, and when the House and the country, by hearing both sides of the question, might decide how far the Orange association was illegal, and how far it deserved the imputations which had been so unsparingly heaped upon it. An outcry had been raised, whatever might be the merits and demerits of the association, and no effort had been spared to create an unpopular feeling against it. The public press, particularly the press of Ireland, had entered into a general confederacy to give the name of Orangeman to every party, nay, to every
 467 468 469 470 471 472 473 474 475 l. 476 477 478
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had never risen with stronger feelings of anxiety than those by which he was then overpowered—an anxiety founded upon no personal considerations, but arising out of a feeling that this question was so closely bound up with another subject which was likely to come before the House, that he feared it would open a door, not only for premature discussion, but for much misrepresentation. He could not but regret that the hon. and learned member had thought it his duty to agitate the subject at the present moment; and the more so, as there was, in a short time, a question to be brought forward which would, to a certain extent, involve the present. He had hoped that the hon. and learned member would have yielded to the request made by a right hon. and learned friend of his, to postpone his motion for a short time. He trusted, however, that the fears he entertained with respect to the discussion, would turn out to be unfounded. And here he felt bound to pay the hon. and learned member, who introduced the motion, the tribute of his thanks for having done so, without making a single observation which could prejudice that discussion to which he (Mr. G.) alluded. And he would implore those honourable members who might take a part in the discussion, to follow the example so laudably set them, and at least to do the Irish government the justice of not bringing their conduct prematurely under discussion. It could not be expected that he should concur in the motion made by the hon. and learned member; but he had no difficulty in stating, that he concurred, in a greater or
 461 462 463 464 465
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that before he entered upon the subject of his motion, relative to certain secret societies in Ireland, commonly called Orange societies, he was anxious, in order to avoid misconception, to declare, that he had no intention whatever of alluding to the merits or demerits of the marquis Wellesley's administration. Whenever that subject came to be discussed, he should consider himself as free as any other member of the House to deliver his opinions upon it. Neither was it his intention to interfere, in the smallest degree, with what was called the Catholic question. The subject which he should develope that night, he would treat in such a manner as to entitle him, he trusted, to the votes both of the advocates for concession to the Catholics, and the supporters of their political exclusion. His motion would rest on general grounds, and would not disentitle him from receiving the support of both the classes he had mentioned, or of that of any other description of persons. He was well aware, that the notice of his motion was said to have created considerable agitation on the part of certain classes of persons in Ireland. It might be so; and he was ready to admit and assume that to be the fact; but, so far from its being a reason against the discussion of this subject, he thought the very agitation which was said to prevail, was the strongest argument in support of the necessity of consideration with the least possible delay. When it was said that persons connected with this Orange system felt averse from this question, it ought at the same time to be admitted, that there were others, and a very great majority of the people of Ireland, who loudly called for this discussion. Under such circumstances, it was incumbent upon parliament to probe the matter to the bottom, and pronounce a legislative opinion upon the merits of the case. If it
 444 445 446 447 448 449 450 451 452 453 454 455 456 457 458 * * 459 460
 Mr. Abercromby,  in reply, observed, that if the right hon. gentleman expected such a discussion as he had described, it was in the power of ministers to have prevented it, by communicating what they had now stated before the discussion came on. Every object that he had in view would be effectually attained by the course which government had stated it to be their intention to adopt. His object was to have an effectual law in Ireland, as well as in this country, to extinguish societies bound together by a secret oath, and the secretary of state did great injustice to his views and feelings if he thought him capable of continuing a contest with him, after having obtained the measure for which he was anxious. He had felt himself justified, however, in making the motion, under the circumstances, and especially as he was persuaded, that the discussion would afford great satisfaction to a numerous part of the population of Ireland. He trusted that, after the explanation which had been given, the House would not object to his withdrawing his motion.
 Mr. Grattan  was of opinion, that government ought to proceed vigorously in putting down these factious societies. Such of the members as were placemen, ought to be turned out of their offices; for that was the only effectual mode of staying their violent proceedings.
 Mr. Hume  said, he conceived that Mr. Parker had good ground of complaint against the colonial government; but he certainly had no right to mix it up with observations on the Jesuits. With respect to the petitions presented by the hon. member for Armagh, they were not, as he had been informed, signed by any respectable individuals. Could that hon. member, of his own knowledge, state where any establishment of Jesuits existed? For his own part, he should have
 443
 Mr. Wilmot  protested against the discussion which the hon. baronet had introduced, as being wholly irrelevant to the matter immediately before the House. The petition set forth that Mr. Parker went out as a settler to the Cape of Good Hope; that he failed in realizing the expectations he had formed; that he had encountered various misfortunes, and all this he attributed to colonel Bird, whom he accused of being a Jesuit. If either of the hon. members thought Mr. Parker had any reason to complain of the conduct of government, it would be competent for him to present a petition on the subject, and it would then remain for him (Mr. W.) to lay before the House all the information which the colonial department possessed relative to his case. If the two hon. members were to devote the whole of their time till the same hour tomorrow, in the perusal of Mr. Parker's correspondence with the colonial department, they would not be able to get through it. Mr. Parker imputed the failure of the harvest at the Cape, and all
 442 non sequitur
 Sir J. Newport  declared, that he would not support the motion, if he thought it calculated to throw any censure on the Irish government. Until he had heard the right hon. secretary declare the intention of the Irish government to assimilate the law of Ireland with regard to secret societies, with the laws of England, he could not have anticipated that any such measure had been in contemplation; knowing, though he did, that such a law was much more necessary in Ireland than it had ever been in England. Year after year had he wearied the House with his endeavours to convince it of the impolicy of allowing any secret societies to exist. It was, therefore, most satisfactory to him, and he had little doubt but it was equally satisfactory to his hon. and learned friend, to hear that the provisions of the act of 1799 were to be extended to Ireland. That was the way to proceed. It was idle to permit the existence of these secret societies under any pretence. They tended to embarras the government, and to divide the people; and Ireland, unfortunately, had too long been governed by the policy of dividing
 466
 Mr. Secretary Peel  presented the following message from the King:—
 "George R. "His majesty being informed that doubts have arisen touching the powers vested in his majesty to dispose of any
 490
 Colonel Davies rose  to present a petition, which, he said, disclosed a case of great individual hardship. The petitioner was col. Allen, who, having served many years in the army, had at, untied the rank of lieutenant-colonel. In 1817, he was with his regiment, the 55th, in the island of Jersey, where he had some disagreement with general Bailey, who commanded the garrison there. General Bailey had accused him of making false returns, and that he should be suspended from the command of his regiment. It was impossible for col. Allen to submit to this imputation: he invited an investigation into his conduct; and this application having been disregarded by general Bailey, he wrote to head-quarters, preferring the same request. He heard nothing in reply for three months, when an order came down, not for the inquiry which he had sought, but for a court-martial, by which he was tried on three distinct charges: for making false returns; for trying men at drum-head courts-martial; and for having more men in the barracks than they ought to have contained. On the first charge, the sentence was tantamount to an acquittal; for, although the returns were technically incorrect, they had been pronounced not to be willfully false. On the second, he had been found guilty: but with the exception of the evidence not being reduced to writing, a court-martial at the drum-head was as satisfactory as a trial by any other method. The sentence was, that col. Allen should be placed 12 months lower on the list, and be reprimanded. The prince regent had been pleased to confirm this sentence, and had moreover ordered, as it appeared inconsistent with the well-being of the service that col. Allen should continue in com-
 491
 Mr. Bennet  said, that when it was proved, that corporal punishment had been unnecessarily and improperly resorted to, the commander-in-chief was, he conceived, bound to express his disapprobation of the system.
 Colonel Davies  said, he had no acquaintance whatever with colonel Allen.
 494 l.
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that, if ever there was a case in which the prerogative of the crown had been exerted with propriety, and tempered with leniency, it was the case of colonel Allen.
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  gave great credit to government, for the efforts they were making to diminish the evils under which Ireland laboured. With regard to the measures now proposed, he did not distinctly understand how that which was to be permanent would work, nor how that which was to be temporary was to be limited in time. He could not see the advantage in the latter of the references every three years; nor did he think that part of the bill which required the assembly of special vestries applicable in many parts of Ireland. In many parishes of Ireland there was not even a substantial farmer, much less a resident gentleman; and, in many instances, not a single individual belonging to the established church. He was apprehensive that the new estimates which were to be made, would be attended with great uncertainty, especially as much scope must necessarily be given to the operation of conflicting interests. He was sure that the proposition which he (Mr. M. Fitzgerald) was going to recommend would materially contribute to the security and comfort of the established church. While he perfectly agreed with the right honourable gentleman in the principle of the arrangement which he proposed, and thought that it was highly desirable to include in it the tithe of agistment, he could not think the vote of the Irish parliament of the year 1735 a robbery of the clergy. Just before that vote, several claims had been set up by the, clergy to the tithe of agistment, although he believed no such tithe had actually
 499
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that having, year after year, declared in his place, that justice was not done to Ireland, he felt it to be his duty to express his great satisfaction at the complete change of disposition in that respect, which manisfested itself in the conduct of his majesty's present ministers. In thanking them for Ireland, he felt that he was thanking them for the empire; which the course now pursuing would render irresistible. His thanks were due to the whole of his majesty's government. They were due to the chancellor of the exchequer, for the kind and generous manner in which he had spoken of Ireland; they were due to the secretary of state, who had declared his wish to avoid all irritating subjects; and they were due to the other secretary of state, who had declared the determination of ministers to support the present government of Ireland. This last-mentioned declaration was calculated to do infinite good to Ireland. Having for years maintained in that House an angry opposition against government with respect to Irish affairs, he felt it his duty, now that he saw the anxiety which existed to do every thing that was right and proper, to give to government his warm approbation and support.
 Colonel Barry  was also anxious to express his warm approbation of the present measure.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerlad  said, that, according to his view of the measure, it was calculated to redeem all the promises which had been made by government on the subject.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, it was his opinion, that the surplus revenue of the country would be more beneficially applied, if
 502 bonâ fide
 Colonel Wood  said, if he did not in his conscience believe that a real sinking fund was most necessary for the interests of the country, he would not vote for the bill.
 Mr. Baring  said, that, with every respect which he might have for his hon. friend's talents and the ingenuity which marked the speech which he had just made, he must be allowed to say he had never listened to one which led to such—(not to say absurd—that term would savour of want of courtesy), but so singular a conclusion. To begin with the plan of pay-
 508 pro tanto 509 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, it was true that the government of America had borrowed 4,000,000 dollars, and that, by bringing capital from other countries, it had, in fact, improved its resources. It was also true, that the effect of the sinking fund was at present to raise prices against ourselves. But this was true of every sinking fund. The question was, had not the sinking fund reduced the annual charge? It certainly would do so if correctly applied. A real sinking fund, if properly appropriated, was a great good. To a fictitious sinking fund he had many objections. But there was a great difference between the two. A real sinking fund applied to pay off the debt, would raise the price of stocks, and enable us to borrow on better terms. Many members had no hopes that a real sinking
 506 l. 507
 Mr. Goulburn  said it was within the recollection of the House, that, during the last session, he had been repeatedly pressed by several
 495 496 497 vice versâ. 498
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, contended, that the repeal of taxes must always benefit the landed interest. By taking off taxes from the tenant, the parliament, in fact, gave so much to the landlord.
 Mr. Monck,  under the present circumstances of the country, contended, that a sinking fund was not only useless, but decidedly mischievous. The arguments
 505 l. 1., l.
 Mr. John Smith  believed it would have been impossible, without the aid of the sinking fund, to have raised the immense supplies that we had raised during the war. He thought, indeed, that even what was called the sham sinking fund, had been useful during the war, as it had tended to keep up the prices of stocks, and to support public credit. Whenever the funds had fallen, the commercial interest would be found to have suffered. He remembered the three per cents at one time as low as 47; and scarcely a merchant at the time knew one day whether he should be able to take up his acceptances the next. Recommending, in its fullest extent, economy and retrenchment, he should vote for the propositions of the chancellor of the exchequer.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the sinking fund had been attended with loss to the country. If it remained on its present footing, at the end of any given number of years, it would not be found to have reduced the national debt one farthing. The minister of the day would always apply the surplus in time of need, to any purpose but that for which it was intended. The chancellor of the exchequer had stated on a former night, that the debt, by means of the sinking fund, had been reduced 24 millions. To show that the statement was not correct, he called upon the House to attend to the following calculations:—The amount of unredeemed funded debt, 5th Jan. 1816, was 816,311,939 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. 504 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.; d. d. l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that when he had Made a statement on the subject of corporal punishment, last session, he was told, that no such thing ever took place in the army. The truth, however, had now come out; and it appeared that corporal punishment was inflicted to a great extent.
 Mr. Carew  expressed his satisfaction that the right hon. secretary had moved for leave to bring in the present bill. He held in his hand the resolutions of the grand jury of Wexford, in favour of a just and fair commutation of tithes, such as might secure the stability, dignity, and independence of the established church, and the general interests of the community. In those principles he fully concurred. He would never advocate a system which did not protect the interests of all parties. Provided the clergy performed those duties, for the performance of which, tithes and church property were originally appropriated, he would never consent to invade that property; but when he found a general complaint of the neglect and non-performance of those duties, he did say that such a system required amendment.
 Mr. Spring Rice  could not resist the temptation of congratulating Ireland on the prospect which was opened to her, by the conduct of government. What could present a more striking contrast than the present and the last session of parliament in that respect? The last session commenced with the suspension of the Habeas Corpus in Ireland, which was followed by the Insurrection act. The present session was distinguished by measures of conciliation and wisdom. The right hon. secretary had last night given notice of a measure, the tendency of which would be to unite all classes of the community in Ireland. To-night he had brought forward a measure, which would put an end to nearly all the grievous and oppressive practices of the tithe system. Such benefits to Ireland would not be thrown away, but would produce a rich harvest of gratitude and attachment. The only difficulty which he contemplated in the bill, related to the complexity of the machinery. The Protestant population were, in some parts of Ireland, so reduced by circumstances, that he feared materials
 501
 Mr. W. Smith  was convinced, that the country at large would be much more benefitted by the further diminution of its burthens, than it would be by the paying off of a comparatively small part of the national debt, for the period during which peace might continue.
 Sir H. Parnell  wished to know, on what principle of valuation the composition was to be made, whether the full tenth, the value in the proctor's books, or the actual value of the tithes received? To the first he should altogether object. He hoped that, in the progress of the bill, the regulations would be made somewhat more compulsory. He wished to secure the total abolition of tithes, and not to allow any parish to continue them. If the select vestries were to be composed only of persons who paid large sums for tithes, now that pasture lands were to be made liable, it would be the interest of the vestries in grazing districts, to preserve the present system of tithes, by which their own lands would be free, and the burden left upon the poor tillage cottiers and farmers. He thought the measure would prove an effectual remedy for the evil of tithes. It would wholly do away with the annual valuation of proctors, and the oppressive collection by proctors and tithe farmers. By combining the principle of an acreable tax and a commutation for land, it had the advantages of both plans. In respect to giving land, he thought that regulation the best part of the measure, and that the commutation of land for tithe might be accomplished without any loss to the public. The thanks of the public were due to the right hon. gentleman, and the noble marquis at the head of the Irish government, for this important measure. It would put an end to a system of great grievance and oppression, and contribute essentially to secure the tranquillity of Ireland.
 Sir J. Shelley  did not think he should be exorbitant, when he asked the chancellor of the exchequer to repeal two millions more taxes, in addition to the two millions of which he had already given notice. A surplus of three millions for a sinking fund, or to meet possible contingencies, would then be preserved.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, that the noble lord had made very light of the charges which had been preferred against certain individuals in col. Allen's regiment. One of these was an accusation against a soldier for not levelling his piece properly. Assuredly, it was of some importance, that soldiers should know how to use their arms effectively. It was not an easy matter to teach them to do so. He recollected, when a sergeant of marines was drilling a number of men, so badly did they point their pieces, that he declared he would stand their fire for a halfpenny a shot, and was confident he should make a fortune by it. Many of those raw soldiers appeared more anxious to direct their muskets against Jupiter or Saturn than against the enemy. Was drunkenness a light crime? Was it fit, ting that a soldier who thus misconducted himself, should not be punished? When no impression could be made on a man's reason, it was necessary sometimes to make an impression on his back. Gentlemen seemed to be extremely hostile to the system of corporal punishment. If it were abolished in the army, he supposed it would also be abolished in the navy. He was not, however, prepared to say, that corporal punishment should be discontinued in the navy; and he hoped, if its entire abolition were attempted, that it would be resisted. Much blame had been imputed to colonel Allen; but why should he alone be selected for censure? Was there no other officer in the regiment who concurred in his proceedings?
 Sir R. Wilson  said, that corporal punishment was wholly unnecessary in the army. It was liable to great abuse, and ought to be put an end to. He was sorry that the commander-in-chief did not avail himself of the opportunity which this court-martial afforded him, of stating his disapproval of the infliction of corporal punishment.
 Sir J. Newport  was persuaded, that the measures proposed could not fail to do great good. He was of opinion, that the valuation should be made, not on claims and demands, but on receipts. It was extremely satisfactory to him, that the burthen of tithes was to be more equally borne than hitherto. The bill, he must say, promised most fairly. That it was in some degree complicated in its details, was, in a great measure, attributable to
 500
 Lord Palmerston  said, that on general principles, any interference with that branch of the prerogative which related to the appointment and removal of the officers of the army, was totally inexpedient. Of all the privileges of the crown, none was more ancient, and none had been of more uninterrupted exercise, than that of dismissing officers, whether they had been tried or not, or whether any reason was or was not assigned for their dismissal. It was a power held, not for the benefit of the crown, but for the maintenance of the rights and liberties of the people. He would argue, that, upon general principles, this was not a case which called for the interference of the House. He might go farther, and state, that there were circumstances connected with it which afforded much stronger ground for refusing any parliamentary interposition. Col. Allen had been tried on three distinct charges, on all of which be was found guilty. On two of those charges, the verdict was accompanied by a particular qualification. On the third charge, he was found guilty, without any qualification. The noble lord adverted specifically to these charges, and to the frequency, and severity of punishments in the regiment which col. Allen commanded. In no very long interval, 79 soldiers had been flogged, and 4,817 lashes had been inflicted. General Bailey had issued an order, that no inflictions of punishment should be carried into execu-
 492 493
 Sir T. Lethbridge  concurred in the general principle of the resolution; although he could not go the length of supposing, that the military estimates could be reduced, consistently with the honour and safety of the country, to the standard of 1792. He thought the reduction made in the salaries of public men during the last session, was by no means sufficient. They appeared to him to be remunerated beyond what the country could well spare. Every measure of reduction and economy should be adopted, that could be resorted to with safety.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he should propose that the chairman should ask for leave to bring in a bill, concerning the disposition of certain property belonging to his majesty. By the statute of queen Anne, and several other acts, the power of the crown to alienate real property was restricted. In 1799 another act was passed, which removed those restrictions, as respected real property that might be considered as the private property of his majesty. That act took away such restrictions as regarded all real property purchased out of the privy purse, all real property purchased with any monies not appropriated to the public service, or with monies received by the crown from any person or persons whatever, except-
 510 jure coronœ
 Mr. Bernal  said, the establishment had existed for so great a length of time, that the whole body of our cavalry must be sufficiently instructed. It would be very satisfactory, if the noble lord would give any intimation, when, in his opinion, the establishment might cease without detriment to the public service.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  bore testimony to the valuable services rendered by this constitutional force.
 Mr. F. Palmer  thought there would be less objection to the yeomanry corps, if they served, as formerly, without any expense to the country. As to the usefulness of the force, he must venture to doubt. He had, some time ago, gone to a review of what was considered quite a crack corps: be alluded to the Buckinghamshire corps. Their discipline was admired, and they were considered as being altogether well equipped. They were mounted, however, not very advantageously. One man rode a pony, while the next to him rode a horse of 16 hands high. The horses were of all sizes. He left the House to judge what sort of a charge could be expected from such a body of troops. Many of the members of these corps enlisted to save the horse-tax.
 Mr. J. Bench  defended the Wiltshire yeomanry, among whom there was not a member who did not ride his own horse. He approved of the grant, because the yeomanry corps were a constitutional force. If any thing would justify the reduction of the regular army, it was the efficiency of these regiments, which were never used as a political engine against the people, and had been most useful in quelling civil riots. Because he disliked the existence of a regular standing army, he approved of an efficient yeomanry force, which was composed, in the essential import of the words, of the people of England.
 Mr. Freemantle,  as commanding officer of a regiment of the Bucks yeomanry, could not sit still and hear that regiment treated so slightingly. He would maintain, that a corps was never turned out in more perfect discipline. He thought the country was not very grievously taxed in paying 3 l.
 Mr. H. Sumner  did not believe that the learned gentleman expressed the feelings of the majority of this country, when he advocated the propriety of our interfering in the approaching war. The learned gentleman had stigmatized as mad, the conduct of France in attacking Spain. He would allow it to be mad; but he asserted, that this
 518
 Mr. Jones  denied that, with a military establishment, reduced below what it now was, we could keep the colonies which we had conquered in the last war. As to the public officers, he thought them rather underpaid than overpaid. He likewise contended, that reduction and economy had been carried as far as was consistent with the honour and safety of the country.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that a more correct and proper resolution had never been proposed to the House. The six millions which they were now called upon to vote for the army, did not contain all the items of expenditure. There was one million for the extraordinaries, half a million for the yeomanry, and a great expenditure for the commissariat and barrack department. He had expected to find a much larger reduction in the estimates than had absolutely taken place, now that the government had changed its policy, and withdrawn itself from the holy alliance.
 Mr. Hume  did not think that, under the present circumstances of the country, the number of troops embodied was too great. He objected, however, to the number of foot-guards and cavalry, which now amounted to 14,000 men. Any person, who looked at the state of this species of force in 1792, must be astonished at its amazing increase.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the charge for the recruiting service, which was 46,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what was the nature of the distinction meant to be taken between property possessed by him as private property acquired as a subject? The act of 39 Geo. 3 directed, that the property should be consigned to trustees, that is should not go to the king at all, but become the property of the public: The statute of 1 Anne, too, prevented the king from acquiring any property. He had asked, last session, if the late king had made any will? and had been answered, that he had not. So that in this case the property should revert to the public; and the landed property had accordingly been taken under the care of the commissioners of woods and forests. He wished to know whether the present measure was to relate to the property which the king had inherited from his late majesty.
 Mr. Hume  complained, that no less than five clerks and a paymaster were employed at Chatham to pay a few hundred men. He also complained of the large expense of the riding establishment; to him it appeared utterly useless.
 Mr. Hume  thought that these corps ought to have public spirit enough to serve without any allowance; especially
 520
 Captain O'Grady  could not see why those who had received instructions in the riding establishment could not communicate their knowledge to the regiments to which they belonged, unless they were like dancing dogs, who were capable of being taught, but incapable of teaching. There was not the slightest ground for keeping up this establishment.
 Mr. Creevey  said, he was anxious to offer a few words, before they went into a committee for the purpose of voting away more than six millions of money, in a House certainly the thinnest that he had seen this session. And first, he begged to remind the House of a few facts, which really it at present appeared to have no notion of; namely, that the country was at that moment afflicted with a great and overwhelming calamity, called agricultural distress: that thousands upon thousands, under the pressure of this evil, were daily falling from comparative opulence to beggary and ruin; that an actual revolution was going on among a very great and numerous body in this country. He begged to remind the House also, that from every county of England the petitions of the people had been repeatedly presented to parliament, for the adoption of measures of retrenchment and economy; that they had been urging the necessity of a reduction of salaries of all kinds, that had been augmented during the late depreciation of the currency; and that they bad, been calling for the abolition of all useless offices. Nothing could be of a more serious nature than these requests and petitions; and no time more fitting for their consideration than when the House were going, in a committee of supply, to vote away six millions for the supply of the army; more especially if they recurred to the amount of the army estimates in 1792, and contrasted with it this estimate, to which there would be to be added, no doubt, for army extraordinaries about one million more. It was quite impossible to suppose, that great reductions might not be effected in this, as well as in all other departments of the public expenditure, or that government could not effect considerable reductions in all salaries, the amount of which had been augmented during the late depreciation of our currency. He knew very well that government had done so, with respect to the lower order of officers; namely, the unfortunate clerks, whose salaries they had cut down: but the sinecures, and
 512 l. s. d. l.;
 Mr. Denman  said, it appeared to him, that all the votes on which the committee was likely to be engaged that evening,
 515 516 517
 Mr. Peel  replied, that what property the king held from his late majesty, was held  jure coronœ. 511
 Sir W. de Crespigny  also advocated the propriety of our observing a strict neutrality.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that from the charge for the recruiting service was to be deducted 14,000 l. 519
 Lord Palmerston  said, it was not his intention to occupy much of the attention of the House, because the difference between the estimates of this year and those of the last was very trifling. The amount of force had not been varied, except by a small addition of two companies in the West Indies; and the amount of charge was 18,000 l. l. l. l, l. 514 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Lord Palmerston  having moved the order of the day for going into a committee of Supply,
 Lord Palmerston  thought, that if the hon. mover had any objections to urge against the estimates, it would be more consistent with the usages of the House to discuss them in the committee.
 Lord Palmerston  thought that 3 l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the five clerks and the paymaster were necessary, in consequence of the complicated nature of the accounts. As to the riding establishment, no part of our military system was more valuable. It was extremely important, that the system of riding throughout the army should be uniform. Even if that establishment were broken up, the pay of the officers employed in it would remain.
 Lord Palmerston  said, it was not sufficient to teach one or two individuals of a regiment, in order that they might communicate their knowledge to others. Unless the roughriders were constantly kept up to a certain point of discipline, the regiments soon relapsed into their old habits. He should propose the maintenance of the establishment, as long as it appeared to him to be essential to the public service. Whenever it ceased to be so, he would propose its reduction.
 Colonel Davies  said, that if he did not at present offer any opposition to the amount of an estimate which, under ordinary circumstances, he should think excessive, it was because he feared that war was almost inevitable, not merely between
 522
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, he thought the present establishment totally disproportionate to the state of the country. If affairs on the continent of Europe should experience a favourable change, he would bring forward a motion for the reduction of that establishment. l. s. d.
 Mr. Bennet  intimated that Mr. Hume had not used the expression.
 Mr. Plunkett  regretted that any thing should have passed calculated to disturb that conciliatory spirit in which the House had been left, upon this subject, at the conclusion of a former debate. He had asked, whether certain facts had not come officially before him, showing that the yeomanry corps in Ireland had, in many instances, contributed to disturb the public peace? He distinctly answered, that no such instances had come before him, and he did not believe the fact. He felt it his duty to say, that, generally speaking, no such complaints had been preferred against them; and that they had been found extremely useful in preserving the peace of the country. At the same time, he could not but regret that so few Homan Catholics were enrolled in that body; and he regretted to hear it asserted, that that fact was to be attributed to their own fault. He remembered well the first establishment of those corps in Ireland. He had the honour of being amongst the first by whom their institution had been suggested. The suggestion was made at his house, in the year 1796; and an offer was made to the government by the profession to which he belonged, of their services. But he would state, as a fact, that the rebellion, to put down which this aid had been offered, was hatched and planned and carried on at that
 531
 Mr. Secretary Peel  objected to the amendment, both on the ground of conciliation and of economy, and regretted that it had been brought forward. The hon. gentleman had been grossly imposed upon. The person who had informed the hon. gentleman, could only have had mischief in view. If the motion were not withdrawn, he trusted it would be rejected by a signal majority.
 Mr. Bennet  supported the amendment, as tending to promote union in Ireland, and break down that system of exclusion which was in existence.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought, that the case stated by the hon. member was greatly exaggerated. It was true, that all houses rated at 5 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not think there was the slightest foundation for the application. His hon. and learned friend had made some facetious allusion to the college cook and butler. Every one knew that there were such officers; but he had never yet heard of a college groom. If there were ten horses, and only one groom, it was clear, that the horses must be very ill groomed; but that was no reason why each of the persons who employed a groom, should not pay the tax, as well as those whose horses were more efficiently attended to.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to accede to the wish of the hon. member, but feared the measure would not be productive of much benefit.
 Mr. Wetherell  said, he had a representation to make on behalf of the learned body whom he had the honour to represent. Some of the members of the colleges kept horses, and, whereas one groom was frequently enough for ten horses, by a sort of financial arithmetic, this solitary groom was multiplied into as many grooms as there were horses. It would be no very rational method of computation, to say, that because one cook or one butler could serve a hundred guests, therefore each guest ought to pay for one cook and one butler. This tax did not, in point of fact, fall upon the graduates, because those persons kept their horses without the college. It was not so much for its amount, as for the principle which it involved, that he wished to see it repealed.
 Mr. Dawson,  said, his hon. friend was incorrect in stating, that the police establishments introduced Orangeism into the south of Ireland. As a proof of the contrary, the following lines had been, for ages, inscribed on the gates of Bandon:—
 "Turk, Jew, or Atheist May enter here, but not a Papist." 530
 General Hart  bore testimony to the good conduct of the yeomanry corps, and denied that the Catholics were excluded from them.
 Mr. Bright  thought it very advisable to take off the house and window tax from the poorer classes. It was a tax very grievous in its operation on those classes, and felt most in the close and unhealthy quarters of great towns. The
 533
 Mr. Goulburn  insisted, that the services of the Irish yeomanry corps had been productive of the greatest benefits. Was it right, then, to disband them in the summary manner that was now proposed?
 Mr. Abercromby  contended, that the amendment did not go the length of dis-
 532
 Mr. Curwen  complained of the tax on houses rated under 5 l. l.,
 Mr. Curwen  hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would consent to place English cottagers on the same footing as
 534
 Mr. Hume  then withdrew his amendment.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the act for keeping up the volunteer corps in Ireland would expire in April. He wished the House to consider how far it might be desirable not to renew it. When originally embodied, they consisted of Catholics and Protestants indiscriminately, and that they had been of great use nobody could deny. But, in the lapse of time, various abuses had crept into those corps, by which they had been rendered no longer equal to the duties which they formerly performed. Instead of being serviceable in maintaining the public peace, they had lately been the cause of more public disturbances than any other set of men. The right hon. secretary (Mr. Peel) had admitted, on a former evening, that the greater part of the yeomanry in the north of Ireland were Orangemen. He had also expressed his disapprobation of secret oaths. Now, if the right hon. secretary brought in his bill to prevent such secret oaths from being administered in Ireland, in what situation would he find himself as to the Orangemen, who formed so large a part of these volunteer corps? Was it possible for him to undo oaths already taken? Was it fitting that
 524 l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether there was any chance that the business of the arrear department of the noble lord's office would ever be settled? The promise held out in the first instance was, that a very short space of time would suffice for the completion of that business, Cases of peculiar hardship had arisen out of this institution. Officers, whose accounts were disputed, had been obliged to remain for years without pay, and, it; some cases, to refund, after extraordinary lapses of time, sums, of their liability to pay which they could have formed no conception. He thought it was not right to allow the accounts of individuals to run on for five and twenty years, and then to call on them, or their representatives, to make good deficiencies. He entreated the noble lord to put an end to this establishment, which cost the country 15,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to offer a few observations before the report was received. It would be remembered, that his majesty, in the late speech from the throne, when speaking of the estimates for the current year, had said, that they were prepared with every attention to economy, and that the total expenditure would be found materially below that for the last year. Experience had taught him to place little confidence in the promises held out in these speeches from the throne; and, upon the present occasion, a comparison of the proposed estimates with those of last year, justified his suspicions. The army estimates for last year amounted to 6,103,068 l. l. l. l. l., l.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he was as strongly opposed as any man could be to the principles upon which the Orange societies were founded; but he knew that they comprised among their members some of the most honourable men in the country, whose power of utility was only cramped by their party ties. That observation applied both to the sworn Orangemen and to those who, like the right hon. baronet, had taken the infection in the natural way. That right hon. baronet seemed to think, that the oath was the only objectionable circumstance connected with the Orange associations. He disclaimed the oath, but he declared that he would cherish the spirit of Orangeism. The right hon. baronet must know, that it was not the oath alone which rendered those societies bad. The ceremony of
 529 l.
 Mr. T. Wilson  heartily concurred in the remarks of the hon. gentleman. Cases
 523
 Sir George Hill  said, he could not have anticipated that he should have had to express obligation on any subject to the member for Aberdeen, yet he now offered him his thanks for having given him an opportunity of refuting the acrimonious, malignant, and unfounded aspersions which he had cast upon the yeomanry corps of Ireland, and particularly against the Londonderry yeomanry, which the hon. member had ventured to assert were raised for the purposes of disturbance. Now, he desired he would state from what source he had presumed to make such an assertion.
 Sir G. Hill  resumed. He maintained, that when any hon. member aspersed a body of men who had performed such signal services to their country, it was his duty to give up the source of his offensive statements. He suspected he knew the source from whence they came. He utterly denied that such a qualification was required for becoming a member of a yeomanry corps as that he should have previously entered into the Orange association. The oath of allegiance in Ireland, as in England, was the only measure of qualification required; and if such corps were considered essential to the peace of this country, how much more necessary must they be to the preservation of the peace of Ireland. It had been stated, and truly stated, on an important occasion November last, that in three provinces out of four in Ireland,
 526 527 528
 Sir John Brydges  said, he did not know the source whence the hon. member had derived his information, but
 525
 Sir J. Newport  said, he had always been of opinion, that that kind of local force which might be so desirable for the protection of England, was not the best calculated for the preservation of the peace in Ireland; because there would be carried into it all those prejudices and party feelings, the effect of which it ought to be the object of such force to repress.
 Lord Palmerston  said, he perfectly concurred in what had been said, as to the hardship of many of the cases, and had felt himself at liberty to relax very considerably that rigour which be would always apply to the examination of recent accounts. When, however, it did appear on the face of an officer's accounts, that he had received a sum of money which he did not account for, he (lord P.) could not think it a hard proceeding to call on such an individual for his balance. From 122 accounts of agents, and 943 accounts of paymasters, there had been struck off the sum of 45,245 l. l. l. l. s. d.
 Lord Palmerston  said, it might be very proper for the House to express an opinion upon this subject, when it should have seen all the estimates; but before it had seen the charges for all the different heads of service, he thought that the expression of such an opinion would be at least premature. Last session he had informed the House, that, should the same establishments be kept up as was then provided for, the charge for the present year would be increased on various accounts, by 50,000 l. l. l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the subject of the sinking fund. In the first place, he would address his observations to that part of the subject which had been justly designated as the sham sinking fund. He hoped that the system which was abolished in 1819 would never be renewed; but he was afraid, that the indirect favour which the hon. member for Taunton had shown it, might tend to its revival. He would describe the operation of the sham sinking fund. It would be recollected that, in the original act of 1786, Mr. Fox had introduced a clause, the object of which was to allow the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt to apply the whole or part of the sinking fund money to the subscription for any loans. This he considered a most wise and provident clause; but, unfortunately, from the year 1793 to 1819, ministers had not acted upon that clause, but instead of that, had induced the House to believe, that it would be for the advantage of the in exchange for the money obtained from the loan contractors, they gave an article called three percents, and then sent commissioners and brokers into the market, who invested that identical money so received in the purchase of 3 percent stock. Such was the advantageous plan on which ministers had acted! He had addressed the House in 1814 on the subject, with the view of inducing the chancellor of the exchequer to change his plan, and in 1819, the system were innoxious, he would not quarrel with it; but it was capable of demonstration, that it had cost the country, during the four last loaus of the late war, a sum equal to a perpetual annuity of 268,000 l. l. 535 l. l. l. l. l. 536
 Mr. Ricardo  highly approved of his hon. friend's plan, which, by taking the sinking fund out of the hands of ministers, would do away his great objection to it; namely, its liability to be perverted from the purpose for which it was originally intended. His hon. friend's proposition of converting what were at present permanent into determinable annuities, appeared to him to be deserving the serious attention of the House; and he must say, that he did not think his hon. friend did justice to his own plan, in stating, that it would liquidate the existing debt in 45 years; for the calculation on which he had proceeded was made when the 3 per cents were only at 80. The House might easily conceive how beneficially public credit would be affected, if a real sinking fund were thus continually operating over the whole extent of the debt. From the adoption of such a plan, ministers, in the event of any occurrence requiring an increased expenditure, would not, as heretofore, be enabled to despoil a fund, which ought to be sacredly appropriated to another purpose; but must come down to parliament, and otherwise provide for the public exigencies. While he was on his legs, he would say a few words on what an hon. friend had been pleased to call his "crotchet" for reducing the national debt by a general contribution of capital. His (Mr. R.'s) proposition would merely carry further the principle of the income tax. His hon. friend was quite deceived, if he supposed that he ever contemplated the possibility of effecting the object he had described at once. On the contrary, the operation might be extended by numerous instalments over a period of two, three, six, or twelve months. And when the immense benefits which would result from its adoption were considered, he could not think it so Utopian a scheme
 539
 Mr. J. Martin  said, it would not be in the power of ministers to lay their hands upon any sinking fund which might be established, without the concurrence of parliament.
 Mr. Monck  thought the best way would be, to abolish the sinking fund, and apply the surplus revenue to the remission of taxes.
 Mr. John Smith  thought it would be readily admitted, that, in the course of the long war in which we had been engaged, great difficulties had been sometimes experienced by the government in raising money upon the public securities. Now, whenever loans were to be borrowed, the greater the facilities of borrowing, the better were the terms. So far, although the sinking fund might have failed to be effectual in the discharge of debt, it would be granted that it had been very efficient. He was convinced, that, without the services of the sinking fund, this country could not have gone on for two years longer in its system of raising money He would give the bill his warmest approbation.
 Mr. Hume  said, they had had ample experience of the readiness with which the House assented to any proposal of ministers to interfere with the sinking fund. They had already voted away 324,000,000 l.
 Sir H. Parnell,  while he admitted the accuracy of the statements of the hon. member for Portarlington (Mr. Ricardo), on former discussions respecting the old sinking fund, could not agree with him in his conclusion, that there ought not to be any new sinking fund. The objections which he had to this measure might be removed by placing it on a better principle. The danger of a new sinking fund being misapplied by ministers, as the last one had been, might be obviated by giving it effect through the medium of long annuities, determinable in a fixed number of years. If one per cent was given to the holders of perpetual annuities for transferring their annuities for ever into annuities for years, each million of sinking fund per annum would extinguish 100 millions of debt. if the 3 per cents were at 80, one per cent applied in this way would pay 100 l. 537 538
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, the resolutions which he meant to move were of such great importance to the empire generally, that he should be sorry if a single day were lost in bringing before the House and the country the exact state of the landed interest. Having received the most decided assurance from ministers, that it was not their intention to originate any measures, having for their object the relief of so large a class of society, he could not, consistently with his ideas of duty, consent to put off his motion, even for one day beyond the time already specified. He was determined to persevere.
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, that as the act of last year had produced no good effect, he was entitled to ask, whether government had any intention to bring in another measure?
 The Solicitor-General  said, he could not think of abandoning the principle of the measure; but he would listen with attention to any suggestion that might be thrown out. There was one point in which it was, perhaps, possible to make an improvement: he alluded to the case of persons who caused themselves to be collusively arrested, in order to take the benefit of the act. Perhaps it would be proper to introduce a clause into the bill, to prevent such persons from taking the benefit of the act. He did not, however, think that any great good could result from such an alteration. The individual who contrived to get deeply in debt, if not arrested by a friend, was certain of being arrested by a real creditor. Let it not be supposed, because frauds were committed under this act, that those whose business it was to watch over measures of that nature, had neglected their duty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would state, as distinctly as he could, how it was that he considered himself entitled to assume, that there was an actual surplus of five millions, applicable to the reduction of the debt. He took it, that after the repeal of the 2,200,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 546 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l., l. bonâ fide l. l. l. 547 l. l.
 Colonel Davies  thought that the plan was peculiarly ill-advised at the present moment, when the continent was about to be convulsed by a war, in which, he believed, we could not avoid taking a part. He suggested, that a considerable reduction of the amount of debt might be effected, by converting the 3, the 3½, and the 4 per cent stocks into a 5 per cent stock, not redeemable for a certain number of years.
 Mr. Maberly  could not see how the right hon. gentleman could object to the amendment; for it was clear, that if they supported a sinking fund greater than the actual surplus of revenue, it could only be done by increasing the unfunded debt.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  complained, that, with respect to all questions which affected the morals, the honour, and the character of the people, ministers remained perfectly inactive. When an alteration was called for in the Insolvent Debtors'
 541
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the general charges which the hon. member had made against government he would meet with as general a denial. If the hon. member inquired how ministers were occupied from morning till night, he would not have hazarded his charge of apathy and supineness. The attorney-general had last session introduced a bill for the amendment of the Insolvent Debtors' act; and surely that learned gentleman should not be called on to sacrifice a principle of which he approved, for the purpose of adopting any view which the hon. member might entertain. The solicitor-general had just stated, that he would listen to any suggestion that might be thrown out. Was it possible for any man to go farther? As to the game laws, the hon. member for Yorkshire had expressed a wish that an inquiry into those laws should take place. And what answer had he received? that to such an inquiry he (Mr. Peel) would not only not object, but would lend his best assistance.
 Lord Cranborne  rose to bring forward his motion for the appointment of a select committee to take into consideration the game laws. As the object of it was solely to acquire information respecting the operation of those laws, he trusted it would encounter no opposition. His own opinion of their tendency to deteriorate the morals and deprave the habits of the lower classes, had been unhappily strengthened by the number of committals for violations of their provisions during the past year. They had amounted to 1,467, of which 372 had taken place in the last month of the year. He would move, "That a Select Committee be appointed to take into consideration the Laws relating to Game, and report their Observations thereupon to the House."
 Sir J. Sebright  implored the House to take the subject into their most serious consideration. He conjured them to do so, not upon any speculative opinion of his own; but upon his actual knowledge,
 542
 Mr. Secretary Peel  did not think that the committals under the game laws had been at all increased by the distress of agriculture. He agreed, however, that it was desirable to have correct accounts of the number of committals in each year; but even should it appear that the number had materially diminished, that would not, in his opinion, be an argument, against the appointment of a committee. He by no means pledged himself to the
 543
 Mr. N. Colburne  was persuaded, that the peace and happiness of the lower classes were materially affected by the game laws. At the same time, he thought that legalising the sale of game would have a tendency to increase, rather than to diminish the evil.
 Colonel Wood  was glad to see a more liberal feeling pervade the House, than when the same subject was last before them. He thought the thanks of the country were due to his noble friend for calling their attention to this important subject.
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that great inconveniencies had arisen in the merchant service, from the existing regulations respecting apprentices. In some vessels, particularly those in the West India trade, a certain number of apprentices were required to be taken; while in the vessels in other trades no such obligation existed. Now, this might be an advantage or a disadvantage, according to circumstance. In peace, it would be a disadvantage to be obliged to have a certain number of apprentices, when for nearly the same expense the same number, of able seamen might be had. In war, it would be an advantage, when able seamen were difficult to be got. One object of his bill would be to make the advantages equal in all merchant ships; and this he proposed to effect by a clause, that every merchant vessel in every trade should have an equal number of apprentices, in proportion to her tonnage. He also proposed to give to apprentices greater protection against impressment. At present those of 17 years of age were liable to be impressed after three years service. He proposed that apprentices should not be liable to be impressed under the age of 21. Another subject which called for the interference of the House was, the desertion of apprentices from merchant ships. It was a common practice to give to seamen on outward bound voyages, two or three months wages' in advance, with the understanding that they were engaged to the ship out and home. In cases of desertion at fo-
 552
 Mr. Bernal  was glad to see the subject taken up by the right hon. gentleman. He would suggest to him the propriety of taking into consideration the whole state of our laws regarding merchant seamen, and of forming out of them one clear and consistent code. By so doing, he would confer an essential benefit on the shipping, interest of the country.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that the measure had the support of the shipping interest.
 Mr. Ricardo  wished to know whether the sailors were friendly to the measure. He had no doubt that their employers were so; because they would be enabled to lower the rate of wages by increasing the number of apprentices. He thought the navy would not receive that benefit from it, which seemed to be anticipated. Our sailors would seek employment in the merchant service of other countries, if the rate of wages was unduly lowered in their own. Should that be the case, where would gentlemen find that nursery for the navy, of which they now talked so largely?
 Mr. Curteis,  on presenting a petition from Hadleigh, respecting the Agricultural Distress, expressed a wish, that an hon. baronet who had given notice of a motion for the 20th instant, on the subject, would postpone it, as many members who were favourable to the motion would be absent from town.
 Mr. Gipps  was anxious to have a return of the number of convictions under the game laws for some years past. By such a return, it would be seen whether the amount was connected with the pressure of agricultural distress. He was persuaded that latterly these convictions had decreased.
 Mr. Tierney  rose, not to oppose the motion, but in consequence of his wish distinctly to understand what it was that the House were now called upon to pass. He wished to know what was the exact bearing of the present bill. It professed to be framed on the resolution of the House, of the 8th June, 1819, that for the better maintenance of the public credit, by the progressive reduction of the national debt, it was necessary that there should be a clear surplus of the income of the country, beyond the expenditure of 5,000,000 l. 544 545
 Mr. Bright  was very sorry to hear that the learned gentleman despaired of making any great improvement in the measure. What he and others complained of was, that no return of assets had yet been made. It appeared that the expenses of the court swallowed up all the debtor's property. If the act could not be amended, it was better that there should be no permanent law on the subject; for, as it now stood, the fraudulent had a manifest advantage over the honest debtor.
 Mr. Curwen  thought, that to the existence of these odious laws a vast proportion of the offences which came before the judges at the assizes was to be attributed. Perhaps the only mode of altogether doing away with poaching, would be to suffer game to come legally into the market. This, he thought, might be permitted, without too much encroaching on the pleasures of gentlemen who resided in the country. The effect of the game laws was to cast an odium on every gentleman who endeavoured to protect the game on his estate.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the resolution of June, 1819, which declared, "that it was absolutely necessary there should be a clear surplus of the income of the country beyond the expenditure of not less than 5,000,000 l. l. l. 548 l. l. l. l.,
 Mr. Hume  hoped the right hon. gentleman would not hurry the bill through the House, on account of its vast importance.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, that the protection which this bill would give to apprentices until they reached the age of 21, would create for the country a nursery of active and able seamen at the least possible expense.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that complaints against the existing law were heard in every part of the country.
 Sir F. Blake  considered the sinking fund, as far as regarded the extinction of the national debt, a mere fallacy. Its operation might be compared to the taking of a bucket of water from a great reservoir which was abundantly supplied from the fountain-head. The country had gone on paying off, as it was called, the national debt for a number of years, and what had been the result? The debt had been augmented to four times its original amount. The new chancellor of the exchequer had come down to the House to make them a present of a new sinking fund; but the new sinking fund was grafted on the parent stock, and possessed all the faults of its original. The new chancellor of the exchequer had boasted of the benefits that would result from his scheme; but, "timeo Danaos, et dona ferentes." The right hon. gentleman said, that he had a sinking; fund of 5,000,000 l. l. l.
 Sir H. Parnell  wished to have a clause inserted in the bill, to enable the commissioners of the sinking fund to grant annuities for years, to such persons as might propose to transfer into a stock of this description, 3 per cent or other stocks now vested in annuities for ever. He recommended this mode of applying a sinking fund as preferable to the plan provided by the bill; because it would place it out of the reach of the government, and thus secure its being applied to the intended purpose of redeeming the national debt; for if the sinking fund were thus arranged, it would be absorbed in the annuity, and would not be available for any other object. The following was the way in which it would operate in redeeming debt. Supposing 3 per cent stock to be at 75 l. l. l. l. 549 l. l. l. l. l. l. 550 l.
 Sir J. Shelley  was of opinion, that the demoralization of the lower agricultural classes was not so much owing to the game laws, as to the distress which prevailed among them, and the difficulty of their procuring adequate subsistence.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he should be extremely sorry to abandon the principle on which the law stood; but there were many provisions, by the introduction of which the situation of the creditor might be greatly ameliorated. The fraudulent debtor had, at present, too many facilities for the disposal of his property.
 Colonel Davies  said, that in rising to move an instruction to the committee to insert a clause in the bill to prevent, in future, the dismissal of officers of the army without trial by a court-martial, or the increasing the severity of any punishment awarded by the sentence of such court; he might, perhaps, in consideration of the difficulty of the subject, be pardoned, were he to intreat the indulgence of the House. But as he had voluntarily undertaken the task, as neither official duties nor imperative circumstances had forced it upon him, he was aware that he had no claim to any thing beyond a patient and a candid hearing. He should have, at the outset, to combat strongly formed opinions, not only on the part of those who might be considered his political opponents, but were among that number on whose support, upon ordinary occasions, he might confidently rely. In opposition to any arguments he could use, would be urged long established custom, an uninterrupted prescription of a century and a half; and he should be held up to reprobation as a daring innovator, whose councils, if followed, would make a breach in the just prerogatives of the crown, and tend to subvert the discipline of the army. 554 555 556 557 per se, 558 pro re natâ, 559 in terrorem, 560 561 562 563 564 565 566
 Mr. Hutchinson  maintained, that the power of dismissing officers without previously bringing them to trial, was a prerogative which the king ought not to possess. He believed that the late emperor of France, and he was certain that the present king of that country did not possess that power. There had been instances recently of distinguished French officers being tried for state offences, and yet retaining their rank. The king of France could refrain from employing military officers, but he could not dismiss them. That could only be done by the sentence of a court-martial. He believed that not even the most despotic governments possessed the power which was said to be vested in the crown of England. He agreed with the noble lord, that the prerogative which was claimed for the king of England ought to be, and generally was, exercised for the interests of the people, and in support of the dignity of the crown: but, there were instances in which great injustice would have been prevented, if officers had been afforded an opportunity of defending themselves before a court-martial. The case of his dear and valued friend (sir R. Wilson) was one of those instances. If that distinguished officer, covered as he was with the honourable rewards which he had earned in so many bloody contests, had been tried
 571
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he had now, for the first time, heard it asserted in that House or elsewhere, that the king of Eng-
 573
 Colonel Davies  proceeded to reply to the observations of the noble lord made in the former stage of the bill. He contended, that the 13th and 14th of Charles 2nd had nothing to do with the question. If the crown possessed this mighty prerogative, what was the use of passing the Mutiny bill in such a hurry, or what was the use of passing it at all?
 Mr. Wynn  considered it irregular for any member to reply directly, in one stage of a bill, to the observations of another member, made in a former stage.
 The Chairman  said, it was not strictly regular to reply to a speech made in a former stage; but he thought the hon. member had a clear right to go again into arguments on the general measure.
 Colonel Davies  resumed, and went on to contend, that, by the 37th section of the bill, it was laid down that all officers must be tried by a court-martial for any offence imputed to them, and that dismissal by the crown without such trial was against the spirit and letter of the act referred to.
 Sir. F. Ommaney  said, he was satisfied that, at the present crisis, four lords of the Admiralty were too few, and should move an addition to the present vote of 1,000 l., l.
 The Chairman  apprehended, that it was impossible to increase the amount of the estimate.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  begged to remind the House, that they were now called upon to give their last vote for this most important bill. It was necessary for them, however, to pause. The question for them to consider was—Would they, or would they not, reduce taxation? Would they, or would they not, comply with the urgent petitions from all parts of the kingdom, calling on them to reduce taxes to their minimum, and to confine their amount to the positive wants of the country? He objected to the passing of the bill on two grounds: the first, that there was no necessity for a sinking fund; the other, that the proposed plan was not likely to effect its objects. Ever since the demise of Mr. Pitt, there had been the most violent departures from the original principle of the sinking fund. It was because the scheme of an hon. friend of his (sir H. Parnell) went to place any sinking fund that might be established out of the control of ministers, that he gave it a preference over that of the chancellor of the exchequer. How hon. gentlemen, who knew the distress which the country at large was at this moment enduring, could tolerate the principle of raising three millions in taxation above what was absolutely necessary, for the purpose of maintaining public credit, was to him a matter of utter astonishment. Feeling that the bill was most pernicious to the best interests of the public, he should move, as an amendment, "That it be read a third time on that day six months."
 Mr. Whitmore  said that, looking to the situation in which the country stood, he thought a sinking fund was absolutely necessary for its preservation. If he were asked to adduce one argument stronger than another for the maintenance of such a fund, he should refer to the very beneficial operation effected last year in the
 580 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. member seemed to assume, that he (the chancellor of the exchequer) had, on a former occasion, affirmed, that the reduction which had taken place in the funded and unfunded debt, and in the charge which they imposed upon the country, had been entirely owing to the sinking fund. Now, he had affirmed no such thing. His argument was simply this—that, if the House took the amount of the
 583 l.: l.; l.
 Mr. Huskisson  expressed his satisfaction at finding, that after the numerous discussions which had taken place on this question, there were so many gentlemen favourable to the principle of' maintaining a sinking fund. He was glad to find that even the right hon. member who spoke last, as well as the hon. member for Portarlington, had in some measure come round to the opinion, that it was necessary to possess a sinking fund composed of the surplus revenue, to be applied to the reduction of the debt; the last hon. member's main objection to it, arising out of a fear that it would operate as a temptation to extravagance on the part of ministers. But, ministers could not touch the sinking fund without the consent of that House. It was not fair to charge ministers with extravagance, for having, on former occasions, with the consent of the House, disposed of portions of the sinking fund in a manner most con-
 586 l.; l. l. l. 587 l.
 Mr. Baring  said, he had some difficulty as to the vote which he should give on this occasion. He was favourable to the principle of a sinking fund, but he could not see the justice or policy of making that sinking fund appear more than it really was. It was now admitted, that we had only a sinking fund of three and not one of five millions. This plan was not the offspring of the present chancellor of the exchequer. It had a nearer relation—his predecessor in office—who had left the child at his door, and he believed the right hon. gentleman would be much obliged to the House if it would enable him to throw the baby, basket and all, into the river. With respect to the plan of the hon. baronet, he thought it would not have been a bad one, if it had been applied to the reduction of the 5 per cents last year; but it could not be applied to the 3 per cents without the consent of the holders of stock; which could not be well calculated upon, because there would be a difficulty of selling the new stock in the market. In order to encourage purchasers, some advantage must be held out; and, in that case, less money would be obtained than if government laid out its stock otherwise. But suppose some advantage gained by
 588
 Mr. Haskisson  observed, that he had not said, that we had only three millions applicable to the debt, but that we had only an excess of three millions of taxes paid into the exchequer; but he did say, that if the proposed plan were adopted, we should have a sinking fund of five millions.
 Mr. Ward  said, it was an error to suppose, that the sum mentioned in the ordnance estimates, was for the erecting and repairing of any buildings to which the act of the colonial assembly could be applied. Not one penny of the ordnance grant in question went to defray the expense of buildings provided for by the act of the colonial assembly. The buildings mentioned in this act were a council-house, a chamber, a session-house, and a prison. But the sum in the ordnance estimate was required for repairing the ordnance wharf, for building storehouses, and other similar purposes, never contemplated at the time of passing the act of the colonial assembly. Various expenses were incurred by government at Barbadoes, in consequence of making it, the head quarters; distinct from any expenses the colonial assembly had contemplated; and to cover these, the grant in question was to be applied.
 Sir Charles Long  said, that the act of the colonial assembly did not contemplate the present expense. The object of that act was merely the defence of the island. Since then a naval arsenal had been established; the expense incurred by which, could not be provided for out of the 4½ per cent fund. The 4½ per cent duty was given to the king for confirming titles to estates, and in consequence of his relinquishing another duty, without annexing any conditions to giving it up. In the same year, the islands of Nevis, Montserrat, and St. Christopher made similar grants to the king, without any condition whatever. In the reign of king William, lord Somers had consented that the duty in question should form part of the civil list. What queen Anne had done, on the petition of the inhabitants of Barbadoes, was all matter of grace. For a
 596
 Mr. Bernal  said, it was absurd to contend, that the fund had not been diverted from its original purpose. He denied that the 4½ per cent was granted for any purpose but to defray the public charges of the island. The fund had been extorted from the inhabitants of Barbadoes; and, though continued for a century, it was still nothing but extortion. It was not possible to read the act, and say that 24,000 l.
 Mr. Ward  said, that before he moved the Ordnance Estimates in the order in which they were usually voted, he should merely observe, that there was a diminution of expenditure in every item except one, in which there was an increase of 776 l. l., l. l., l. l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l., l. l. l. l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Ward  said, it was true that the manufacture of gunpowder was no longer carried on at Faversham; but that establishment was continued because there were facilities at Faversham, which there were not at Waltham Abbey. The reason why the inspector lived at Faversham was, that there was a house at that establishment, and not at Waltham Abbey. With regard to the laboratory, be thought that the House would not object to the trifling expense of that establishment, while there was a prospect of accomplishing the ingenious projects which his hon. friend (sir W. Congreve) had conceived, of regenerating damaged gunpowder, in all cases in which it had not come into contact with sea-water.
 Mr. Ward  said, the noble duke had stated, that he could not do with a man less on the then estimates; but had added, that he had prospective views of reduction. These views he had since carried into effect.
 Mr. Ward  adverted to the inexpediency of lessening the number of such a corps of officers as the artillery, who were obliged to go through a regular course of education and science to qualify them for their profession. He had the authority of the duke of Wellington against any reduction of officers.
 Lord A. Hamilton  contended, that the sinking fund, as it was proposed to be applied, was not calculated for an effective reduction of debt. We had, since the year 1816, had 9,000,000 l.
 Lord Hotham  was of opinion, that a prerogative which had been exercised for so long a period, must have some foundation in law. The only objection which he should notice was, that there was danger to the constitution in the assumption of this prerogative. He had frequently heard fears of danger to the constitution, expressed on the opposition side of the House; but, as it appeared to him, the only danger to the constitution, connected with the subject, would arise from the motion of the gallant member, if carried in the affirmative; for he confessed, he could not see a greater source of danger than an army independent of the crown. It had been said, that officers of the army ought to enjoy the same privileges as other subjects. Now, he had spent a great part of his life in the army, and no man could be more anxious than he was for the welfare of the service; but he could not consent to give to it the privilege now sought for; because he thought it would be of no advantage to the officers individually, but would be most dangerous to the country.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that he felt great delight at the admissions which had at length been made, as to the real amount of the sinking fund now in the exchequer. That pleasure, however, was somewhat qualified, by finding that the House was now called upon to augment this real sum of three millions to the sum of five millions. The chancellor of the exchequer, a few evenings ago, had said, that he did not think there was any hocus pocus in his plan. The House, after that declaration, could scarcely expect to be called on to vote that there was at present a surplus of five millions. An act of parliament could not create a surplus where it was not. As to the objection which had been made against the plan of the hon. baronet, that it might not be agreed to by the holders of the 3 per cents, it had much weight. The plan of the hon. baronet did not presume any such consent. He only proposed, that a trial should be made whether or not the public would consent to it. He proposed to convert a certain sum, say 50,000,000 l. 589 l.
 Mr. Ellice  thought there was much inconsistency in the measure before the House. He did not see how he could vote against the bill, seeing that it got rid of the old machinery of the sinking fund, which was so objectionable; at the same time, he did not wish to support that part of the plan, which presumed a surplus of two millions where it did not exist. The best way would be to postpone the measure for six weeks.
 Mr. Ellice  was opposed to any delay in voting the navy estimates, but would support the amendment.
 Mr. Tierney  did not rise with the intention of denying that a reduction of the amount of the debt had been effected. That did not appear to be the question at issue. The hon. member for Aberdeen merely wished to show, that no reduction of debt had been caused by the operation of the sinking fund; and, if the clear statement of the hon. member had failed to convince the House of that fact, it would be useless for him to attempt, to do so. He regretted that his hon. friend had proposed to postpone the third reading of the bill for six months. He thought that a delay of six weeks would afford the House sufficient time to determine what measures it would be necessary to adopt. He still thought, that more good would result to the country from the remission of taxes, to the amount of the sinking fund, than from the maintenance of that fund; but, as the feeling of the House was against him, he would not trouble them with one word more respecting it. He would confine himself to the amount of the surplus revenue over expenditure; and that brought him back to the dispute of a former night, as to whether the surplus was 5,00000 l. l., l. 584 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. 585 l., l., l., l.,
 Mr. H. Gurney  was of opinion, that the king's prerogative of dismissing officers from his service was a very necessary one; and lamented that the hon. colonel, in his zeal for the liberties of Englishmen, had not rather turned his attention to the position of the privates, under the existing system of martial law and life enlistment, than to a few possible cases of very inferior hardship.
 Mr. Croker  said, he was not aware that his letter of 1813 was so long and tedious, until the hon. gentleman had conclusively proved it to be so, by showing that, diligent as he was, he had never read it. The hon. gentleman said, that in that letter it was affirmed, that the paymaster of widows' pensions had been once the treasurer of the navy. Now, this was not the fact. In that letter it was distinctly stated, that the paymaster of widows' pensions, had been not the treasurer, but the paymaster of the navy. The managers of the widows' fund were, in fact, a separate corporation, who might choose any one as their secretary. They had chosen him, because, from the office he held, he had greater facilities for carrying on the extensive correspondence connected with the business of the fund. The late Mr. Rose had given it as his opinion, that the business of paymaster of widows' pensions might be done by the treasurer of the navy; and so, as far as mere payment was concerned, it undoubtedly might; but this was the least part of the business. The main part was the business of inspection and correspondence. As to the paymaster of marines' office, the hon. gentleman proposed to transfer the business of payment to the treasurer of the navy, and that of the barracks to the ordnance. But, if this were done, an increase of officers would be necessary, so that nothing would be saved. To revert to the secretary ship to the widows' fund—the secretary of the Admiralty had been first appointed to that office in 1754, at a salary of 200 l. l. 578 l.,
 Mr. Croker  was sorry the hon. baronet, had chosen to remember words which he (Mr. C.) had never spoken, and to forget others which he had uttered. He had told him merely, that the subject had been long under consideration, by a committee of naval men; adding, that if inquiries were made of him (sir F. O.), he might say that he was not responsible, as the matter rested with the lords of the Admiralty.
 Sir John Osborn  said, he would submit certain items to the consideration of the committee. These were for the wages of labourers and artificers employed in the dock-yards; next, for the charge of timber and other materials for the building of ships, the charge for pilotage and other contingencies: under this head there was a considerable reduction, which was to be attributed, in a great degree, to the improved and effective state of the navy, and to the prudent reductions that had been made in the different dock-yards. Under the second head, there was also a considerable diminution; there were considerable reductions in the half-pay, and in the widows' pensions; there was, however, an additional charge of 310,000 l. l. s. d. l., l. l. l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d.
 Sir J. Osborn  said, that the duties of the paymaster of widows' pensions had been greatly increased of late years, not only by the number of pensions being increased ten-fold, but by the payments being made, instead of once, four times a year.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the treasurer of the navy was once the paymaster of the widows' pensions. He was of opinion, that the marine barracks might be placed under the same control as the barracks of the military.
 Mr. Hume  said, he understood that the state of the navy now, was not better than it had been three years ago. All the reductions that had been made this year might have been made seven years ago; but, better late than never. The
 576 l., l. l. l., l., l. l., l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was anxious to do away the error into which his hon. friend had, fallen, in attributing to the operation of the sinking fund that rise in the 5 per cents, which had enabled the finance minister last year to effect their reduction. It was evident, that there could be no real sinking fund but that which arose from a surplus revenue. The chancellor of the exchequer had, on a late occasion, brought down to the House the official returns of the amount of the sinking fund, from the 5th Jan. 1816, to the 5th Jan. 1823. So far, however, was the right hon. gentleman's. statement, that the reduction of the 5 per cents had been effected through the operation of the sinking fund, in raising the funds, from being borne out by the facts contained in those papers, that they were completely contradicted by them. In 1816, the revenue was 77,133,281 l., l. l., l. l. l.; l., l. 581 l.; l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. l. l. l.; l. l.; l., 582 l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the hon. member who spoke last had said, that he thought the king ought to possess the power of dismissing his own officers. Now, he would maintain, that the army was not the servant of the king, but of the state, and that the king was only required, as chief magistrate of the state, to administer justice to it. There was a wide distinction between the power which the king possessed of dismissing his own servants, and that which was claimed for him of dismissing military and naval officers. The noble lord commenced by admitting, that the foundation of all prerogative was utility; but he had failed to show wherein consisted the utility of the particular prerogative in question. The acts to which the noble lord had alluded, were passed at a period when the kingly prerogatives were the subject of dispute between the crown and the people. Since that time many of the prerogatives of the
 572
 . Mr. Hume  said, that the act of 1663 was a kind of commutation, to enable the king to maintain the public works before kept up by the inhabitants. No time could be more proper, than the present for bringing this subject under the notice of the House. If the people were to be continually burthened by new charges, when the expenses were already provided for by the colonies, there was no extravagance to which the House might not go. It would be better for England to be destitute of colonies, than to be subjected to the enormous expense entailed on us by them. They were a mere drain on the country.
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared to be the system that, in every place, the clerks and officers should get palaces, without regard to the expense which they cost; and, unless the house should compel them to sell off the whole of these unnecessary palaces, such would continue to be the system. He had in his hand a list of no fewer than 485 of these houses.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not repeat the objections he had offered last year to this item of charge: but should move, as an amendment, that the sum be reduced 15,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  declared, that a reduction of 4 per cent upon the whole cost of the ordnance department was not such as the country had a right to expect. With re-
 598
 Mr. Hume  objected to the unnecessary expense of the establishments at Waltham Abbey and Faversham, which had cost the country 150,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he attached no importance to what the duke of Wellington might say on such a subject. The noble duke had said, that there was not a man more than was necessary for the service; and yet, notwithstanding this declaration, he had discharged to the right and left. He would not give a fig for such authority. He did not propose, by the present reduction, to deprive the regiment of either men or science. He merely proposed to effect a saving, by a different mode of brigading.
 Mr. Creevey  said, that understanding that when the Speaker left the chair, it was the intention of the hon. gentleman opposite to bring forward the ordnance estimates, he should take the opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a point very intimately connected with them. Gentlemen would have observed, that in those estimates there was an item of 24,412 l. 591 l. 592 bonâ fide 593 l. 594
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that the argument of the hon. gentleman proved too much. If it were true, that the 4½ per cent duties had been extorted, they ought to be restored unconditionally; but still it would be necessary, that the House should vote the 24,412 l.
 Sir F. Blake  could not consent to the motion, but thought that, in cases of dismissal of the nature alluded to, some compensation ought to be given to officers. For his own part, in a corps which he had the honour commanding,
 574
 Sir G. Clerk  said, it was a great mistake to suppose, that the office of paymaster of marines could be abolished with advantage. If the business were transferred to the office of the treasurer of the navy, it would be necessary to appoint a cashier with a considerable salary; so that there would be no saving. It was not alone in making payments that this officer was employed, as the whole of the barracks of the marine corps were under his control. The correspondence which this officer had to keep up, was quite sufficient to employ him and the six clerks. As for the paymaster of widows' pensions, and the secretary to the widows'
 577
 Sir I. Coffin  insisted, that of late years every attempt had been made to grind; the British navy to dust.
 Sir I. Coffin  declared, in the face of the House, that the navy of England never was in so naked a state as at present.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, it was not true, that endeavours had been made, of late years, to grind the navy to dust. On the contrary, five millions were going to be voted for its support, and 4,000 seamen added, to the number hitherto kept up. Englishmen knew that what the gallant admiral had said was unfounded; but what would the French say to such a statement? Did
 579
 Sir J. Yorke  did not see why the committee might not augment, as well as reduce the estimates.
 Lord Palmerston  maintained, that the act Charles 2nd did not confer the prerogative on the crown, but recognized it as pre-existing. The hon. member had asked why press this bill, if the crown had so extensive a prerogative? To this he would reply, that it was necessary, for the sake of discipline, to have a summary mode of punishing offences committed by officers of the army. If the crown did not possess the power of dismissing without a court-martial, then no new enactment was necessary; but such was not the true construction of the 37th section. It said, that it should be lawful for a court-martial to try for certain offences; but it did not interfere with the power of the crown to dismiss without trial. There were many cases, not breaches of the articles of war, which would not only warrant, but require a dismissal without trial. How, for instance, could a man be tried for want of talent?
 Lord Palmerston,  in stating the grounds upon which he should feel it his duty to oppose this motion, did not mean to follow the example of the hon. gentleman, in producing a number of authorities, drawn from various authors, who had taken, possibly, a partial view of the subject, or had judged erroneously on a matter which did not fall within the course of their ordinary discussions. If he could not produce an argument sufficiently strong in itself to carry conviction to the mind of the House, he would not attempt to bolster it up with quotations and authority. The ground of his opposition would he, that the principle of this proposition involved a direct breach of an important prerogative, which the crown had possessed from the earliest periods; and which it was most essential for its own splendor and for the interests of the people, that it should continue to retain. He was one of those who considered that the prerogatives of the crown were not given to it for the peculiar advantage, or dignity, or interest, of the individual who might happen to wear the crown; but for the interest and the benefit of the people. It was not requisite that he should go into any long historical research to prove that this was a prerogative of a most ancient character; for he had only to refer the House to the statute book of the realm. He need only refer them to the statute passed in the beginning of the reign of
 567 568 569 570
 Lord Palmerston  moved the order of the day for going into a committee on this bill. On the ques-
 553
 Mr. Hobhouse  hoped his hon. friend would withdraw his motion. It had been stated, that there was 10,000 l. l. s. d. s. d.; l. s.; 612 l. s.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the feeling of the House was clearly in favour of the principle of the bill. If, however, the motion of the hon. gentleman were carried, the future effects of an insolvent would not be liable to his creditors, because that provision of the existing law would be repealed. Besides, every individual discharged, and now able to plead the statute in answer to a renewed claim, would be deprived of that protec-
 613 l. 614
 Mr. Herries  said, that his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the exchequer, had so fully and so eloquently explained the nature of his plans, that it would be unnecessary for him, even were he competent to the task, to enter into a detail of those plans. The question now to be considered was, not what was the partial pressure of any tax, but whether, under all the circumstances of the, case, we could afford to make any further reductions than those which had been already proposed. The hon. member opposite admitted the necessity of supporting a sinking fund, "but," said that hon. member, "if you will adopt my plan, you will have a more effective sinking fund than the one proposed by the, chancellar of the exchequer." This he (Mr. H.) denied. On the contrary, he maintained, that the hon. member's plan would leave no sinking fund at all. If we saw in the country signs of distress—if we found a diminution in the consumption of articles of taxation—then we might begin to look about, and consider whether taxes so oppressive ought, or ought not to be continued. But we had not arrived at that state. Every view which we took of the state of the country, gave ground for a contrary opinion. He did not mean to deny, that amongst some classes distress prevailed; but he contended, that the general state of the country was by no means such as could justify them in forsaking that system, which, he considered necessary for the maintenance of the public credit. The hon. gentleman talked of the distress that prevailed. But what was the fact? Why, there was a considerable increase since the year 1817, of carriages, servants, &c. There was also an increased consumption of most articles. He, therefore, did not conceive that the House would be at all justified in adopting the proposition of hon. member.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that when the small sum recovered from insolvents under the present act was spoken of, they should consider what would have been the sum recovered if the present law had not passed. Under the old system occasional insolvent acts were passed by which the gaols were emptied of debtors without any examination; so that the practice was constantly resorted to by the debtors of suffering a mere simulated confinement, in order to get rid of the claims of their creditors. He was glad the solicitor-general had undertaken the amendment of the act; as he could by no means agree to abandon the principle of it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said:—In pursuance, Sir, of my notice, I am now about to submit to House a motion respecting the noble and munificent gift which his majesty has, with so much liberality, presented to the nation; and I feel that if, in doing so, I were to enter into any length of detail, I should do but little credit to the grace and dignity with which the present has been made. It is a donation which, I am satisfied, every man in this House, and in the country, will feel to be of the highest importance. If, indeed, there be any person—and I do not consider it possible that there can be—who may think that there is no connection between the literature of the country and its general wellbeing—to that person, undoubtedly, the grant, or the possession, of so valuable a library as that to which my motion will refer, will be a matter of no sort of interest. But by those who take a more enlarged view of the subject—by those who think that there is an intimate connexion between the literature and the morals of the country—by those who think that there is an analogy between a love of letters and a love of freedom—it is impossible that this transaction should not be regarded with feelings of the deepest interest. This library, Sir, which it has been his majesty's pleasure to give to the nation, was collected by his late venerated father, during the course of a long and exemplary life; and although, perhaps, the circumstances which attended his youthful education, and the fact of his having been at so early a period oppressed with the cares of royalty, might reasonably seem to have precluded him from applying himself to objects of this kind; yet it is, I think, on these very accounts, the more honourable to the character of his late majesty, that, from his accession to the throne, down to the unhappy moment in which, by one of the most calamitous visitations of Providence, he was deprived of the means of pursuing any object relating to his own benefit or to the good of his people, he employed himself actively, zealously, and carefully in forming this collection. But, if it is surprising that his late majesty, under such circumstances, should so have occupied himself, it is not surprising, I conceive, that his present majesty, influenced by that finished taste,
 601 602
 Sir C. Long  said, that the donation was unquestionably of the greatest value to the country, because, for its extent, it was the most complete library ever collected. It had been accumulated by his late majesty, during the whole course of his reign, and without any regard to expense. It had been collected under the direction of Dr. Johnson, who had laid down the plan for its formation, and which plan had been followed as closely as possible. Having had communications with his majesty on the subject, he was enabled to say, that his majesty earnestly wished that the public might have the freest access possible to this library, limited only by such regulations as were necessary for the safety and preservation of the collection. His majesty had also another and a very natural wish, that as the collection had been entirely made by his late father, it should be kept separate and distinct. Having had frequent opportunities of inspecting this library, he was bound to say, that he believed there never was a library so complete in its arrangements, with catalogues so admirably framed, and in every respect so well calculated to afford the means of ready reference. He thought it right to mention this fact, because it did the greatest credit to the persons under whose care it had been placed. He was perfectly sure, that the union of this library with that of the British Museum and the library of the late sir Joseph Banks (which, although small, was perfect in one branch of literature), would constitute the finest library that existed in Europe. He had the gratification also to say, that it was his majesty's intention to add to the donation a most valuable collection of medals, formed under the superintendance of himself and of his late majesty. To his knowledge, his majesty had been a most liberal patron to the fine arts. By the present splendid gift he would show himself an equally zealous friend to science and literature. He was sure, therefore, that all who heard him would
 603
 Mr. Maberly  rose to submit the motion of which he had given notice. He feared that the time which had elapsed since that notice, and the repeated discussions which had taken place in the interim, upon the bill of the chancellor of the exchequer, had greatly prejudiced the chance which his (Mr. M.'s) motion might possess of adoption by the House. This great question had, indeed, been prejudiced; but although the chancellor of the exchequer's bill had passed, it did not therefore follow, when he came forward to ask for the repeal of certain taxes, that he was to be denied, on account of the passing of that bill. That bill did, in fact, contain a clause, by which the House was enabled, during the present session, to alter, repeal, or amend it. It was needless for him to say, that he disapproved of that bill; but in the argument which he was about to bring forward, he should take the saving to be, as the right hon. gentleman had thought proper to put it, five millions. The chancellor of the exchequer had admitted, that it was expedient to reduce taxation to repeal, in fact, the very species of taxes which he was now about to require the House to do. The great question between himself and the right hon. gentleman was this—Whether, under all the circumstances of the case, the proposition now to be submitted to the House was more likely to benefit the country generally, to support public credit, and to maintain national honour and dignity, than the proposition of the right hon. gentleman. He confessed, that he thought the mode in which he should propose to support public credit, and enable government to reduce taxation, would have a much more beneficial effect than the plan suggested by the chancellor of the exchequer; because it would give a much greater relief to the people. Now, before he stated to the House the taxes, the repeal of which he intended to propose, he would take a short view of the financial state of the country. That would enable them to ascertain whether they could with safety, and with advantage to the country, repeal the whole of those taxes, the repeal of only part of which was proposed by the right hon. gentleman. He would first acknowledge,
 604 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 605 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l, l., l. l. l. 606 l. l. s. d. l. 607 l.
 The Solicitor General  said, that the bill of costs complained of by an hon. member did not affect the constitution of the court. It was merely a bill between solicitor and client.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, it was the bill of one of, those attorneys to whom the forms of the court obliged persons to apply. The bill was made out from the printed regulations; and it was so far a recognized bill, that the debtor might be arrested at any moment for its amount.
 Mr. W. C. Wilson  supported the motion. He had never heard the act against swearing read in a church in his life; and yet he knew a vicar who had been twice fined for omitting to read it.
 Sir F. Burdett  adverted to the atrocious, and unmanly system of flogging which was still kept up in the army, and which he had hoped the government would, ere this, have seen the propriety of taking some means to abolish. The summary, dismissal of an officer for the cruelty with which he had inflicted this punishment, proved that the government were not in sensible to the evils arising from this system. The conduct of that officer would almost justify a stretch of power in the mode of his dismissal; but it would be much better to put an end at once to so odious and degrading a punishment, than to attempt to mitigate the evils arising from it by another act of arbitrary power. This was a subject which deserved the separate consideration of the House; and he should content himself at present with giving notice that he should, on a future day, bring forward a motion, in which he would endeavour to persuade the House, that the time was arrived when this most odious, unmanly, and detestable punishment ought to be altogether abolished.—That he might not be supposed to acquiesce in the conduct which ministers seemed determined to pursue Abe present contest between France and Spain, he could not omit that opportunity of expressing his extreme surprise and regret at that conduct—conduct, to which he scarcely knew what epithet to apply, and which was utterly unworthy of this country. A standing army had only been introduced and maintained in time of peace in this country, under the pretence of the necessity of preserving the balance of power, and the independence of the nations of Europe. This being the only cause for which a standing army was kept up in time of peace, he might fairly enter his protest against that dereliction of duty betrayed by his majesty's ministers, when, calling upon the House for the support of so large a military force, they at the same time abandoned all the objects for which that force could be constitutionally employed. In the absence of the secretary of state for foreign affairs it might not be considered altogether correct to enter fully into this question; and he was disposed to wait, in order to hear what ministers had to say. From the statements which had been made at the commencement of the session they had led the House to believe, that they would maintain the honour of England and the independence and liberties of Europe. Undoubtedly, the incur-
 617 618
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose rather to deprecate discussion, than to reply to anything which had fallen from the hon. baronet. The admission of the hon. baronet himself, justified, this course; because, if it was not proper without due notice to bring on a motion for the abolition of military flogging, still less was it prudent, without regular notice, to discuss that subject to which the latter portion of the hon. baronet's speech had applied. His right hon. friend, shortly
 619
 Mr. Hobhouse  thought that his hon. friend had merely followed the line of his duty. A strong suspicion prevailed, that, so far from observing a strict neutrality, the English government had supported the proposed oppressions of France, rather than remonstrated against them. It was rumoured, that the English minister at Madrid had been endeavouring to persuade the Cortes to give up some portion of that constitution which both Spain and the holy alliance had sworn to support. He trusted no such conduct had been pursued by ministers. With respect to the Mutiny bill, he felt indebted to his gallant friend for mooting the point afresh as to the right of the crown to dismiss Officers without subjecting them to a court-martial. As to the arguments of the noble secretary at war, upon the exercise of the prerogative on the point in question, they were absolutely absurd. To talk of an inherent prerogative of the crown to dismiss officers from the army, when it was well known that, anciently, the kings of England had no such thing as a standing army, was ridiculous. He admitted, that the right had been frequently claimed for the prerogative; but to represent it as being undisputed, was far, indeed, from the fact. Let the House look to what passed on the celebrated affair of lord Cobham's dismissal. The right was so far from being admitted, that it was emphatically denied by all the greatest men in the House. His hon. friend had been rebuked for citing Montesquieu and Blackstone upon such a question. He would offer an authority of more weight than either—that of George 1st. Upon the debate occasioned by lord Cobham's dismissal (which tool place in the reign of George
 620
 Colonel Davies  expressed his surprise at what had fallen from the hon. city member. That hon. gentleman had attended the meeting convened, for the
 622
 The Attorney-General  said, that the object of the bill was, to bring back the law to the same state as it was under the act of George 2nd, with respect to licences and the solemnization of marriages; in short, in every respect, save the invalidating marriages, when some of the provisions of the latter act had not been complied with.
 Mr. Bennet,  from personal knowledge and long intimacy, bore testimony to the honesty and disinterestedness of the public officer accused by Mr. Gourlay.
 Mr. Bennet  rose to make some remarks on the ruinous and disgraceful condition of St. James's Park, the Green Park, and Hyde Park. The trees were falling to decay, the railings broken down, the paths were not attended to. They were kept open all night, and were the resort of the lowest and most profligate characters; in short, no attention was paid to their preservation, or appearance, or police, or to the convenience of the public. They gave the perfect idea of an estate which one sometimes passes in travelling, and which was described as the property of Mr. So and So, whose affairs were unfortunately in Chancery. In every possible way the public were incommoded. If there was a gate, it was so small that no, man with a burthen could pass; if there was a useful footpath, it was stopped up; if there was an entrance in a particularly convenient place, it was kept locked. In fact, every thing was done in such a way as if the favour to the public were yielded as grudgingly as possible. Cattle were turned out into the Green Park, by which one of the finest meadows possible was turned into a quagmire, like a stable-yard. Two gentlemen condescended to pocket a considerable sum as rangers, and this practice, he supposed, conduced to their profit. As compared with the management of those parks, the Regent's Park, which was under the woods and forests' board, presented a striking contrast.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  concurred with the hon. gentleman, that the subject was one of sufficient importance to the comforts of the people of the metropolis to deserve consideration, and he thought the House would agree, that, if the revenue of the parkas, was too limited to keep them in proper condition, no moderate sum could be better employed than in supplying the deficiency. He had made inquiries into the subject, and should take steps in consequence; though some of the matters complained of had a view to public convenience. For instance, the
 634
 The Chairman  said, that such a motion could not be made. It had been decided, that a vote of money could not be increased in the committee.
 Alderman. Wood  said, he had no doubt,
 635
 Mr. Sykes  said, the question was, whether the Insolvent act should be totally repealed, or only amended. He was in favour of the latter. He complained that the provisions of the act before magistrates in the country were executed in a very loose way. The debtor was discharged almost without inquiry, as opposition was ineffectual.
 Mr. Ricardo  protested against the inference, with respect to those who had attended the dinner given to the Spanish minister. He felt a deep sympathy with the Spanish people; but he was very far from intending, by his attendance at that meeting, to pledge himself to engage the nation in war. He had no hesitation in declaring his opinion, that it would be wise in this country to keep out of the war. At any rate, the House ought to hear what ministers had to say, before it came to a decision on the subject. Right or wrong, it was not fair to condemn them unheard.
 Mr. Ellice  concurred in the general principles stated by the solicitor-general. He congratulated the House and the country, that the law officers of the crown had pledged themselves to frame a measure to remedy the evils of the existing act.
 Mr. Canning  asked whether it was the
 630
 Mr. Dawson  defended the public establishment, as an institution of the greatest utility, and contended, that the vote was absolutely necessary for its support. The return would show, that the establishment had been productive of great benefit. This was the only institution to which the country could look for pure vaccine matter.
 Mr. Dawson  said, that where so eminent a physician as sir H. Halford devoted two hours of one day in every week to the business of the institution, he could not be overpaid with 100 l.
 Mr. Bright  was of opinion, that the public money was never better expended than in erecting monuments to those who had made great and useful discoveries. Dr. Jenner was one to whom the country was deeply indebted. He hoped the hon. baronet would move, in a fuller house, for the sum he had mentioned.
 Mr. Bright  thought that some means might be found of conciliating the principle of the Insolvent acts, with security to creditors. Imprisonment, for example, might be proportioned to the amount of the debt: a long period might be awarded for a large debt, and a smaller period for smaller debts. The principle of the  cessio bonorum Habeas Corpus
 Mr. Abercromby  was convinced, that no one who was acquainted with the ancient
 611 l. cessio bonorum
 Mr. F. Buxton  then gave notice, that on the 22nd of April, he would submit a motion, that the House should take into consideration the state of slavery in the British colonies.
 Mr. Jones  said, that during the late war, he remembered hearing the hon. baronet opposite deprecate the interference of one country in the internal affairs of another; whether that country were ruled by a lawful king, a directory, or a republican government. He should like to hear explained, the circumstances which had induced the hon. baronet and
 623
 Mr. Warre  hoped the hon. gentleman extend his repeal to the reading of the new Marriage act in parish churches.
 Mr. Hume  admitted the details of the estimate to be in general satisfactory, although he thought that the accounts might still be furnished in a more simple and intelligible shape. The charge for colonies he principally objected to. That item was only 8,000 l. l. l. l. l. 631
 Mr. Hume  did not wish to put down the establishment altogether, but objected to the manner in which the money was expended. He could not agree to pay 800 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the establishment. He believed that other institutions in the metropolis, which did not receive a shilling of the public money, far excelled this establishment in utility. He wished this vote to be postponed until a return, showing what had been done by this establishment, was laid on the table.
 Mr. Hume  thought the enormous expense of proceedings in the Insolvent Debtors' court, were worthy of the serious attention of the solicitor-general. If the law gave creditors no power over the persons of debtors, they would be more cautious in trusting. He thought it would be for the advantage of debtor, the creditor, and the public if imprisonment for debt were wholly abolished. But, while the House sanctioned the principle of not detaining people in prison for debt, he was surprised they should permit the crown to imprison its debtors for life. In Scotland the case was different. He could conceive no worse means of getting payment of a debt, than to confine individuals fur 10, 15, or 20 years. It threw into the hands of government a power of confining for life an individual obnoxious on account of his political principles, and of letting those at large, who would purchase their liberty by subserviency. It was a cruel thing to confine a poor wretch for a paltry debt of 10 l.,
 Mr. Hume  said, he had proved the charges which he had brought against the governor of the Ionian Islands. The conduct of sir T. Maitland had been completely changed towards the Greeks since he had brought forward his motion. The fact was notoriously so, and all he (Mr. H.) had ever wanted was, that a strict neutrality should be observed. A communication from the Ionian Islands, of a very late date, expressed the gratitude of the inhabitants for the total change in the tone and conduct of the British authorities, as regarded the Greeks and their cause. If this did not arise from any order on the part of ministers, it showed, that in this, as well as in some other cases, too much credit had been given them. As to Mr. Gourlay, he considered him a severely oppressed man, who had been troublesome, and of whom the colony had taken care to get rid. It did not follow, that because a man was troublesome, he ought to be expelled. He spoke feelingly. He did not wish, like Mr. Gourlay, to be driven tot break stones upon the public highways. He had no hesitation in saying, that Mr. Gourlay had been removed from Canada most unjustly; because he entertained liberal opinions, and charged a public officer with receiving fees after he had accepted a fixed income in lieu of them. He (Mr. H.) earnestly recommended, that freedom and independence should be given to the Canadas'. They would then be able to stand by themselves: where as if a war broke out between this country and America, we might spend a vast deal of blood and treasure in defending them, and yet lose them in the end. At present we could relinquish them with honour. Here after we might be compelled to abandon them with disgrace.
 Dr. Phillimore  said, that so far as the object of the present bill was to repeal all that part of the act of last session which had proceeded from the House of Lords, and to retain all that had originated with the House of Commons, it was impossible he could object to it. It was valuable also, because it contained a distinct recognition of the principle for which he had so long struggled. But he thought the bill objectionable, because on the face of it, it purported to be a temporary measure; that was, it took off several restrictions, intimating that some months hence other restrictions would be imposed. The House might depend upon it, that when the other restrictions were imposed, however lenient they might be, they would excite clamour and discontent. This was an unfortunate expedient, a
 624
 Dr. Phillimore  said, that the clause in the Marriage act compelling it to be read in churches had been none of his suggesting. On the contrary, he had distinctly opposed that provision. He agreed with the hon. baronet, that it was improper to read any act of parliament in a church; but he called the attention of the House to the act against profane swearing particularly, because he believed it was the only act for the non-reading of which a penalty was provided.
 Dr. Phillimore  asked for leave to bring in a bill to repeal an existing statute which subjected a clergyman to 5 l.
 Mr. Peter Moore  rose, for leave to bring in a bill for the repeal of the Insolvent Debtors' act. Of the evils occasioned by the act, no man could doubt, who was aware of the fact, that five farthings in the pound was the whole amount of dividend received from the estates of those who had taken the benefit of it. He might be asked, why he did not move to go into a committee upon the act, instead of moving to repeal it? There had already been 200 committees upon it; and the result which all of them had come to was, that they did not know how to remedy its evils.
 610
 Mr. T. Wilson  trusted that the country would be satisfied with the explanation given by ministers. For his part, he was not afraid of being charged with possessing a dastardly spirit, because he hoped that the national honour might be preserved, without the hazard and difficulties of a war.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  confessed he entertained an opinion upon the subject diametrically opposite to that which the hon. gentleman had just expressed. He was prepared to maintain, that in the eye of the law, every thing must be considered as the undoubted right of the prerogative, which had so remained from the time of the Revolution down to this period. That this power in the prerogative had been enjoyed and exercised since the Revolution downwards, was what he positively asserted. That it had been occasionally called in question, he did not deny. Nothing could be more strange than the authority adduced by the hon. gentleman. George 1st, a foreigner, though called to the government, under circumstances certainly dear to the feelings of the country, was yet the last person to be cited upon the doctrines of a constitution with which he could not be over well acquainted. Supposing the question, whether such a power did or did not exist in the crown, were now agitated for the first time, could it be answered in any way but in the affirmative? Could an army be kept on foot without that law? Were there other means to prevent an army once on foot, from becoming the greatest nuisance to the constitution and the liberties of the country? With respect to the other point, he denied that the hon. baronet was correct in the assumption, that the country was prepared to go along with him, in the propriety of plunging into the war. That was the general feeling of the people of England. It was
 621
 Mr. Denison  said, he had refused to attend the meeting, because he would not be considered as pledging himself to support a war on behalf of the Spanish nation. He was for preserving the national honour, without the hazard of war, if that were practicable. He was sorry to differ from his friends; but he was convinced the country ought to do any thing, consistently with its honour, to shun that abyss from which it had so recently escaped.
 Mr. Evans  supported the motion.
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, that in rising, in pursuance of his notice to offer to the House the interesting petition which had been intrusted to his care, he felt confident, that the subject of the petition would of itself recommend it to the attention of a British House of Commons, and that an additional motive for that attention would be found in the character of the parties from whom the petition proceeded; a body of individuals who seldom came forward to take any share in public concerns, and who could be induced to do so only when they felt themselves called upon by considerations and objects affecting the hest and highest interests of society. On the part of the Society of Friends, commonly called Quakers, in Great Britain and Ireland, he held in his hand a petition which he begged leave to present, praying for the Abolition of Slavery throughout the British dominions. He well remembered, to the great honour of the same class of individuals, that they were the first to present a petition to parliament for the abolition of the slave trade. On that occasion, they had appealed to the great principles of humanity and religion. They had also maintained,
 625 626 627 628 629
 Mr. Wilberforce  said it was not, but that such was the intention of an hon. and much esteemed friend of his.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that when he recollected the conduct of ministers on the occasion of the infamous attack upon Naples, he felt that he could not give them credit for liberality. He was most impatient, therefore, to see the documents which were to be produced. Respecting the dinner at which he had attended, he denied having the least idea of pledging himself to any particular line of conduct. His object was to hold out to the world his detestation of the principles upon which France was proceeding, with regard to Spain. It was impossible for him to convey, in suitable language, what he felt with regard to the conduct of the despots of Europe. He should best come near it by using the words of a modern poet:—
 "Nations would do well T' extort their truncheons from the puny hands Of heroes, whose infirm and baby minds Are gratified with mischief; and who spoil, Because men suffer it, their toy, the world."
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that the value of our colonies was not to be determined by the mere expense they cost, but a great variety of other circumstances. As to the crown lands in Canada, he would say, that Mr. Gourlay had grossly vilified the government of Canada. Considering the political situation of Canada, it was not possible to separate it from the empire; and, owing to that situation, the expense incurred was necessary. As to Bermuda, it was a naval station, and the expenditure for it was determined by very different principles and motives. He would not notice what had been said regarding the Mauritius, further than by observing, that the commissioners sent thither would shortly furnish such information as would render all dispute as to the facts unnecessary. As to the Ionian Islands he could not allow it to be supposed from his silence, that he acquiesced in the assertion, that our troops were stationed there to suppress independence, and keep down disaffection. He could assure the hon. member, that the change to which he Alluded was not the conse-
 632
 Mr. Wilmot  was quite sure the charges would turn out to be unfounded. l.
 Sir W. Guise  said, that the country was under great obligations to Dr. Jenner, and he trusted the government would see the propriety of erecting a monument to his memory. He thought the House ought to add 500 l.
 Sir F. Blake  regretted that the National Debt Reduction bill should have passed the House. It appeared to him a singular inconsistency, that, after having admitted the true principle of a sinking fund to rest in a surplus of revenue, and after the admission that the present surplus did not exceed three millions, the House should have sanctioned a bill, which went upon the assumption, that we had a sinking fund of five millions. If he were asked he would do with he would do with the surplus revenue, he would say, let it be applied
 609
 Sir. R. Wilson  said, that though his constituents had met to consider of these acts, there was not one of them who had held up his hand for the repeal of the principle on which they were founded.
 Mr. W. C. Wilson  wished that en adviser, in the way of  amicus curiœ
 Sir R. Wilson  denied that the people would entertain those feelings, with respect to the preserving of neutrality, which the last speaker had asserted they would do. They would consider the causes of the war; they would see that it was not a war against Spain merely, but a war of tyrants, fanatics, and bigots, against the rights of free nations. They would see that it was a war against liberty; they would observe who were the crusaders; they would see who were the advocates of neutrality, now that the strife was against liberty; and, probably, they would find them to be the very parties who had preached up war when it was raging against liberty. For, what was this war of France upon Spain? Was it not for that which it was impossible for any nation to give up? Was it not to forte Spain to yield the point of honour? And, after she had done that, they might bid her take back her inquisition, and all the other engines of ignorance and slavery. There was, in short, no point of degradation at which she would stop. The French had dared the dishonour of Spain. He was an unworthy Briton who would tamely see France trample on the rights of Spain. Let the war proceed, and he felt certain that the people of this country would discharge the duty which they owed the Spaniards. He hoped and trusted, that this brave and generous people would, notwithstanding the Foreign Enlistment bill, go over in crowds, and rally round the banners of honour and freedom.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that no man deprecated more than he did, the conduct of France towards Spain; but that would not make him forget the calamities of war. The evils of the late war had been severely felt. We could not help them now. But they should teach us to pause, ere we plunged the country into another. He hoped he should be understood. Rather than compromise the honour of the country, he would go to, war; but still he thought that war should, if possible, be avoided.
 Sir. J. Newport  thought that no acts of parliament whatever ought to be read in churches. Few congregations stayed to listen to them.
 Sir J. Newport  explained the operation of the Insolvent Debtors' act in Ireland. No complaints were made in that country. The people were not much disposed to give credit; and it was from the facility of giving credit, that most of the evils arose.
 Sir W. De Crespigny,  in seconding it, mentioned the fact of an old lady having been frightened into fits at the sight of the window tax gatherer.
 Lord Althorp  could not agree to the repeal of these acts, unless a new act was brought in to remedy the evils which they were said to have created. He was surprised that the hon. member should have repeated the statement of five farthings in the pound being the whole amount of dividend received under the present acts. The return to which the hon. member alluded, was made under the act as it existed before it was amended. The present law was founded on a very salutary principle; but he would not deny that, in its details, it might require several amendments. He was, therefore, glad to hear, that the solicitor-general had pledged himself to take it under his consideration. He wished the House would compare the law as it now bore upon insolvent debtors, with the one which had formerly existed regarding them. Formerly, the creditor might imprison his debtor for life, and the imprisonment served as a discharge for the debt. The consequence was, that the gaols became filled by degrees; and acts were constantly passed to empty them. He was of opinion that, under the present law, the confinement was not long enough. He likewise thought that it would be a considerable amendment of the present system, if a power were given to a certain number of creditors to object to an insolvent's discharge.
 Mr. Robertson  believed, as far as he had been able to ascertain the general feeling of the commercial interests in this country, that there was not a single exception taken to the principle of this bill. But, though it was of vital consequence to the empire in itself, its machinery was such as would be very likely to destroy all its good effect. The object of the bill was, to allow foreign manufactures and produce to come into our warehouses, and to go out of them again, with the greatest possible facility: so that foreign commerce might be carried on in this country, with greater advantage than it could be in others. The unnecessary caution, however, which government had manifested to secure the revenue, tended to destroy the advantages which would otherwise accrue from it. This was the complex part of the bill—when foreign goods were deposited in our warehouses, those who exported them again were, by law, required to give bond for such exportations taking place; and this was usually done by the merchant, captain, or some other efficient authority. Now, when the vessel in which they were exported was once fairly out of our ports, he conceived that these goods were in just the same situation as if they had never been in our warehouses; and, therefore, that no further protection or precaution; on the part of government, was necessary. So much of the bill as recognized this principle he quite approved of; but the government not content with this, called upon all the other nations of the earth to protect our revenue. Now, what had the merchant of the continent of Europe, or the merchant of
 643
 Mr. S. Wortley  denied that individuals who were interested in the bill had had sufficient opportunity of ascertaining how far their interests were affected by it. The merchants at Leeds had called a meeting upon the subject, conceiving that a part of the bill was calculated materially to injure them. He was desirous of delay until the result of that meeting should be ascertained.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the bill, with the exception of one clause, was the same as that of last year. That clause was an exception in favour, or, as he should say, in disfavour, of silk and linen goods. The House, last session, had suggested, however, that such a clause should be introduced. Now, he understood the hon. member for Yorkshire to wish that woollens should be included in the same exception; and in that case the hon. member would have ample opportunity to press the introduction of a provision to that effect, in the subsequent stages of the bill. He, nevertheless, conceived that the hon. gentle, man's constituents took a very bad view of their interests.
 Mr. K. Douglas  did not conceive there was any ground for apprehension on the part of the persons interested in the woollen trade. We, at present, exported woollens to the amount of 7,000,000 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Philips  said, the exceptions in favour of silks and linen were only made to meet existing prejudices. It was matter of notoriety, that our commerce had suffered seriously in consequence of the want of a more liberal policy. He had made inquiries respecting the woollen trade, and had learned, that it was in a progressive state of improvement, and could maintain a competition in the foreign market. He objected to the tax upon wool as strongly as any man could do, and would support a motion for repealing it; but he could not give his approbation to any measure which should have for its object to continue the law in its present state.
 Mr. Dominic Browne  said, he would divide the House, unless the right hon. gentleman would allow the bill to be recommitted after the holidays.
 Mr. Marryat  considered this bill of the utmost importance to the country. He thought the prejudices which seemed to exist against it very extraordinary. It did not touch our manufactures; but affected only foreign goods that had been brought into our markets. The revenue, which it was calculated took one-fourth of what was earned and expended by every body in the kingdom, was mainly interested in the bill. There was scarcely a kingdom of Europe into which British goods might not be imported, and from which they might not be exported; and the consequence was, that there they could most easily make up assorted cargoes of any description. Hence it had hitherto happened, that foreign merchants had been able to supply foreign markets to much greater advantage than we could.
 645
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not intend at that late hour to go into the details of the subject which he had to submit to the committee. The course he would now pursue was, to propose certain resolutions for the adoption of the committee. If they were agreed
 647 s. s. s. s. 648 s. s. d. 
 1. "That there shall be levied and paid an excise duty of 5 s. s. 649 d. 2. "That every brewer of such beer or ale shall take out an excise licence, authorizing such persons to brew such beer or ale, and shall pay duty for every such licence at and after the same rate as is by law imposed on excise licences to common brewers of strong beer. 3. "That every seller and retailer of such beer or ale, at any place detached from the entered premises where the same is brewed, and not being sold for consumption on the premises or place where sold, shall take out an excise licence, and shall pay for the same the sum of 1 l. s.
 Alderman Wood,  on behalf of the 48,000 publicans of Great Britain, 2,000 of which were among his constituents, objected to the measure. He thought it particularly hard, that at least these persons, who had altogether 23 millions of property in their leases, houses, furniture, and stock in trade, should not be allowed to sell the beer of the new quality, as well as other people.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not mean to prevent brewers from manufacturing beer of the intermediate duality; but it was obvious, that they could not be allowed to do it on the same premises with their old trade. There must be some precautions to secure the revenue.
 Mr. Ricardo  was of opinion, that the bill was founded on a sound and judicious principle, and one which ought to prevail throughout our commercial code. The country was greatly indebted to the right hon. gentleman for his efforts to liberalize the system of trade. It was impossible to make a law which would not interfere with the interests of some classes; but the one before the House, while it was calculated to advance the public welfare, interfered as little as possible with particular interests.
 Mr. Bright  was very desirous that the committee upon the bill should stand over until after Easter, in order that its provisions might be circulated among those to whom the subject was of great importance.
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, was persuaded, that the general principle of the bill was excellent. He feared, however, that the framers of it had got into a hobble, by listening to the representations of the persons concerned in the silk-trade. If they persevered in that part of the bill, he should move a similar exemption, in favour of woollens.
 Mr. Buxton  thought that the measure was one of an inequitable kind. It appeared, however, to be the wish of the agriculturists, the wish of the public, and—what was beyond the other two put together—the wish of the chancellor of the exchequer, that it should pass. The brewers and publicans had, therefore, nothing left, but to yield with the best possible grace. He thought, however, that the right hon. gentleman ought to impose the duty more fairly.
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the right hon. gentleman to the severe duty of 3 per cent, which was levied by the Levant Company, to the great prejudice of the Turkish trade, and hoped he would take that grievance into consideration. As to the bill, it was his opinion, that it ought to have no exceptions. It was favourable to the general interests of the country, and he would therefore give it his decided support.
 Mr. Wallace  said, he was not prepared to hear any objections on the score of hon. gentlemen being taken by surprise. The bill had been already printed five times over; and he now proposed the committee in pursuance of a distinct pledge which he had given to an hon. gentleman opposite, that the measure should be brought on at an early period of the session, to give time for mature discussion through all its stages.
 Mr. Wallace  moved the order of the day for going into a committee on this bill.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, the reason of the exceptive clause was obvious. Why was the exception made in favour of silk?—because the duties on silk were so enormously high. Why was the exception made in favour of linens?—because the distresses of Ireland had induced the legislature to manifest some feeling for her want of capital. It would be unfair not to extend the same exemption to the woollen trade, as long as it was subjected to the present tax. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman on the general principle of the bill; but he thought it was straining it too far not to allow that there were peculiar cases which ought to be exempted from its operation. If no other member should anticipate him, he would move in the committee, that the word "woollen" should follow the word "linen."
 Sir H. Parnell  was of opinion, that the bill would be very beneficial to the Irish trade, as it would make a greater opening for the linen manufactures of that country than at present existed.
 Sir. M. W. Ridley  said, that the House
 646
 Sir J. Newport,  having on former occasions opposed the principle of a free trade, took the earliest opportunity of declaring, that he considered the opinions Which he had formerly entertained upon that subject to be quite erroneous, and had arrived at the conviction, that the trade of Ireland would be greatly improved by throwing it quite open. An opinion in favour of a free trade, was fast gaining around in that country.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that the act of Anne referred only to such appointments as were held directly under, the crown. The colonial agents were paid out of the local revenue, and not out of the crown funds.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  was convinced, that the beneficial changes which had recently been effected in the Ionian Islands, would never have been brought about, if his hon. friend had not directed the attentions of parliament to the subject. It was true the House had negatived the accusations brought against sir T. Maitland; but every body who had been in the Ionian Islands admitted, that he had contrived to make the British name absolutely odious and detested. This fact had never been denied but by a succession of under, secretaries, who seemed to have a refining fee to defend in that House the conduct of every governor.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that no part of the speech of the hon. member for Aberdeen had surprised him more than his protest against sweeping and general accusations. When the member brought forward charges against absent individuals, he must be prepared to hear those charges repelled with warmth. He could not conceive a situation more delicate than that of an officer, in the discharge of arduous and painful duties, liable to such attacks and charges as the hon. member had thought proper to make. He considered his hon. friend to be quite justified in the warmth he had expressed, at the charges vaguely brought forward against sir T. Maitland. For what were those charges? Why, such as, if true, must cause the dismissal of that gallant officer. He had been called scourge and a tyrant, and a disgrace to the British name. Was it fair that such attacks should be made upon question like that now before the House, an without even giving the accused or his friends the advantage of a notice? On such an occasion, his hon. friend had been imperiously called upon to vindicate sir T. Maitland. Having for two years filled the office now so worthily occupied by his hon. friend, he begged to bear his testimony to the character of sir T. Maitland, Never had there lived a man actuated by a more sincere desire to promote the honour of the British name.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the manner which these charges had been brought forward against sir T. Maitland was most extraordinary, most unjust, and most illiberal. The noble lord and the hon. member objected to the charges being described as personal, and yet sir T. Maitland was called a "scourge" and a "tyrant." The hon. member had thrown out his vague accusations, upon an occasion when no decision could be come to by the House upon them. Let him bring forward a distinct motion and specific charges, and then would be the time for meeting him with evidence to disprove his statements.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no man keeping a public-house would be allowed to brew the new beer on his premise. There was a clause, providing that a bublican who wished to brew within a certain distance of the house which he used as a public-house.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that the bill professed to give the poor man a cheap
 662
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer said, he did not bring forward this measure as one free from objections; but, as the principle of the bill seemed to be gene rally admitted, he hoped a fair trial would be given to it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that there was no beer duty in Ireland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the sale of beer, without a licence, in Ireland, was a matter worthy of consideration.
 Mr. F. Lewis  thought it would be perfectly practicable to impose a duty,  ad valorem, 663
 Sir G. Coekburn  said, that the principal merchants and ship-owners had been consulted as to the expediency of this measure, and that all had considered it as a boon extended to the interest with which they were connected. By the protection afforded under this bill, apprentices in merchant vessels might now, for the first time, become second and first mates, without being liable to impressment.
 Mr. Marryat  said, he had been for forty years extensively engaged in the shipping trade, and the experience hell had derived from this circumstance, induced him to give his hearty support to the bill. It was, with him, a rule never to advance any seaman, unless he had served regularly by apprenticeship. Much had been urged respecting a free trade, and the advantage of removing all restriction; but if the opinions of the advocates for non-restriction were pushed to their full extent, horses would not be broken in, nor children be made to go to school, for these were restrictions. Buonaparté had once said, that if he had a throne of adamant, he believed the politi-
 665
 Mr. Bernal  was unfavourable to the principle of the bill; but, as the amendment, if carried, would take away the benefit given by the bill, of extending the exemption from impressments, he trusted his hon. friend would not press it.
 Mr. Huskisson  agreed, that whenever any measure, interfering between employers and the individuals employed, was proposed, some strong necessity or political expediency ought to be shown for
 664
 Colonel Barry  said, he rose to move for the production of certain papers relative to the subject matter of a discussion which was to take place on the 15th of next month. He was induced to do so, because he thought it of great importance, that all documents tending to throw light on that question, should be previously before the House. The paper he would first move for was, a Copy of the information on which was grounded the committal of some persons to the Gaol of Newgate, in Dublin, on a charge of a Conspiracy to murder the Lord Lieutenant. He would state the particulars of the transaction as they took place. On the 14th of December, the transaction to which he alluded originated. On the day after, some persons were taken up, and brought before the police magistrates; two were charged with a conspiracy to riot, and committed to Newgate, on a committal specifying only the simple crime of riot or conspiracy to riot. Those two persons, named Hanbridge and Graham, were committed to Newgate on the 23rd of December. After a little time, warrants of detainer were lodged, charging them with a conspiracy "to kill and murder" the lord-
 668 ex-officio, nolle prosequi, ex-officio 669
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that so far as he was personally concerned in this question, he was desirous that every document should be brought before the House and the public; but whatever individual feelings he might entertain, he could not submit to the establishment of a precedent subversive of the ends of justice. He acknowledged the temper of propriety with which the right hon. member had brought forward his motion: he must suppose that he was actuated by a zeal for justice: he must suppose, that no individual object mixed itself with the subject, and that it was not brought forward from any union of views with the class of persons who were the objects of prosecution: he must, in courtesy, suppose, that it was brought forward, not with any view to embarrass the Irish government, or the humble individual now before the House. But, though he was not at liberty to find fault with the motives of the right hon. member, he must complain of the effects. It would be in the recollection of the House, that the hon. member for Armagh (Mr. Brownlow) had moved for the production of papers relative to the committal of the same persons. That hon. member had moved for copies of the bills of indictment which had been ignored by the grand jury, as well as for copies of the  ex-officio ex-officio 670 671 jeu d'esprit 672 673 674 675
 Dr. Lushington  denied the correctness of the opinion which had been just expressed by the attorney-general for Ire-
 676 677
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the question was, whether certain informations, upon which the magistrates had committed some persons, accused, in those informations, of a conspiracy to murder the king's representative, should be placed before the House? He must say, that he did consider a great part of the hon. and learned gentleman's speech had been completely beside this question. These were  ex-officio 678
 Mr. S. Rice thought the course pursued by his right hon. friend was the just one. He contended that the general principle was in his favour, and he left it to those who opposed him to make out the special case on which they relied.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  stated, that what his right hon. friend had done, was given rather as a notice than as a final decision. The question of the linen-trade of Ireland appeared to him to proceed on a distinct and peculiar principle, and could not be considered with reference to the general principle by which the commerce of this country was regulated. The point to be looked to was, how the linen-trade could best be extended and supported, so as to render the greatest portion of benefit to the people of Ireland. He viewed that trade with much interest, not only because it was intimately connected with the peace and tranquillity of Ireland, but because it was associated with certain historical recollections. The linen-trade was given to Ireland by a great monarch. Every thing was done to discourage the woollen-trade of Ireland, and to encourage that of England; but at the same time a solemn promise was given that the linen-trade of Ireland should be fostered and encouraged. When the subject came to be discussed, he should approach it with these feelings.
 Colonel Barry,  in reply, defended himself from the charge of having taken the attorney-general by surprise, as he had submitted the motion to hint on Wednesday, as well as to the secretary for Ireland, before his departure. He disclaimed all wish of governing Ireland, by dividing its inhabitants into factions. He was as sincere a friend to conciliation as any man; but he was, nevertheless, of opinion, that Ireland could not be conciliated without justice being administered equally to all parties. He could wish that there were neither Orangemen nor United Irishmen Ireland; but, as those associations had been mentioned, be must beg leave to say, that the Orange societies were founded upon principles which partook much more of the na-
 682
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that, as the act of the last session had only given the trustees of naval and military pensions the power of making agreements for the sale of them from year to year, and as, by some inexplicable omission, it had not given them the power of making au agreement for the sale of them for a term of years, he now canoe forward, to ask for leave to bring in a bill to remedy that omission. He did not know whether, under such circumstances, it would be necessary for him to trouble the House with an account of the bargain which the trustees had recently made, for sale of part of those annuities; as, however, the hour was a late one, he would confine himself to merely moving for leave to bring in a bill "to confirm an Agreement entered into by the Trustees, under an act of the last session, for apportioning the burthen occasioned by the Military and Naval Pensions and Civil Superannuations, with the Governor and Company of the Bank of England."
 Mr. Baring  said, that, as no agreement with the Bank of such a nature as that to which allusion had just been made, could be concluded without the sanction of parliament, and, as the first vote of the House in favour of it, was generally considered to give such sanction, leave to bring in the bill should not be given as a mere matter of course. He, therefore, suggested the propriety of introducing this bill in a committee of the whole House.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that, as this transaction went to raise money by way of loan, it ought to be introduced in a committee of the whole House. As to the bargain which had been made with the Bank, he should certainly object to it; not that he considered it at all unfair for the Bank to accept it; but he thought it would be more advantageous to the public, for the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt to take the management of those annuities into their own hands.
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that it was quite impossible for the House to accede to the prayer of the petition. The petition did not contain any allegation that Mr. Harris had promised to attend. If petitions so loosely worded were once admitted as just grounds for extending the time of entering into recongnizances, the 14 days allowed might always be enlarged to 28; as it would be easy to state that a surety had refused to attend at the time and place which the act specified.
 Lord A. Hamilton  could not see why the production of the documents should be opposed by the friends of the magistrates, unless it was because those individuals had acted improperly.
 Lord A. Hamilton  contended, that a public man was liable to have his conduct Canvassed, and that the charges against sir T. Maitland were made against his public acts, and against his government. When he first heard the statements of his hon. friend, the impression upon his mind was, either that they were not true, or that sir T. Maitland must be removed from his government. There was one case, the infamy of which must rest either upon sir T. Maitland or the government. He meant the case of Martinengo, who was sentenced to ten years imprisonment. He would defy the whole talent of the Treasury-bench to tell what the charge against him was. If the government had not disclaimed that act, why had they thought proper to remit the sentence? The right hon. secretary of state had no right to say, that personal and vague charges were made against sir T. Maitland.
 Lord Hotham said, he would vote for the motion, as it did not appear that any inconvenience would arise from the production of the papers.
 Mr. Alderman Smith  thought it was desirable to get the public houses out of the hands of the brewers.
 Mr. Sykes  complained of the great haste with which the bill was proceeded in, to the utter prevention of his constituents from informing themselves as to its nature and extent. He had hoped, that all new restraints upon commerce were at an end.
 MT. Ricardo  said, he objected altogether to the principle of the bill. He thought it was a maxim, that no person ought to be controlled in his own arrangements, unless such control, was rendered necessary by paramount political circumstances. Now, no such necessity could be shown in support of this bill. In his opinion, it would not be more unjust to enact a law, that every surgeon should take a certain number of apprentices, to encourage the progress of surgical science, than it would be to pass this bill, rendering it imperative on the masters of merchant vessels to take a given number of apprentices, in order to encourage the increase of efficient seamen. He denied this bill would cause an addition of one seaman to the number now in the service. So long as there was employment for seamen, there would be encouragement enough for them; and when there was not, those who were now here, would resort to foreign countries for employ. The only effect of the bill would be, to reduce the wages of seamen; and that alone would render it objectionable. He would move, to leave out from the word "repealed," to remove the compulsory condition for taking a certain number of apprentices from the bill.
 Colonel Trench  declared himself in favour of the motion, but not as an Orangeman. Those societies he considered destructive of the public tranquillity.
 Mr. Dawson  said, that the contracts for clothing the convicts were made openly and publicly.
 Mr. H. Sumner  expressed his doubt that abuses might be practised under the provisions of the bill. A brewer making the new description of beer might keep a house in which persons could drink it; and thus, in fact, maintain a public house without holding a licence.
 Mr. Bright  expressed his approbation of the bill, which was, however, rather a modification of the existing law, than a new measure; for, by the 2nd and 3rd of Anne, which had never been repealed, masters of all vessels, of above 30 tons, were bound to take one or more apprentices, according to the rate of tonnage.
 Mr. Abercromby  agreed with the right hon. secretary, that the real question was confined in a narrow compass, but differed from him in the opinion, that the present motion was not connected with that of the hon. member for Armagh. They both referred to the same subject. The motion of the hon. member for Armagh did not turn upon the legality of the act, which the attorney-general for Ireland had done, but upon the constitutional exercise of the power which he possessed. This being the case, the whole of the proceedings connected with the exercise of that power in filing of the  ex-officio 679
 Mr. Grattan  objected to that part of the bill which allowed of the warehousing of foreign linens, without the paying of a transit duty, as most injurious to the staple trade of Ireland.
 Mr. Grattan  said, he looked to the effect of having beer sold, without the necessity of a public-house licence.
 Mr. Grattan  wished the plan to be extended to Ireland, where a good beer, sold at a reasonable price, might, in some measure, supersede the use of spirits.
 Mr. Grattan  professed himself such a lover of publicity, in all cases where the
 680 ex-officio
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, though he approved of the principle of the bill, thought it would be difficult to carry its details into effect. He preferred a malt to a beer tax; though his own personal interest would be affected by the former. He should be glad to find that the sale of beer was legalized, like that of all other commodities. This would promote the comfort of the labouring classes; who would thus be enconraged to send for their beer, and consume it with their families, instead of wasting their time, their money, and their health, in public-houses.
 Mr. F. Buxton  objected to the measure, on the ground, that it imposed an unfair duty on the brewers, whose capitals were already embarked in the trade, while a lower rate of duty was imposed on the new race of brewers, which the bill was calculated to encourage.
 Mr. Gladstone  supported the bill, and concurred in the statement, that it had received the unqualified approbation of the ship-owners.
 Mr. Lambton said, that if he could persuade himself that only object of the present motion was to afford a triumph to a faction in Ireland, he would give a different vote to that which he intended to give. But he could not understand how that could in any way be construed to be the object and end of the motion. Was the House to be told; that because faction existed to a lamentable extent in Ireland, they were not to inquire into a particular case of abuse in the administration of justice in that country, when it was brought under their notice? If that doctrine were recognized, there would be and end to all law—there would be an end to the confidence which the people placed in the House of Commons as the ultimate tribunal of justice. In his opinion, a  primà facie 681
 Mr. Hume  said, he had asked Mr. Parkins whether he had any written document, from which it could be shown, that Mr. Harris had undertaken to become his surety. Mr. Parkins replied in the negative; but added, that both his sureties had voluntarily offered to become so. The hon. member concluded by moving, that the time for entering into recognizances be extended till that day week.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had a petition to present from Mr. Joseph Wilfrid Parkins. The petition stated, that the petitioner had that day attended at the House, to enter into the requisite recognizances to prosecute his petition against the election of Mr. Kemp, for the borough of Arundel, accompanied by one of his sureties, Joseph Stevenson, and his agent, Henry Taylor; but that his other surety did not attend The petition went on to declare, that, in consequence of the representations made by the petitioner and his agent, the consideration of the validity of his recognizances was postponed till eight o'clock that evening; that at that hour he again attended, with one of the sureties; but that the other, whose name was Wm. Harris, did not even then appear, and, as the petitioner verily believed, voluntarily refused to attend. The petitioner, therefore, prayed the House to extend the time for his entering into recognizances. The act was impera-
 684
 Mr. Hume  recommended his hon. friend to persevere in his opposition to a measure which was about as useful and politic as a statute of one of the Edwards for the better stuffing of feather-beds. There was as little reason for the regulations imposed by this bill on the masters of merchant vessels, as there was in that instance for an interference with the craft of the upholsterers. If the bill were to pass into a law, the effect would be to man the whole of the merchant ships with apprentices. It had been alleged, that seamen were scare and wages high, and that this bill would tend to increase the numbers and diminish the rate of wages. But, if it were true, that the supply of seamen was not at present equal to the demand, the well-known principle would draw more men to the employment. The chief objection to the bill, however, was the principle of compulsion, by which it was supposed that seamen would be taught their duty. Now, it was well known, that we had had the very best of seamen without the operation of any such principle; and if so, coercion could do nothing but harm. This coercive system would, in fact, create a supply beyond the demand, and could not fail of being mischievous. His hon. friend did not
 666
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask, whether the contracts for supplying the convicts with clothes, &c. were made by public advertisement? While he was on his legs, he would take the liberty of saying, in consequence of what had fallen from the secretary for the colonies, that he never would shrink, from any charge he had once brought forward. With regard to the case of Mr. Gourlay, he intreated the House to wait until the papers were before them, and then he was confident that the statements of that gentleman would be found correct. He complained that the hon. secretary had said, that he made sweeping allegations against individuals which he could not afterwards support by evidence. With regard to the government of the Ionian Islands, he had said, that sir T. Maitland had been guilty of many unjust and arbitrary acts. What were the proofs which he had adduced? The repeated rebellions which had taken place in those islands, and the increased number of British troops which had been sent there to quell them. He was ready to prove to-morrow, all the allegations he had ever made against sir T. Maitland. If the hon. gentleman thought that he extended those allegations to sir T. Maitland's present conduct, he laboured under a mistake; for he had distinctly said, that within the last four months, there had been a considerable change in the conduct and policy of that officer. He regretted exceedingly, that sir T. Maitland had been permitted to continue so long in the government of those islands; for his conduct had caused the name of an Englishman to be hated by the inhabitants. Instead of being the protector, he had been the scourge and tyrant of the
 658
 Mr. Hume  repeated the objections which he had made last year to the expenses of the colonial agents. It had at that time been asserted, that those expenses were paid by the, colonies, and not by the British treasury. Such, however, was not the fact. There was in the present resolution an item of 600 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.,
 Dr. Phillimore  complained, that his right hon. friend had been unfairly dealt with by the clandestine manner in which this serious charge had been brought forward. The real question before the House was, whether the king's benevolent intention to promote peace and conciliation was to be carried into effect,  bonâ fide,
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  approved of the measure, as he thought it would enable the poorer classes to get malt liquor cheaper than they could at present. This reconciled him to the bill; though he did not deny, that it might slightly affect the public brewers and publicans.
 Mr. Creevey  directed the attention of the House to the fact, that three of the colonial agents were members of parliament. By the act 6th of Anne, any person accepting a new office was disqualified from holding a seat in, that House. He supposed he should be told, that the act only referred to offices given by the crown. There could not, be a more Jesuitical argument. According to such reasoning, lord Bathurst might fill the house with members holding offices, although the king could not. It was his intention, after the holidays, to, bring forward a proposition upon the subject to obtain a declaration of the meaning of the act of Anne; and if it should appear, that it did not comprehend the case to which he alluded, he would propose to amend it, in order to bring those cases within its reach [Hear!].
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that the question involved in the present motion was, whether Ireland should continue to be governed by law, or be thrown hack again into the arms of that detestable faction from which it had been recently delivered. If the House wished to rescue that country from the unfortunate state of division in which it had been placed, it ought not, directly or indirectly, to countenance that party in Ireland which considered itself aggrieved, not by the particular transaction to which the motion referred, but by the whole conduct of the existing Irish government, and by the principle of conciliation on which it proceeded. He was sorry to hear the manner in which the intentions of the rioters in the Dublin theatre had been spoken of. Much ridicule had been attempted to be thrown on their proceedings, by a recurrence to the words "rattle" and "bottle." He hoped that the object of the parties would not he lost sight of, in consequence of the attempt which was made to attach ridicule to the instruments which they had employed.
 Mr. Wallace  then moved several amendments to the bill; which were agreed to.
 Mr. Wallace  did not wish to prejudge any part of the question. He did not consider himself as pledged to any one side; but he thought that those who objected to the bill were bound to ant out the injury that it would do.
 Mr. Wallace  deprecated the imputation of unfairness. He had stated last year, that if Ireland was to be exempted the it must not be considered as a permanent exemption. The only ground upon which the exemption had then been made was, the distressed situation of the country, and the inconvenience of bringing the matter under discussion. He was willing to give every reasonable time, and he thought that the 21st of April would afford time enough to convey hither the grounds of the opposition which the manufacturers of Ireland proposed to make to the bill.
 Mr. W. Williams  thought the provisions of the bill could be better carried into effect by an  ad valorem
 Mr. Wilmot  said, he understood, that during his absence, the hon. member for Aberdeen had revived the subject of the charges against the governor of Upper Canada. The hon. member had been specifically told, that if he would present a petition from Mr. Gourlay, and bring forward a direct measure upon it, be would be met in the fullest and most distinct manner. What the hon. member desired more he could not understand. With regard to those reiterated, vague; and general attacks upon the character and conduct of sir T. Maitland, he proms Nested against them, and he hoped the House would support him in so doing.—The hon. member said, that there had been a change of policy in sir T. Maitland's administration within the last four months. In reply to that, he challenged the hon. member to show any act of sir Thomas's government, during those four months, which differed from the acts of the previous eight months. According tee the hon. member, the people of the islands were only kept down by the sword. He would state a few simple circumstances to the House; and would then ask, whether it was possible that this could be the fact? In the island of Corfu there were, at present, only 1,900 British troops. When the French occupied it there were 12,000. In that island there were 25,000 men capable of bearing arms. Was it likely that these 1,900 men could' keep down a hostile population to such an amount? In Cephalonia the British troops did not exceed 500 men, whilst the population capable of bearing arms amounted to 35,000. In Santa Maura the British troops did not exceed 350 men, whilst the population capable of bearing arms amounted to 15,000. In the other islands there were not above 60 British soldiers. He would, therefore, ask the hon. member, whether he meant to say that the inhabitants of the Ionian Islands were kept down by such a mere handful of troops? If he did, was he not, by representing them as tamely submitting to this thraldom, degrading the parties in whose favour he pretended to come forward? The hon. member had also objected to the occupation of these islands, on the ground of the
 659 l. l. vivâ voce, 660
 Mr. Wilmot   said, he considered the agents of the greatest importance to the colonies and knew that the same opinion
 656
 The Speaker  said, he thought there was no occasion for going into a committee of the whole House, for the purpose of introducing this bill. The present act of parliament enabled the trustees to make the bargain from year to year it was dear, therefore, that they had the power of making it for the present year. The bill which the chancellor of the exchequer now wished to introduce, was to enable government to make the bargain for five years; and was, therefore, only a bill to amend the existing act. The reason why the House went into a committee upon a loan, was, that the loan was generally raised for the service of the current year. Now, the trustees had received power to sell annuities for the present year; and, therefore, he was of opinion, that the bill might be introduced without going into a Committee.
 Sir G. Hill  complained that, after what had been done with respect to Ireland last year, sufficient notice had not been given to enable the persons interested in the subject to offer their opposition to the measure. Notwithstanding this, it was now proposed to legislate in their absence, and he could not help thinking it was unfair. He complained particularly of the hardship which the enforcement of transit duty would be upon the Irish manufacturers.
 Sir I. Coffin  approved of the bill, not only because it afforded additional protection to the merchant service, but because it was calculated to maintain the naval strength of the country.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, he would support the amendment, on the ground of public economy.
 Sir J. Newport  was of opinion, that the papers ought not to be produced, because their production might tend to obstruct the course of justice. He did not think them necessary to enable the House to come to a just decision upon the question. The reasoning of his learned friend who had just sat down, amounted to nothing more than this—that the House having already embarked in error, ought to proceed in that course. The motion was liable to a strong objection, which did not apply to the former motion; namely, that by the production of the papers, third parties would be liable to have actions brought against them, and to the infliction of penalties. He should vote against it.
 Sir T. Baring  was of opinion, that no grounds had been laid for the indulgence requested. He understood that a letter had been received from Mr. Harris, who was an auctioneer, stating, that he was that day attending the appraisement of goods, and that it was therefore quite impossible that he could spare time to attend the House.
 Mr. Bernal  strongly urged the claims of the petitioners to the attention of the House. It could not be contended, upon the proclamation of 1763, that Cape Breton was put on a different footing from the other ceded colonies. It would be quite as legal to deprive Grenada of its separate assembly as to unite Cape Breton to Nova Scotia. The hon. secretary had said, that the people had no grievances to complain of. Was it no grievance to be taxed for the debt of Nova Scotia; that their metallic currency should be withdrawn, and that they should be inundated with a depreciated paper currency? Was it no grievance that the laws of inheritance were altered? If the colonists had made no communication to the colonial office, it was probably because they thought that representation in that quarter would be of no use.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  trusted, that the grounds on which he should oppose the motion would appear satisfactory to the House. The hon. member was aware, that any saving which might be made in this branch of expenditure was by law directed to be carried to the account of the consolidated fund. It necessarily followed, that the amount of that saving appeared, in due course, in the papers laid before parliament. He fully admitted the right of the House to watch over the expenditure of the crown; but he thought it would not be a wise exercise of that right to call upon the crown to state every specific appointment, and in fact the grounds of every alteration, in the arrangements of this, department. This, indeed, would be put the House in the place of the executive. He was ready to admit, that certain changes were
 693
 Mr. Huskisson  objected to the motion. A report would hereafter he laid on the table of the House, which would enable them to judge of the reductions and of the savings which had been made. By law, these savings were all carried to the consolidated fund. It had been a principle laid down by Mr. Fox, that the
 694
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that as prophets had no honour in their own country, so great men were rarely quoted till after they were dead, and then they had generally the misfortune to be misquoted. He could not say exactly what Mr. Fox had stated, but he was quite sure he never could have laid down the principle attributed to him by the right hon. gentleman. What Mr. Fox had said was probably this—that it never had been customary for parliament to interfere with the private expenses of the royal family. The present question had no other object but to procure certain information respecting one branch of our enormous expenditure. On this subject, there seemed to be something like sympathy between our government and that of France, to which our ministers always appealed when they were endeavouring to justify their own extravagance. But what must be thought when, after all this enormous expenditure, this country seemed deprived of all influence abroad? Was it not time to call on parliament to examine how these sums were employed? This was a part, of the civil list over which the House ought to keep a most watchful eye. It was the duty of that House, and particularly at the present moment, when the character of the country had been so de-
 695
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, he rose to move for Copies of the Proceedings of a Court of Inquiry on colonel Home, of the Third Regiment of Guards. The case of that officer was, in his opinion, one of great importance; and, though he might despair of succeeding in the application which he felt it his duty to make to the House, he did not despair of the success, which would arise from the impression which that officer's case could not fail to make upon the public. Having obtained information, which he believed to be correct, he felt himself called upon, in justice to the character of that injured officer, and to the institutions of the army, to bring his case under the consideration of the House. It was necessary to premise, that this officer was not undistinguished in the military history of the country. He entered the service in 1803, had served in the Peninsula, in Germany, and wherever his regiment was engaged; and in the last great conflict at Waterloo, had conspicuously distinguished himself, in that post which was technically and emphatically called the key of the position—the post of Hogoumont. This officer, when he returned home, had the misfortune to engage in an unprofitable mining concern, relying upon representations, which sub-
 696 697 698 699 700
 Dr. Lushington  said, there never had been a colony, so neglected as that of Newfoundland. He wished to know whether the details, of a measure which affected the concerns of 60,000 persons,
 703
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the trade of Newfoundland was ruined by the last treaty concluded with America, he was the guilty person; as he had signed that treaty. He alluded not to the treaty of Ghent, but to that of 1818. He did not consider the effect of that treaty to be such as had been described. The House, however, ought to bear in mind the circumstances under which it was concluded. A question of great delicacy and importance was then under discussion, which was this, whether the fact of a declaration of war having since taken place, altered the rights which had been given to America by the treaty of 1783? On the part of America, it was contended, that the re-establishment of peace between the two countries,  ipso facto, 704
 Dr. Lushington  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws respecting Forgery. He wished to correct certain defective enactments, but did not propose to alter the punishment of the crime. He did not wish to inflict capital punishment where it was not at present inflicted, nor to take it away from those crimes to which it was now applied. He proposed, however, to make certain offences penal which could not be punished at present. The destruction of a will was one of these. That offence was not properly provided against at present; yet the crime was not one of rare occurrence. His intention was to bring in the bill, in order that it might stand over to next session. The learned member concluded by moving, "for leave to bring in a bill to consolidate, amend, and declare certain general provisions relating to the crime of Forgery."—"—The motion was agreed to.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that after the able report of the commissioner of inquiry, but remained for him, offer on the subject
 705
 Lord John Russell  supported the motion, and contended that the House would act inconsistently in not agreeing to it, as it had agreed to the motion of last year, which had called for the return already before the House. He was glad to hear that the embassy to Switzerland was to be reduced. When that subject was discussed last year, the minority were few in number; but the projected reduction proved, that a minority were sometimes in the right.
 Lord John Russell,  adverting to the war which was apparently about to commence between France and Spain, observed, that it was highly important the House should be informed of the true situation of this country, with regard to the approaching contest. He therefore begged to ask the right hon. secretary, whether there were any stipulations, in any treaties, by which this country guaranteed the throne of France to Louis the 18th, and his successors?
 Lord John Russell  said, he considered that the invasion of Spain by the Bourbons totally altered our relations with France. After Great Britain had spent, it appeared fruitlessly, no less than a thousand millions, in the hope that the re-establishment of that family would secure the blessings of peace to Europe, it was now incumbent on the government of this country to clear itself of all stipulations which might involve it in still further expense for the support of that family.
 Mr. Tulk  described the island of Newfoundland to be in a state of absolute ruin. A measure so important as the present, ought not only to be made well known to those connected with Newfoundland in this country, but time ought to be afforded to make the inhabitants acquainted with its provisions.
 Mr. Canning  replied, that in a matter of a nature so grave, he would not return a positive answer, as he could not recall to his memory all the treaties, with all their stipulations, which might exist. There was, however, a stipulation in existence, by which any attempt made to resume the crown of France by any members of the family of the late usurper was to be resisted by all the great powers of Europe. There was also a stipulation, that, in the event of a rebellion breaking out in France, Austria, Russia, and England, should meet, and concert the measures necessary to be taken.
 Mr. Canning  said, he had been asked as to a fact, and had not given an opinion He had observed, that in case of an attempt to restore the family of the usurper, the allies were bound to act in concert against it; and he had further stated, that in case of rebellion or other revolutions, the allies were only bound to meet and consult together.
 Mr. Bright  said, that this was a question which involved the interest of all the colonies. The treatment of Cape Breton was one of extreme injustice. That colony was important from its situation; it was one of the fortresses of England; it commanded the entrance of the Great St. Lawrence and the fishery Newfoundland; and it was, therefore, an obvious matter of policy to see that the inhabitants were attached to Great Britain by justice and by kindness. The rights of the colonies should be protected, whether they were founded on English law, or on long usage.
 Mr. Bright  thought, before they proceeded to legislate on this subject, that more information, as to the state of the colony, ought to be afforded.
 Mr. Hume  thought, that a bill which went to change the internal economy of the settlement, ought not to have been proposed but upon information adduced before a committee. If the people of the colony had made complaints of the existing system of law, those complaints ought to be laid on the table; and if they had not complaints, he did not see what necessity ministers had to legislate in the dark, in a case which affected the interest of a population of 60,000 souls.
 Mr. Hume  defended the colonists from the charge of delay. A meeting of the inhabitants had taken place at Sydney,
 691
 Mr. Hume  trusted the right hon. secretary would not press his opposition to this motion. His predecessor in office had not refused a similar return. If the right hon. gentleman really wished for a fair discussion of the motion to be hereafter made by his hon. friend, he would not refuse the required information. Without it, his hon. friend, in arguing upon the expense of any particular embassy, might he met by a statement, that that embassy had been reduced, since the papers now before the House had been presented. If he persisted in refusing the information, the House would know what it had to expect from the candor of the right hon. gentleman in future.
 Mr. Hume  said, he held in his hand a petition from a numerous body of the freeholders and others of the town of Sydney, in the island of Cape Breton, which he considered to be most important, involving, as it did, principles not confined to Cape Breton, but applicable to every colony in his majesty's dominions. That the House might better understand the prayer of the petition, it was necessary to recall to their minds that, at the close of the war of 1763, certain colonies were
 685 686 687 l. l. 688 l.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he felt deeply for the interests of Newfoundland, and would rejoice at the introduction of any measure likely to tend to her prosperity; but he thought the root of the evil which was destroying that colony had been laid in the last treaty with America; which; by allowing the Americans to fish in the waters and to dry their fish on the coast, had occasioned the loss of almost the whole trade to Newfoundland, as the Americans, by their local advantages, were enabled to undersell the British merchants.
 Mr. Lennard  rose to bring forward his motion relative to the Foreign Embassies. Similar information to that which he now meant to move for had been before laid on the table of the House. His intention was to ground a motion upon it for further reduction in the third class of the civil list. If a report which was in circulation was true, the mission to the Swiss Cantons was about to be reduced. This proved the benefit of public discussion. That gross job would never have been abolished but for the notice taken of it in that House. The sum voted for this branch of expenditure was greater than all the secret service money. He would, therefore, move, "That there be laid before this House, a Return of any decrease of expense, since the 2nd of May, 1822, that has taken place in the Third Class of the Civil List; and stating whether such decrease, if any, has been occasioned by a diminution in the number of persons employed on Embassies, or by an alteration of the rank of persons so employed, or otherwise."
 Mr. Wilmot  observed, that if; as the hon. member had stated, this petition involved a great constitutional question, it would have been better to have given notice of a specific motion, than to have entered into it at such length on presenting the petition. He thought, however, he should be able to convince the hon.
 689 690
 Mr. Wilmot  said, that the measure was brought in upon the responsibility of government.
 Mr. Wilmot  moved for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws in Newfoundland. It was his intention to have the bill printed, and to take the debate upon the second reading. The bill had three general objects; first, the amendment of the laws respecting the fisheries; second, the improvement of the courts of justice; and lastly, the institution of a local power to make bye laws under certain circumstances.
 Sir R. Wilson  said, he had formerly put a similar question to a late noble lord, and had received from him a positive assurance, that we had not guaranteed the throne of France to the Bourbons. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would
 692
 Sir J. Newport  considered the proposition to be of a novel nature, since it went to supply an improved system of judicature, while it left that which was defective to exist at the same time.
 Sir J. Newport  expressed his satisfaction at the prospect of a change, which he was confident would be attended with great advantage both to the revenue and the merchants.
 Lord Palmerston  said, he would leave the military character of colonel Home out of view, as it had really as little to do with the present question, as that question, in his opinion, had with parliamentary inquiry. The case was as plain as it was brief. Colonel Home had entered into a certain mercantile speculation; and, when he found that speculation was not likely to be profitable, he had attempted to withdraw his capital, by means which had been thought unjustifiable. He had become a partner by purchasing shares; and that he was ignorant of the terms of the co-partnery, would have been no excuse for his conduct, seeing that he ought to have informed himself of the grounds upon which he had invested his capital. Finding that the speculation was not likely to turn out well, he had attempted, in the manner which had been stated, to withdraw his capital. The whole capital was 27,000 l., l. 701 702
 The Attorney-General  said, it was not his intention to enter into any defence of the societies of which the hon. gentleman complained in presenting the petition; but he should be deceived if, after the observations made, and the extracts read by the hon. member for Devonshire, indeed it was impossible, he thought, that there could be a single person in that House who could concur in the charges against the prosecution of those persons. The hon. gentleman who presented the peti-
 720 721 l. l. 722
 Mr. Secretary Peel  did not rise to reply to all the arguments which had been brought forward on the opposite side, but rather to state the grounds on which he could not recommend the individual in question to the mercy of the crown. The law of the country made it a crime to make any attempt to deprive the lower classes of their belief in the consolations of religion; and while this law remained
 725 l.
 Sir F. Burdett  complimented the hon. member who had brought forward the
 726 727 l. 728 corpus delicti l. 729 ex officio;
 Sir F. Burdett  explained. He did not suppose that contrition was a  sine quâ non.
 Mr. Wynn  denied the doctrine, that no publication of mere matters of opinion could be libellous. The defence set up by the hon. member who had just sat down for these blasphemous publications might be equally applied to the obscene publications, which he himself wished to put down. He would put the case of a person who believed in no religion, and who held that the promiscuous intercourse of the sexes was neither dangerous nor indecorous; and he would further suppose him to publish a book in conformity with these opinions, and in which he should endeavour, by argument and exhortation, to promote their propagation. Could it be pretended that such a publication would not be libellous? The same impunity which the hon. gentleman would extend to blasphemous publications, would, in his view of the argument, apply also to political libels. Acts of regicide might be defended, and it might be contended with impunity, that the kingly power was opposed to the liberties of mankind, and that every individual who killed a king did mankind a service, by ridding them of a tyrant, and was con-
 735
 Mr. Wynn. — If the hon. member was of this opinion, other men might not deem themselves equally invulnerable.—What would be the effect of this doctrine, as applied to women? Was there any female, whose reputation could stand against a series of attacks, if allowed to pass unpunished, or if obliged constantly to come forward and vindicate her character in the newspapers, by proving the falsehood and malignity of her calumniators? An hon. member sitting near the member for Aberdeen (Mr. Bennet) had come forward very properly to vindicate the character of a female against one of those unmanly attacks, by prosecuting the calumniator. He thought it too much to contend, that the public were not entitled to the same protection, which was admitted on all hands to be necessary to the peace and security of private families.
 Mr. Gordon  defended the magistrates of Aberdeen, and affirmed, that, whatever money had been expended by them, was laid out for the benefit of the town.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, the weakness of the case of the noble lord was apparent from this single circumstance—that nearly one-half of the debate had been occupied in an attempt to criminate persons who had nothing to do with the matter. The whole of the charge against the magistrates of Inverness resolved itself into this: that not being able to find any maltman in Inverness, they had elected others. The noble lord had admitted the legality, but doubted the soundness of the discretion exercised by the crown; but, after what he had stated of the extent of the crime imputed to the magistrates, he would submit, that no case had been made out by the noble lord,
 744
 Mr. Forbes  said, that the statements of the noble lord on this subject had been so often made, and so often refuted, that he wondered how the House could any longer listen to them with patience. He wished the noble lord would chuse some other hobby, and ride it less unmercifully than he had done the Scotch burghs.
 Sir R. Fergusson  vindicated his noble friend from the charge of having made an attack on the personal character of the Scottish magistracy. The question here was, whether the crown, when a burgh had been disfranchised, had a right to interfere in the election of its magistrates? He thought it clearly had no such right; but that the burgesses, in such a case, had a right to elect their magistrates by poll.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that in rising to object to the motion, he felt no wish to resist the production of any document from which useful information could be elicited. The warrant complained of had not been issued by the crown on the advice of ministers, but on the advice of the privy council of Great Britain; and it authorized the magistrates to make that election which they had previously a right to make by law. He hoped to convince the House, that in issuing the warrant, a wise and a sound discretion had been exercised. With respect to the petition presented from two brothers of the name of Young, complaining of oppressive conduct on the part of the magistrates, he could now state, that nothing had been done by the magistrates with respect to those individuals, which the noble lord himself would not have done under similar circumstances. The learned lord then went through the case of the petitioners; and read a legal opinion, in which the advocate laid it down as the law of Scotland,
 742 omnium bonorum l. 743
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if, during the closing years of the late war, there were but few occasions, or at least, fewer than had once been the case, in which parliament was called upon to address the crown, on subjects similar to that to which it was now his duty to call the attention of the House, that circumstance arose, not from any want of valour, or enterprise, or credit, or renown, on the part of those who conducted the naval service of this kingdom; but it arose from the singular circumstance, that, in the earlier part of the late war, the exploits of our navy had annihilated, as he might say, those powerful means of resistance which the enemy possessed; and which exploits then gave frequent occasion for addresses similar to that which he was about to propose. It would not be necessary for him to trouble the House at any length on the present subject; but he would say, that, if the recent rarity of these occasions had deprived the House of the opportunity of testifying the gratitude which it owed to those who had devoted their lives to the service of their country, he thought that that was an additional reason why, after so long enjoying all the advantages of that security, which the efforts of our navy had conferred on us; if, in the time of peace, there should occur such an event as the death of a brave admiral, covered with years and glory, it should be the duty of the House to take care that his remains should not sink into an obscure grave. He thought it would be consistent with their feelings, as it would be with their duty, not to forget, merely from the length of time that might have elapsed since the period when great naval services had been rendered by distinguished men, the true value of those services; but rather to hold out to succeeding ages the benefit of their great example. He was sure it was not necessary for him to trouble the House with any details of the lives and general services of the two great officers, to whose merits he was about to call its attention. To say of both that they had entered the service of
 746 747 748 749
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, it was with extreme regret that he rose to make a motion on a subject of so much importance, at a time when the House was so thinly attended. The interests of 500,000 persons and of sixty royal burghs were involved in the subject on which he was about to speak; but, however unpleasant it might be to him to execute such a duty, in so thin a House, he should proceed to the task. He had so often complained to the House of the grievances sustained by the Scotch burghs, that no one could be surprised if,
 736 l. 737 738 l. l. 739 l. 740 l. l. omnium bonorum 741 s. l. l. l.
 Lord A. Hamilton , in reply, begged to repeat, that a grosser case than that of Aberdeen was never heard of. The corporation was bankrupt to the amount of 130,000 l. l.
 Mr. Ricardo  trusted that the House would excuse him if he ventured to say a few words upon this petition. The hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, appeared to conceive, that Mary Ann Carlile would have been entitled to some lenity, had she expressed contrition for her past offences, or had she stated any change to have taken place in her religious sentiments. Now, they were bound in common justice, to consider that the petitioner was expressing her own sentiments in the libel of which she had been found guilty. The demand, therefore, of time attorney-general was, that she must acknowledge that to be right, which she conscientiously believed to be wrong, before she could entitle herself to any lenity; or, in other words, that she must commit an act of the, most shameless duplicity, in order to become a proper object for the mercy of the crown. While upon that subject, he must be permitted to find fault with a rule that prevailed in the courts of justice. A witness, before he was examined was asked whether he believed in a future state: if he replied that he did not, his oath could not he taken. Supposing that an individual did not believe in a future state,
 723 vice versâ. 724 s.
 Mr. Cumming  bore testimony to the local improvements which had taken place in Inverness.
 Mr. Hume  stated, that this great mistake ran through the whole of the argument of the learned lord, that he mixed up self-election, on which there was no discussion, with the issue of the warrant, founded on a discretionary power. He contended, that what the learned lord stated to be the uniform practice, rested only on the exception to the general rule—which was, for the crown to issue a warrant to the inhabitants to elect the magistrates. He commented upon the conduct of the magistrates of Aberdeen, who, however respectable in their private character, deserved no credit for their public conduct. They had laid out the public money extravagantly, and without reference to utility; for instance, they had thrown an arch of granite 120 feet wide over a puddle that he could with ease leap over. As to the improvements of the harbour, though he admitted that the trade had increased, it was in spite of the supposed improvements, and not in consequence of them. The rates had been doubled. From time increased expense, one of the most valuable articles of export, stone, was now sent by land-carriage; and as to the finances, with those the magistrates had nothing to do, as they were under the management of trustees, by whom, he was happy to say, they were much better managed than they had formerly been.
 Mr. Hume. — At perfect liberty.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as no objection had been made to the receiving of this petition, he took it for granted that the printing of it would not be opposed. He could not make this motion, however, without expressing his astonishment at the conduct of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, who, after professing himself the enemy of all persecution, had concluded by entreating the House to encourage and continue a system of persecution. As to the Society of which the hon. gentleman stood forward as the champion, it had increased the mischief which it pretended to remove. No fewer than thirty-two victims had been dragged by this Society before courts of law, every one of whom it was their boast that they had convicted; and what was the result? Why, as fast as the prisons were filled with victims, individuals pressed forward eager to become martyrs, and oppose a system of persecution by a participation in the sufferings inflicted by their oppressors. He entreated the right hon. secretary for the home department to consider the policy of supporting these pretended friends, but real enemies of the cause of public morality; for, by upholding such a system, he would consult neither the morals nor the feelings of the country. The hon. member for Bramber had made an appeal rather to the passions than to the judgment of the House, and he (Mr. Hume) entreated him, if he had all the regard he professed for the religion of the country, and for the peace and happiness of families, to pause before he again assisted in propagating what he himself designated as poison, by advocating a system of persecution. Let him attend rather to the excellent advice of a divine, whose writings were no doubt familiar to him, but whose sound and judicious doctrine with reference to this subject, differed widely from those which he (Mr. Wilberforce) had advanced to-night. "The proper punishment," said Dr. Lardner, "for a low, mean, indecent, scurrilous way of writing, seems to be neglect, contempt, scorn and general indignation. This punishment
 733 734
 Mr. Hume , in presenting a petition from Mary Ann Carlile, complaining of hardship, and praying for redress, felt it necessary to state, that he was aware there was a great prejudice against the name of Carlile; but he hoped the House would, in the present case, divest itself of all prejudice against her, on account of her brother. He conceived that a very important principle was involved in the case of Mary Ann Carlile. The prosecution against her was instituted, not by the attorney or solicitor-general, who he (Mr.Hume) conceived were the only legal preservers of the peace and good morals of the community; but by societies which he had long viewed with great jealousy, namely, the Society for the Suppression of Vice, and the Constitutional Association. These societies were little better than conspiracies against the liberty of the subject; and the individuals prosecuted by them might be justly considered as their victims. By a joint purse they were enabled to bear down individuals even in point of expense; and thus render it quite useless to make resistance. The operation which their influence was calculated to produce on the minds of a jury was no small matter. Such had been the case in trials; but he was desirous of confining himself strictly to the present case. He had had the petition in his possession exactly one month. He had been unwilling to present it, until he could ascertain who had been the petitioner's prosecutors. She was tried on the same day at the suit of the Constitutional Association for a seditious libel, and acquitted, and at the suit of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, and found guilty. He had been anxious to discover who the prosecutors in the latter case were; but he had been ten or fourteen days in finding out the members of the Society for Vice, [a laugh]. Well! he could prove, that the Society was one, not for suppression, but for the promotion of vice. On inquiry, he understood that there had not been a list of the members published
 710 711 712 713 ipse dixit ipse dixit ipse dixit l. 714 l. l. l. l. l. 715
 Mr. Peel  said, he had never stated, as the hon. baronet seemed to think, that contrition was a  sina quâ non
 Mr. W. Smith  thought, that, without casting any personal reflections on the magistracy in question, it must be admitted, that when gentlemen came into office, there was a certain  esprit de corps
 Mr. Wilberforce  defended the Society for the Suppression of Vice. The hon. member for Portarlington seemed to carry into more weighty matters those principles of free trade which he had sp successfully expounded. Ours was the only free country which had ever existed in which there was no special tribunal for the protection of religion and morals. In all the republics of antiquity, in Athens, Sparta, in Rome, there were such tribunals, and in these states morals and religion were considered as the foundations, not only
 730 731 732
 Sir T. D. Acland  said, there was no occasion on which it was more painful for him to speak, than in endeavouring to
 717 718 719
 The Lord Mayor  presented a petition from 1,600 merchants, bankers, and traders of the city of London, praying for some alterations in the Insolvent Debtors' act. He said, he presented this petition with pleasure, not merely as chief magistrate, and chairman of the meeting at the Mansion-house, but also as a member of parliament, being perfectly convinced that this act, originating in benevolent and pure motives, had given rise to more fraud and robbery than it was possible for him to describe. This feeling was, he said, now universal, and all parts of the country were as desirous as the metropolis to procure some change in its provisions. It was unnecessary for him to go at length into a subject so much discussed, but he would beg to suggest these alterations in particular; that the first step in taking the benefit of this act should be an act of bankruptcy, thus leaving the creditor the option of availing himself of that mode of proceeding; that the consent of a part, at least, of the creditors should be necessary to the discharge of the debtor; and that the detaining creditor should no longer be at liberty, at his own pleasure, to relieve the insolvent. As this act was only a measure of experiment, which had been found to fail, he sincerely hoped that it would be speedily and effectually amended.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he did not rise to take any part in the discussion; but rather to induce hon. gentlemen to postpone any further observations until the proper time should arrive. It was a subject so important, that he had no hesitation m saying, that great practical results must, in some way or other, proceed from the consideration of it. But of this he was sure, that such incidental and premature discussions as the present must materially diminish the chance of obtaining a result of a beneficial or effective character. It was unnecessary for him, who, during the whole of his parliamentary life, from its beginning until the triumph of his hon. friend, the member for Bramber, had taken a humble part in the cause of the abolition of the slave trade, to say, that it was not possible he could entertain any feeling which would induce him to oppose himself to a fair consideration of the question of emancipation. But he was sure that his hon. friend himself would agree with him, and that the House would have his hon. friend's example in support of the proposition that it was not by inflaming the passions, that the cause of humanity could be
 771
 Mr. Alderman Wood  expressed similar opinions. All that the petitioners required was, not severity, but justice.
 Lord W. Fitzgerald,  sir John Newport, alderman C. Smith, Mr. Frankland Lewis, and Mr. Thomas Wilson, severally supported the prayer of the petition, and expatiated on the severity of this tax.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he did not rise to enter into the various topics introduced upon the question of adjournment; indeed he doubted whether he should have risen at all, but for the question put to him by the hon. gentleman who spoke last, with reference to a conversation of a few nights ago upon the existing treaties to which this country was a party. The
 787 788 789
 Mr. Macdonald,  in conjunction with his noble friend, declared, that he could by no means acquiesce in the propriety of so long an adjournment as the right hon. secretary had proposed, at the precise moment when a struggle of unexampled interest had commenced, which was lo decide whether the term "independence of nations" was any longer to be found in the vocabulary of mankind. For he thought he might say, that this struggle had commenced, seeing that a delicate prince had sallied forth, amid hail and snow, accompanied by a large retinue of led horses and soft carriages, to put himself at the head of 60,000 men,
 777 778 779 780 781 782 783 784 ipso facto 785 bonâfide, 786
 Lord A. Hamilton  rose to object to the motion. He considered the period of adjournment proposed by the right hon. gentleman too long, and he would attempt to curtail it, by moving, as an amendment, that the House should adjourn only to Monday se'nnight. He
 772 773 774 per se 775 776
 Mr. Littleton  defended the continuance of these duties for a longer period, on the ground, that many capitals having been invested by individuals in coal-property, in different parts of the country, under such a system of duties, too sudden a repeal of the tax would be the occasion of very materially injuring those who were at present very extensively interested in coal-property.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he thought the House had some right to complain of the manner in which all questions relating to
 758 "Turk, Infidel, or Atheist May enter here—but not a Papist." 759 760 761 762 763 764 765
 Mr. Bright  said, he felt himself impelled, by a strong sense of duty, to notice the gross exaggerations which the petition contained; such, for instance, as that there was not a negro on whom the marks of the lash were not visible. He was perfectly confident, that if the allegations of the petition were strictly examined, they would be found to contain a much larger portion of falsehood than of truth. As to the character of the individual to whose authority the petitioners referred, he knew nothing respecting it. But it appeared that that person had been sent out as a missionary to his estate by a benevolent planter, who had proved the humanity of his disposition by reducing the labour which used to be performed by his slaves one-fourth. After having been so sent out, what did that person do? He was three years, and he complained that he had been allowed to preach to the negroes only eleven times a year; but preaching was not the way to ameliorate the condition of the slaves. His duty was to have visited them; to have seen to their wants; to have relieved their necessities. The individual in question, however, had too much spiritual pride to do any thing but preach; and yet it was on the authority of such a man that the petitioners called on the House to believe the allegations of their petition. The hon. member for Southwark had referred to the conduct of the republic of Colombia as an example to be followed by England with regard to the slaves in the West Indies. Now the conduct of the Colombian republic could furnish no precedent for this country. The number of slaves in Colom-
 770
 Mr. Bright  explained, that he was not personally acquainted with the individual referred to.
 Sir J. Graham  next presented a similar petition from the vestry and directors of the poor of the parish of St. Pancras. The hon. baronet observed, that he could imagine no duties of a more impolitic nature than these upon coals; seeing that they had a direct tendency to discourage a trade which was the best nursery of lour gallant seamen.
 Sir James Graham  presented a petition, which he observed was most respectably signed, being subscribed by many of the principal inhabi-
 750
 Mr. Curwen  said, he had great pleasure in supporting the prayer of the petition. Nothing could show the mischievous tendency of these duties more than the fact, that one-third at least of all the coal dug from the mines in Durham and Cumberland was wasted and lost, because it was of a quality that would not bear the duties in question, although it would perfectly answer the purposes of the poorer sort, if the tax was removed.
 Mr. Warre,  after pointing out a seeming contradiction between the treaty of Vienna and that of Aix-la-Chapelle, begged to ask the right hon. gentleman, whether the treaties into which this country had entered did, in effect, guarantee to the Bourbon family possession of the throne of France? He expressed his perfect conviction, that, among the papers soon to be laid upon the table, it would be found that the duke of Wellington had recalled to the recollection of the sovereigns at Verona, the protocol of the 5th of November, 1815, signed by the names of Metternich, Richelieu, Castlereagh, Wellington, Hardenberg, Bernsdorf, Nesselrode, and Capo d'lstria. It concluded by stating, that "in the case of this meeting having for their object affairs specially connected with the interests of the other states of Europe, they shall only take place in pursuance of a formal invitation, on the part of such of those states as the said affairs may concern." He begged to know whether Spain had been represented at the congress at Verona, and whether the invitation spoken of had been given to her? If not, the allies had been guilty of a violation of their own treaty. Whoever wished to come to the discussion of this subject three weeks hence, properly prepared, must refresh his memory by looking into the documents laid upon the table by the late marquis of Londonderry. He hoped to find in the papers to be submitted to the House a strong protest on the part of our ministers against all meddling at the congress with the affairs of Spain. He did not wish to prejudge them; but, from the weighty matters the House had to discuss, he was in favour of the shorter adjournment.
 Mr. Hume,  on the bringing up of the resolutions for
 766 s.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  testified to the great respectability of the petitioners, and declared his cordial concurrence in the prayer of the petition.
 Mr. T. P. Courtenay  moved for leave to bring in a bill "to amend the Laws regarding the maintenance and employment of the Poor." Leave was given, and the bill was brought in, and read a first time; and ordered to be read a second time on the 28th of April.
 Mr. T. P. Courtenay  moved for an account, 1. "Of the number of ships, with the amount of their tonnage, which have entered inwards, and cleared outwards, at the several ports of Great Britain, from and to the East Indies, for three years, ending the 5th January, 1823:—2. Of all goods exported from Great Britain to the East Indies and China, for three years, ending the 5th January, 1823, distinguishing each year; specifying the value of the principal articles, and also distinguishing India from China, so far as the same can be ascertained:—3. Of the value of all articles, being of the growth or manufacture of the United Kingdom, exported by the East India Company, from the year 1820–21, inclusive, to the latest period to which the same can be made up; distinguishing such as were exported as merchandize for sale, from those that were exported as stores; and distinguishing each year:—4. Of all goods, the produce of the East Indies and China, imported into, and exported from, Great Britain, for three years, ending the 5th January, 1823, distinguishing each year; specifying the quantities of the principal articles, and the aggregate value thereof; and also distinguishing the produce of India from China, so far as the same can be ascertained:—5. Of the amount of duties (of customs) received upon goods imported from the East Indies, for three years, ending the 5th January, 1823; distinguishing each year, and the principal articles:—6. Of all goods, of the produce of the East Indies and China, imported into Great Britain during each of the last three years; specifying the quantity and value of the principal articles imported, and stating the imports by the East India Company, distinct and separate from the free trade:—7. Of all goods exported from Great Britain to the East Indies and China, during each of the last three years; specifying the quantity and declared value of the principal articles exported, and stating the exports by the East India Company, distinct and separate from the free trade."—Ordered.
 Mr. T. Wilson  also supported the prayer of the petition.
 Colonel Bagwell  complained, that besides the government duties, the duty payable on coals in the ports of Ireland rendered it an extremely dear commodity to the people of that country.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he was very much inclined to follow the advice of the right hon. gentleman, though the personal attack of an hon. member, in a sort of parable, was very little calculated to put an end to discussion. Though he did not personally know the individual alluded to, he could, from what he had heard of him, give a direct contradiction to the imputation of the hon. member.
 Sir R. Wilson  said, that two years ago, he had given notice of a motion on the emancipation of slaves in the Cape of Good Hope, which he had given up on a promise from his majesty's government; but, as nothing had since been done, he had thought fit to call the attention of his majesty's ministers to the subject.
 Sir Robert Wilson  said, that the petition which he held in his hand, and which he was proud and happy to have the honour of presenting to the House, came from a certain number of the electors whom he had the happiness of representing. He was instructed to say, that this petition would have been submitted for signatures for a longer period, and would in that case, no doubt, have received the unanimous approbation of all the electors of Southwark, had there been time to allow of calling a meeting of those individuals before the Easter recess. It was, however, considered by the petitioners, and in his opinion very advisedly, that to wait for the convening of such a meeting would be inexpedient. They had therefore determined to present their petition before the recess; that the feeling of the country might be fully known upon it, and that public attention might be awakened to the proposition to which the hon. member for Bramber had recently called the attention of the House and the country; namely the abolition of slavery through-
 767 768 l. l. 769
 Colonel Davies,  seeing the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs in his place, wished to ask him, whether, when he should on Monday next lay upon the table of the house certain documents, it was his intention to enter into a general statement of the foreign policy of the government? If he were right in supposing that that was the intention of the right hon. secretary, the members on his side of the House would be placed in this embarrassing situation, that they must either combat the statement of the right hon. secretary, without having had access to the documents upon which it would be founded, or allow it to go forth to the world uncontradicted. He thought the fairest course for ministers to pursue would be, to lay the documents on the table on Monday, and to fix upon some subsequent day for the statement which the right hon. secretary had promised to make.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  replied, that the hon. member was perfectly right in supposing that it was his intention, when he should on Monday next, in obedience to the commands of his majesty, lay certain documents on the table of the House, to state the general outline of the policy which the British government had pursued with respect to the late transactions on the continent. But far from thinking that he would by so doing place the house under any embarrassment, he was of opinion that he was adopting the course which would be most convenient. The present case was not one of an ordinary character. It was not a usual practice of government, to lay documents on the table of the House, upon which they did not intend to call for some proceeding; but, in the present instance, it was intended to depart from the customary usage. That, however, would not preclude any member from adopting what course he might think expedient with respect to the papers. In most cases in which documents relative to negotiations had been laid before parliament, the negotiations had terminated in a declaration of war; and, on all such occasions, government had availed itself of the opportunity of stating to parliament, what had been the course of policy which had led to the issuing of the declaration of war. The
 802
 The Solicitor General  thought the hon. member was incorrect in his view of the law as it existed. All persons confined for non-payment of money pursuant to an order of court, were already entitled to their discharge under the insolvent act. Persons who remained in prison for contempts of court, were commonly persons who refused to do some act, within their power, which the court had ordered them to do: For instance, a case came before the lord-chancellor.—Upon investigation, it was decided that one of the parties ought to do a particular act; such as the execution of a deed or instrument. Under such circumstances (and the case was a case of every day), the court had no power to compel the execution of the deed or instrument in question: all it could do, was, to imprison for refusal. To deprive the court of the power to imprison was, in effect, to nullify its jurisdiction; and surely the party suffering had no right to complain of a confinement to which he could put an end when he thought proper. As for cases of persons committed for disrespect to a court, it could not but be within the knowledge of the hon. member, that such individuals were always, after a
 811
 Mr. Secretary Peel  begged to disclaim any idea, of apportioning certain quantities of imprisonment to the liquidation of certain penalties. The lenity of the Crown would always be freely dispensed, but it could be dispensed only with a due regard to the circumstances of particular cases. Some portion of imprisonment, where a fine was not paid, became absolutely necessary; because, if fines were not exacted, they would of course cease to be paid altogether.
 Dr. Lushington  thought the present course, where persons refused to obey an order of court, inconvenient and ineffective. It frequently happened, that a man, under sentence for contempt, spent his money in prison, defrauding the party who was entitled to it. He thought it would be better where a man refused to execute any deed or settlement, that the judge should have power to execute it in his name.
 Mr. Ricardo  objected to the imposition of a fine by a judge, afterwards to be remitted by a secretary of state. A judge might as well pass but one sentence—say death—for all crimes, and leave the government
 812
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he should not oppose any measure which could put the Church of Ireland on a better footing; but the question now really before the House was, whether they should levy a tax to the amount of 30 or 40,000 l. 807 l. s. l. 808
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for two returns connected with Crown priso-
 809 l. 810 l.
 Sir J. Newport  shortly replied, observing particularly upon the reluctance of the Church, not only to contribute their share to the support of the general burthens, but even to the maintenance of their own poorer clergy.
 Sir John Newport  rose, in pursuance of notice, to bring forward his motion for levying in a more effectual manner, the First Fruits of the Clergy of Ireland. The right hon. baronet observed, that so long ago as 1808, he had brought this subject before the attention of the House, and the importance of it was every day becoming more manifest. It was well known, that the revenue arising from the first fruits of benefices in Ireland, was in the hands of trustees for the purchasing of glebes, and the building of glebe-houses for the clergy of Ireland; but that the revenue arising from this source was so small, that large sums were annually voted to supply its deficiencies. It would be necessary for him to give a short history of the origin of this fund, and of the muse of its present inadequate amount. The Annates, or first fruits, were, the whole first year's income of each ecclesiastical benefice, and, before the Reformation, were payable in Ireland, as in other countries, to the pope. By statutes of Henry 8th, when the papal rights in Ireland were extinguished, this revenue, together with the twentieths or yearly twelve-pence in the pound, payable also to the pope from every benefice, was taken into the hands of the Crown, and remained annexed to the Crown till the year 1710. In that year queen Anne, on the advice of the duke of Ormond, or of the lord treasurer Oxford (for the supposed merit of this measure was claimed for both of them), remitted the twentieths to the clergy, and gave the first fruits to form a fund for the building of churches and
 803 l. l. l. l. l. 804 l. 805 
 1. "That the first fruits or annates, being the first year's income of every ecclesiastical dignity and benefice in Ireland, became at the Reformation, a part of the revenue of the Crown, as head of the church, and was regulated by the Irish statute of the 28th Henry 8th and continued annexed to the royal revenues until the year 1710. 2. "That her majesty queen Anne did then, as an act of grace and favour to the established church of Ireland, by letters patent confirmed by the authority of Parliament, vest in certain trustees and commissioners the produce of this branch of royal revenue, for the purposes of building and repairing Churches, for the purchase of glebes where wanting, and of impropriations wherever the benefice was not sufficient for the liberal maintenance of the clergy having cure of souls; and did at the same time absolutely release them from the payment of the twentieth parts, or twelve-pence in the pound, before paid annually to the Crown out of the income of all ecclesiastical benefices. 3. "That it appears, from returns laid before this House, that the gross amount of the first-fruit revenues thus vested in trust, and paid in to the commissioners, during ten years, ending in January 1821, amounted only to 3,752 l. l. l. l. 4. "That the grants of Parliament for building new Churches and Glebe-houses, and the purchase of Glebes, in Ireland, during eleven years, ending in 1818, amounted to 498,000 l., l., 5. "That 467 of the dignities and be-
 806 l. 6. "That the receipt and management of this revenue have been always reserved to, and continued in, officers appointed by the Crown; and that the duties thereof were, by letters patent, in the year 1812, entrusted to commissioners, with power, as therein specified, from time to time, to collect, levy, and receive, and to examine and search for the just and true value of all and singular the dignities and benefices of Ireland; but that no valuation appears to have been made under authority of this patent. 7. "That these resolutions be laid before his majesty, together with the humble representation of the House, that it appears just and equitable that this branch of royal revenue, liberally bestowed on the Church of Ireland for wise and salutary purposes, should be rendered efficacious for the attainment of the objects of royal bounty, without the necessity of annually increasing the public burthens by parliamentry grants; and that this House does therefore humbly pray, that his majesty may be pleased to authorize and direct the patentees of the Crown to proceed forthwith in the execution of such measures as may be deemed necessary to effect a just and true valuation of the several dignities and benefices of Ireland, and for rendering all such as shall be found to exceed the annual value of 150 l.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he could not, in justice to his own character, allow the allegations of the petition to pass without observation. The petition contained a statement which was calculated to produce an impression upon that House, that he, in the discharge of his duty as a public functionary, had imputed corrupt motives to the grand jury. It might, perhaps, be sufficient for him to leave that part of the charge against him, to the consideration of those who had heard the words imputed to him in the petition itself; for he was sure, that all who heard them must see that they conveyed no such meaning as that which the petitioners had ascribed to them. He would very shortly state the facts to the House, as they had really occurred. An indictment was presented to the grand jury for a conspiracy to cause a riot at the theatre, by which the person of the lord lieutenant was outraged and insulted; that indictment, the grand jury, acting upon their oaths, did not find. Other indictments were then presented to them for a riot and assault generally. These indictments contained two counts: the grand jury refused to find bills on the first count, but found them on the second, in such a manner, however, as to render their finding totally inoperative. When the
 818 ex officio 819 820 ex officio. ex officio 821 822 vice versa; cum multis aliis cum multis aliis. cum multis aliis
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not think it necessary on the present occasion to argue over again, the policy of the arrangement which had been made for apportioning the burthen occasioned by the naval and military pensions, and also by the civil superannuations. He deemed it, however, to be necessary to say a few words, regarding the arrangement which had been made on the recent bargain with the Bank. It would not have been necessary to trouble the House at all upon this occasion, had it not been for the imperfect manner in which the act of last session was worded. The words used seemed to exclude the trustees from making a bargain for a longer period than one year; whereas, the meaning of them was, that a larger sum of money should not be brought into the
 823 l. l. s. d.; l. s. d. l. l. l. l.; l. s. d.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that on the first appearance of this bill, he had given notice that he would propose its rejection and would take the sense of the House upon it. He now rose in pursuance o his promise to move, that the House do resolve itself into a committee on this bill upon that day six months. He was no prepared to quarrel with the terms of the arrangement; but he would say, that the right hon. gentleman was not justified in making such an arrangement with an public body whatsoever for more than one
 824 l. 825
 Mr. Maberly  said, he had expected, but in vain, to hear of some bonus and great advantage to result from the measure, from allowing all at once the Bank to become a purchaser of stock. He did think some good reason should be given for departing front this long established principle.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that public competition had been invited and nobody had bid, neither corporations nor individuals. It was only when this attempt had failed that recourse was had to the Bank. There was no reason to suppose that if an offer had been publicly made this year, that it would have been accepted. The transaction was not a job: it had been openly and fairly conducted.
 Mr. Baring  objected to giving to the Bank the power of stock-jobbing. He complained that the whole transaction was unintelligible, and that great loss would result to the country therefrom. Setting aside the absurdity of the measure, he believed it was a had bargain, and intended to deceive two classes of persons. The very fact stated by the chancellor of the exchequer, that nobody would bid for the annuities; was a proof of its absurdity. There was no want of capital in the country; there was in fact a great abundance of money; and when the offer of the chancellor found no bidders, it was a proof that his plan was a had one. He had hoped that the candour which distinguished the right hon. gentleman would have induced him to yield to the general feeling which prevailed on this subject he effect of the measure would be, to erect the Bank into a company of stockjobbers, and though he was not prepared to say that circumstances might not exist in which it might be expedient for the Bank to become purchasers of the public securities, yet he thought such a measure ought not to be resorted to without the strongest necessity. Another objection to this measure was, the time at which the government had made the bargain with the Bank. The three per cents were a short time ago, up at 83, but they had subsequently fallen to 73, from the probability of this country being involved in a war; and it was at the period of their lowest depression that the right hon. gentleman had thought proper to make his bargain with the Bank. Nor had the right hon. gentleman contented himself with merely making the bargain for the year; but, to show that the plan was perfectly feasible, and that it involved no bubble or delusion, he had made the contract for five years. The conduct of the government was equally improvident and ridiculous, whether we were likely to be embarked in a war or not. If we were not likely to go to war, there was every reason to suppose that the funds would recover, and the time for making the bargain was most improvidently chosen. If, on the other hand, this country were likely to be involved in the contest, then we were encumbering with this vast operation, the very institution to whose efforts we should look for the means of carrying on the war. In every point of view he could not but regard this measure as the most un-
 829
 Mr. Huskisson  said, the observations of the hon. member might have been applied well enough, in point of time, either to the principle of the measure when it was originated by the late chancellor of the exchequer, or to the discussions on the sinking fund which had taken place before the recess; but they were wholly irrelevant to the present question, which merely regarded the ratification of a particular contract with the Bank. He thought, that in the discussions which had taken place on the new-modelling of the sinking fund, the principle of the measure had been generally understood and agreed to by the House. With regard to the power of the Bank to hold stock, it must be in the recollection of the hon. mover, that the Bank held a million of the loyalty loan in the last war. In the present case, the Bank might keep the whole of the long annuities, and divide them among the proprietors of Bank stock, as in the instance of the loyalty loan. As to the time at which the bargain was made, the government could only take the market as they found it, in any transaction of this nature. It was impossible for them to determine whether the funds were likely to be higher or lower at any future period.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, it was true that the Bank held a million of the loyalty loan in the last war; but, a short time after the contract was concluded, it was suggested to them by their own solicitor, that it was made in direct violation of their charter, and they, therefore, divided the whole of the loan among the proprietors. In the present bill, however, there were two clauses; one expressly authorising the Bank to hold, and another to sell stock.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he could, from his own knowledge, assert, that more liberality, or a greater portion of charitable feeling, did not exist in any community than was to be found in Dublin. The hon. baronet had spoken of the disadvantages under which Ireland laboured, in consequence of the absence of many individuals of wealth and rank, whose duties obliged them to reside principally in this country. But there was another point which bore particularly hard on the city of Dublin. A great number of persons, from every part of Ireland, proceeded to Dublin, on their way to this country, where they hoped to procure a livelihood. The consequence was, that the poor of all sorts congregated there, and the ordinary sources of charity were inadequate to their support. He had himself officiated on charitable occasions in Dublin, and he never knew larger funds to be raised in any place for purposes of charity and benevolence. He had seen from 600 l. l.
 Lord A. Hamilton  did not rise to oppose the amount of the sum, but to express his dislike to the principle on which it was called for. The grant was for the establishment of the church of
 836
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that his meaning was, not that the church service in Ireland was worse performed, but that in many instances it was not performed at
 837
 Mr. Wetherell  said, he had been requested to present a petition from the Grand Jury of the city of Dublin, in the absence of the members for that city, one of whom was attending, his duties in Ireland. He had only yesterday received a letter requesting him to present the petition. There would not have been time to write to Dublin, and to receive an answer before Tuesday next, which was the day appointed for the motion of the hon. member for Armagh (Mr. Brownlow), otherwise he should have felt it is duty to inform the parties from whom he had received the petition, that he could do no more than merely present it to the House. The conduct of the grand jury to which the petition referred would form a distinct part of the debate on Tuesday next; and therefore he should be unwilling to anticipate the discussion upon that subject. The petition having, however, been placed in his hands for presentation, it would have been uncourteous on his part to refuse to bring it under the notice of the House, although he would not pledge himself to any particular line of conduct hereafter. The petition complained of some observations which had been made by the attorney-general for Ireland upon the conduct of the grand jury of Dublin, after they had thrown out the bills which that learned gentleman had preferred against the rioters in the Dublin theatre.
 Mr. Dawson  defended those Irish gentlemen whose public duties compelled them to remain in this country, from the imputation thrown out in so general a manner. If charities were to depend merely on individual bounty, we should soon have but few efficient charitable institutions. The resolution was agreed to. On the resolution, "That 2000 l.
 Mr. Dawson  adverted to the great increase that had taken place in the population of Dublin and other parts of Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he would take the subject into his consideration, with a view to the adoption, if possible, of some more advantageous plan for the application of these grants. He did not think that more than a due proportion of these grants was allotted for the education of Protestant children.
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against the general principle of the hon. member, that, because it was impossible to support the whole of the pauper population, no support of the kind should be bestowed.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was true that this vote was for an establishment for Protestant education; but it was not exclusively for the benefit of Protestants. It was an establishment in the strictest and most general sense charitable. So far from interfering with the duties of parents, the greater portion of the children were orphans.
 Mr. Goulburn  contended, that the institution had greatly tended to the improvement of the various manufactures of Ireland. It was impossible that it could maintain itself, because the subordinate classes of the people who received instruction from it, had no means of allowing any remuneration for the advantage.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the society was not merely founded for the purpose of preparing literary works, but to patronize lectures on different branches of art and science. There were six professors, who lectured on chemistry, botany, natural philosophy, &c. Those lectures were extremely well attended. Since professors had been appointed, many improvements in the useful arts had been effected, the benefit of which was felt by a large class of persons. There was another branch of the institution which had for its object the cultivation of the fine arts; and many individuals who had attained to great proficiency in those arts, owed their first advance to the instruction which they had received in that society. As soon as their funds allowed it, two students would be selected to prosecute the study of the fine arts in Rome.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that lord Blaney's letter merely went to show, not that there was no service performed, but that there ought to have been a resident rector as well as curate.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the noble lord seemed to imagine that this was a vote of 9,000 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the money for glebe-houses was only called for in advance; it was afterwards to be repaid to the public by the incumbents. The revenue of Ireland might not be equal to all the expenses of that kingdom; but the question ought to be considered with reference to the whole empire. It ought to be viewed, not so much one of a local as of a general nature. Wherever the government had built glebe-houses, and there had been a resident clergy, the effect had been to increase the num-
 839
 Mr. Grattan  confirmed the statement respecting the numerical decrease of the protestants, which he attributed to the manner of upholding the established church more by the amassing of enormous wealth than the adequate performance of religious duties. It was too much, under such circumstances, to come to parliament for grants which must be defrayed out of the pockets of the people, already too much oppressed by the intolerable weight of a system fraught with the elements of permanent disturbance in Ireland.
 Mr. Grattan  disapproved altogether of any interference with the Irish charitable institutions: and bore his testimony to the judicious administration of the houses of industry in Dublin.
 Mr. Monck  said, the hon. member for Aberdeen's proposition was perfectly correct. There was no distinction more obvious than that between duties of perfect and imperfect obligation. Nothing could be more unwise than an attempt to enforce, by legislative enactment, the performance of duties of imperfect obligation. The poor laws of England were a remarkable instance of this. His hon. friend did not propose that the children should be abandoned; but that they should be supported by the contributions of the rich, and not by the public purse. If the public performed this duty, it would have the effect of stifling the operation of charitable feeling, and would furnish an excuse to those who could afford it, to withhold their donations.
 Mr. Hume  said, he should like to know whether the chancellor of the exchequer had at all considered in what situation the public was likely to be at the termination of this annuity transaction? He had expected the right hon. gentleman to take some pains to show that, at the end of the
 826 l. l. l. l. l. 827 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. s. d.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in consequence of the explanation which had been given, he would withdraw the amendment he had proposed, and substitute in its stead a resolution, that the grant should be reduced to 13,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  adverted to the periodical increase of the sums granted to this institution, as an illustration of the system of charitable grants to different institutions of Ireland. At the time of the Union, the grant was only for 500 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had expected to see a considerable reduction in the Irish estimates of the present year. He regretted that he did not see upon the table certain returns for which he had moved, showing the revenue and expenditure of Ireland during the last three years. From those papers, when produced, it would appear that the expenditure of Ireland exceeded her revenue by 2,500,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  called on government to say, why the institution had not supported itself, and why the public were still called upon to support it.
 Mr. Hume  said, that when money was voted to an institution for one purpose, it ought not to be appropriated to another. If the improvement of agriculture was sought for, they had a Farming society, and why not directly vote money to them for that purpose? l.
 Mr. Hume  denied that the Irish government had reformed the abuses of the Irish established church, which he would contend remained at the present day, as notorious as they were when Mr. Grattan brought the subject before the Irish legislature. Since the year 1800, no less a sum than 703,994 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, the right hon. gentleman, when this subject was last before the committee, had appealed to the valuable publications that had been sent forth by the Dublin society, as a proof of the utility of that body. Where were those publications? He had indeed picked up some of their proceedings, and they certainly were the most childish proceedings he ever met with. He had the minutes of six of their proceedings, and they were really puerile. In one instance, a motion was made to pay 5 l. l. l. s. l. l. 835 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had last year taken the sense of the committee on this vote, because he conceived it to be money actually thrown away; and he was now more and more convinced, that the sum demanded, could not, as laid out by the society, operate any benefit to the coun-
 834
 Mr. Hume  asked why, if such an institution were good in Cork, it would not be equally good at Limerick, and other places? Why not, instead of burthening the public with the expense, let the persons who attended the lectures pay for them.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was very true, that many Irish gentlemen came over to this country; but did their land come with them? Why should they not apply a portion of their revenues to the support of these charities? Why should the public be called on to supply the funds? Such charitable grants were really not beneficial. If we wished to make Ireland happy, we must give them education, revise the existing tithe system, and discourage, as much as possible, the tendency to become absentees.
 Mr. Haldimand  supported the amendment, and contended that the measure was a mere delusion, intended to throw dust in the eyes of two classes of persons—those who desired a reduction of taxation, and those who wished to support public credit by means of a sinking fund.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that were he a bishop, he would look upon the proposer of such grants as these as the worst friend of the established church, for the effect of such propositions must be, to alienate men's minds from the establishment. He had heard from undoubted authority that in Ireland the number of the catholics was increasing, while that of the protestants was on the decrease. Where, then, were the practical benefits conferred on Ireland by the church establishment, adequate to the enormous amount of its expense, and the contention for the payment of its tithes?
 Sir F. Blake  expressed his surprise, that the present chancellor of the exchequer should have adopted this ricketty, ill-formed bantling of his predecessor. He would oppose the measure, because it militated against the chancellor of the exchequer's own principle, of not having any sinking fund, but what arose from surplus revenue. It was nothing but a legerdemain trick, to give with one hand and take away with the other. It was called the dead-weight bill; and indeed, it would be found a dead weight, to clog the wheels of government. It was
 "a monster of such frightful mien, "That to be hated, needs but to be seen."
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the recommendation of lord Blaney to the bishop of the diocese appeared to have been made in vain, although backed by the entreaties of 300 of the protestant parishioners. He meant to oppose this vote on two grounds; the first was, that it went to augment the funds of the higher orders of the clergy of Ireland, who were already greatly overpaid, and who, if not bound by law, were yet bound in honour to defray those expenses incidental to the performance of their duties, more particularly when it was considered that the hierarchy of that church received out of the pockets of the people hundreds of thousands more of emolument than was received by any other clergy in Europe. Would the world believe, that the three principal personages of the Irish episcopacy, who had died within the last fifteen years, had bequeathed to their families upwards of 700,000 l. l. 838
 Sir J. Newport  defended the institution, and said it had done great service, not only to Cork, but to other parts of Ireland. When first established, however, he allowed it was expected that it would eventually support itself.
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that the efforts of the society had produced a great improvement in agriculture.
 Sir J. Newport  thought there might be a more judicious application of the grants for the education of the Irish people, and hoped to see some beneficial alteration. He thought it would be advisable to reduce the number of scholars on the establishment, which was too exclusive and separate, and apply the grant to one of more general usefulness. Still, the modification must be left to the discretion of the public functionaries.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the Union having withdrawn the rich proprietors, prevented their charity from having that effect in Ireland which it would otherwise have. If the three millions annually brought over to England from Ireland, were expended in the latter country, not only would the poor be relieved, but every charitable establishment be adequately supported.
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that, in the diocese of Ossory alone, from 1737 to 1302, there had been an amazing decrease of protestants. So lately as in 1816, there had been an instance in which six vicarages were united into one benefice. He pledged himself that next session he would move the House to go into a committee on the state of the established church in Ireland, and to consider the report of the bishops thereon.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  appeared at the bar. Being called upon by the Speaker, he said he held in his hand Papers, which be was commanded by his Majesty to present to the House. The said Papers being accordingly brought up,
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose. He said, that in moving that their titles be read, he should, with the permission of the House, take advantage of the opportunity afforded by that formal motion, to redeem the pledge which he had given some weeks ago, by stating succinctly the course of conduct which had been pursued by his majesty's government, and the principles by which that conduct had been guided, in the important and complicated transactions to which the documents referred. In doing so, he felt that he was discharging a duty as awfully important as could at any time devolve upon the servant of a great monarchy and the minister of a free people. He was to account to the representatives of that people, for the manner in which the honour of the Crown had been upheld, and the interests of the country consulted, in a crisis of perhaps unexampled difficulty, and of which the consequences were yet unascertained. He mentioned this last consideration, because it was impossible not to be sensible, how much it added to the arduous nature of the task imposed upon him. If, indeed, the complete issue of all that had been recently passing had been known, it would be necessary only to shape the explanation and defence to that issue so ascertained; but he felt that
 873 874 875 publici juris, malveillance 876 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885 886 887 888 "It remains only to describe the conduct which it is his majesty's desire and intention to observe, in a conflict between two nations, to each of whom his majesty is bound by the ties of amity and alliance. The repeated disavowal, by his most Christian majesty's government, of all views of ambition and aggrandizement, forbids the suspicion of any design on the part of France to establish a permanent military occupation of Spain; or to force his Catholic majesty into any measures, derogatory to the independence of his crown, or to existing relations with other powers. The repeated assurances which his majesty has received, of the determination of France to respect the dominions of his most faithful majesty, relieve his majesty from any apprehension of being called upon to fulfil the obligations of that intimate defensive connexion which has so long subsisted between the crowns of Great Britain and Portugal
 889 890 891 de jure de facto; 892 893 894 895 896
 Mr. Canning , in explanation, observed that the hon. and learned gentleman had quite misunderstood him in attributing to him the assertion, that the war was a desperate enterprise on the part of France. He had not said a word as to the possible result of the war on one side or the other. He looked forward with satisfaction, to any opportunity which might be afforded him of answering any objections which might be made to the course which had been pursued by his majesty's government, and with a perfect confidence, that if that conduct were tried by any of those tests to which the policy of governments in their foreign relations could be fairly subjected, they would be found to have been uniformly actuated by a respect for the independence of nations, the faith of treaties, and the honour and interest of the nation.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he rose on this occasion not so much for the purpose of entering into the discussion of the many momentous topics which the right hon. gentleman had introduced in the course of his speech, as to vindicate himself and the gentlemen near him in the eyes of the country, for not now proceeding with the discussion, animated as they were by many of the sentiments which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman—sentiments which reflected the highest honour on his character. There were, no doubt, very many persons who did not thoroughly understand, why so great an abstinence had been exhibited, and for so long a period, on his side of the House. That circumstance he would explain. He was one of those who, when he heard in a distant part of the country, where he was professionally engaged, the course of proceeding which the right hon. gentleman intended to follow, could not see the expediency of adopting that course. The right hon. gentleman did not produce the papers in the first instance, that gentlemen might read them; he reversed the practice, by defending his conduct first, and afterwards producing the papers on which that defence was founded. Now, he must say, that the unfavourable impression which that mode of proceeding had originally communicated to his mind, was not altogether removed by the right hon. gentleman's statement: for it did so happen, that, having attended to his speech with the greatest possible care, he found himself left in the dark, up to the present moment, as to the precise and specific line of conduct which his majesty's government had pursued. The right hon. gentleman said, that strict neutrality was what the government had intended: he said, that they would give no assistance to Spain, or to the invaders of Spain; but, as to what extent they had laboured to avert it, and as to what representations they had made at Verona or at Paris upon these points, he was left wholly in the dark. Nay, there were some parts of the right hon. gentleman's narrative, which, from the curious omissions observable, led him to a conclusion directly the reverse of that which other parts of the statement would induce him to form. The right hon. gentleman having passed over, with a lightness at which he greatly marvelled, whatsoever had been done at Verona—having given no account of what had been said by the duke of Wel-
 898 hiatus valde deflendus 899 900 901 902 903
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that in rising on such an occasion as the present, the House would naturally suppose that he felt some degree of embarrassment. He had listened with great attention to the speech of the hon. gentleman. Many of the observations which had fallen from him were entitled to his entire approbation, and, allowing for some undue warmth which had characterised a portion of his speech, he was rather disposed to thank than to blame the hon. member for the temper in which he had brought forward this subject. But, at the same time that the hon. member had entitled himself to this acknowledgment, he could not but observe that he had indulged himself, in a very considerable degree of latitude, in the charge which he had felt it his duty to bring against the individual who now addressed the House. He could not help complaining, that when the hon. member brought forward a specific charge against him far having filed an ex officio information, after a bill of indictment had been ignored by the grand jury, he should have endeavoured, by all the powers of his eloquence, to involve him (Mr. P.)
 980 981 982 983 984 985 986 987 per totam curiam. ignoramus 988 ignoramus 989 990 991 ignoramus. 992 993 994 995 996 997 998 999 1000
 Colonel Barry  said, that three parts of the learned gentleman's vindication of his, conduct consisted or, a defence of the legality of his proceeding but nobody denied its legality. He had also tried to
 1001 1002 l. l. cum multis aliis,
 Mr. Secretary Canning  agreed entirely with the hon. and learned gentleman in the sentiments expressed in the conclud-
 1012 1013
 The Attorney-Gencral  said, that the learned gentleman found fault with the way in which the attorney-general for Ireland had exercised the power of filing an ex-officio information, although he admitted the power to file such information. As to the legality of the proceeding, the point was so plain, that even the learned gentleman could not have a doubt upon it. He said, that the attorney-general had not the power to file an information, after a bill of indictment had been ignored by the grand jury. He (the attorney-general) was of a different opinion. He considered the proceeding of his right hon. friend as perfectly legal. The learned gentleman had said, that the cases cited were not applicable to the point in issue. He would not fatigue the House by going into those cases; but he would insist on it, that they all fully established this principle, that a criminal information might be filed after a bill of indictment had been ignored.
 Mr. Brownlow  rose, to bring forward his motion respecting certain law proceedings, if indeed they deserved that name, which had lately been instituted in Ireland, against certain individuals, for transactions which had taken place in the theatre of Dublin on the 14th of last December, and in which the prudence, temper, and discretion of his
 965 966 967 "velut è conspectu libertas tolleretur." 968 969 970 971 —"it is twice blessed: "It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes." 972 cum multis aliis. 973 974 975 976 977 978 979
 Mr. Brougham  said, that in rising to speak upon this important question, he felt oppressed by many difficulties which weighed upon both sides of the case. On the one hand, he felt sincerely anxious to avoid doing any thing which would add to that mass of party animosity by which Ireland was already but too much distracted; while on the other, he felt that if he gave a direct negative to the motion, he should desert the duty he owed to that constitution which he conscientiously believed to have been infringed upon, however innocently, by his right hon. friend the attorney-general for Ireland. It was with double pain that he had felt himself bound to make this declaration. He had listened to the able and ingenious arguments of his right hon. friend; with every inclination to find him right; and above all, he had listened to him with strong political prejudices (for he was not ashamed to avow that he entertained them) against the quarter from which the accusation was supposed to come; and after all, it was with pain that he came to the conclusion, that the constitutional principle was distinctly against the attorney-general for Ireland. A dry legal question was, God wot, a dull subject for an argument in that House at any hour; but it would be particularly irksome at that late period of the night to enter upon a minute examination of the cases which had been quoted as precedents by his learned friend, eighteen in number, which were to be found in the books, or he should rather say which were not to be found in the books, but in manuscript, some of which, more or less accurate, were preserved in the Crown-office in this country; and others, of a more apocryphal character, were deposited in the Crown-office in Dublin, and were documents proceeding from a court in a country where sheriffs and grand juries acted in the manner which the house had heard stated that night, and where the rules of evidence were such as had been described by his learned friend, with a mixture of lamentation and laughter. He would, however, for the sake of argument, admit that all the cases were established precedents, and yet he would contend that not one of them decided the question at issue. His right hon. friend seemed to be perfectly aware of that, and commenced his speech by a most ingenious attempt to make all those cases available for him. He had begun
 1007 ex rei necessitate, 1008 1009 1010 1011
 Mr. Brougham  expressed his intention of redeeming the pledge he had given, if no other member took up the subject.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he entirely concurred in all that had been done by his right hon. friend, and was ready to share the responsibility which attached to the measures he had adopted. The noble lord who had just set down had ascribed all the evils which Ireland endured to the difference of opinion which existed amongst the members of the government of that country: he had argued, that because the lord-lieutenant entertained a different opinion from that which he (Mr. G.) professed upon one particular point, it was impossible that they could both
 1005 1006
 Mr. Daly  would vote for proceeding to the order of the day, on an understanding that the learned gentleman would bring forward the motion to which he had alluded.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, he thought it quite impossible, that the motion could have any other tendency than that of continuing and increasing the unfortunate spirit of party at present the bane and curse of Ireland. Ireland was degraded and rendered miserable, by a spirit of party, which it ought to be the object of every man to allay. What, then, would be the effect of this motion? In order to consider that point, they must consider the situation in which the parties were placed. It was only by attentively looking at that state of parties, that he had come to the determination to propose to the House the course which he thought it would be most advisable to adopt. His opinions and feelings certainly led him to put a decided negative on the motion; but other considerations would induce him to substitute an intermediate course. He took that course because he trusted the House would not be led to give what might be considered a triumph, to any of the parties into which Ireland was unhappily divided. An upright and impartial administration of justice in Ireland appeared to be the sole object of his learned friend. His learned friend had proved, that the power which he had exercised was legal and constitutional; and next, that it was necessary for the safety of the country. He would state it, as his deliberate opinion, that the attorney-general for Ireland had used his legal prerogative fairly and honestly; and he thought that his learned friend would have been guilty of a gross dereliction of duty, if, in consequence of the dread of popular clamour, he had shrunk from the discharge of his official functions. Could any one say, after hearing the evidence, that he had acted on any other ground but that of the sound discretion upon which a public officer was bound to proceed? The motion he intended to make would prevent the different parties from assuming a triumph on this occasion. He took that course, because he felt most strongly the necessity of allaying party spirit in Ireland. He concluded by moving. "That the other orders of the day be now read."
 Mr. Scarlett  agreed, that the proceeding was not illegal. But the legality of it was one thing, and the constitutionality another. It by no means followed, that what was barely legal should be always adopted. The attorney-general on filing an information, was bound to stand by it; and, though the result might be unfavourable to his cause, it would still be better to abide by the decision of the jury. He was satisfied that the conduct of the attorney-general for Ireland proceeded from the best of motives; but he certainly had forgot what was due to the character of a grand jury.
 Lord Milton  said, he came down to the House prepared to support the motion.
 1003 1004
 The Lord Advocate  said, that if the hon. member should propose an alteration of the law, he would be able to meet him on that ground. There was another statute besides that to which the hon. member alluded. An act of William and Mary
 1018
 Lord Folkestone  rose to second the motion. He said he was anxious to take the very first opportunity of expressing his feelings regarding the speech of the right hon. secretary (Mr. Canning), a few nights ago, and the papers which he had then laid upon the table. He never rose to speak, without being sensible that he was not a sufficient master of language, adequately to convey his sentiments; but upon no occasion had he felt this deficiency so strongly as at the present moment: indeed, he knew no terms that could express the disgust, shame, and indignation he had experienced on the perusal of the documents at the utter degradation they reflected upon this country. If he differed from his noble friend on the question of war, yet rose to second the motion he had submitted, he hoped he should not be thought guilty of any want of courtesy. It arose from his great anxiety to embrace the earliest occasion of adverting to the speech of the right hon. gentleman on a preceding night. To some parts of that speech be gave his cordial assent; and—since it was clear that we could not now go to war—especially to that part of it where he enforced the fitness of maintaining a strict neutrality. He too, hoped that it would be strict and impartial; that it would apply to both the belligerents; though he much feared that there was but too obvious a leaning to the stronger side. For instance, the right hon. gentleman had stated the Great Britain was bound
 1023 1024 1025 1026 1027 1028
 Lord Folkestone  said, in answer to the assertion of the hon. member, that he, more than any other man, was responsible for the debt which had been incurred in the last war, that he was utterly at a loss to understand what he alluded to.
 Mr. Marryat  felt himself obliged to
 1035
 Lord Folkestone  said, he had certainly advised the government to take up the interest of the house of Bourbon in opposition to Bonaparte; but he did not see how that advice made him responsible, more than any other man, for all the debt incurred in the last war.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the charge of inconsistency against his noble friend ill became the hon. member by whom it had been made; for if there was one member of that House to whom the charge of an abandonment of former principles could attach more deservedly than another, it was the hon. member for Hertfordshire. He did not accuse him of having abandoned his former principles from any undue motives; but the hon. member for all other men
 1031 1032 1033 1034
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose, and spoke to the following effect:—Sir; those hon. gentlemen—being by far the greater number of those whom I have the honour to address—who were not present at the commencement of this debate, can hardly imagine what a degree of restraint I impose upon myself, when I say, that it is my intention to confine myself, in what I am about to remark, strictly to the question before the House. For those who were not present cannot be aware that, from the very beginning of the discussion, there has been, whether studiously or accidentally, I know not, a sort of set-off against the figure which an hon. and learned gentleman last night applied to the benches on this side of the House, when he was describing what he conceived to be the variety of opinions by which those hon. gentlemen were influenced, who were nevertheless disposed to vote for the same proposition. Nothing cer-
 1048 1049 1050 1051 bona fide 1052 1053 1054 1055 sine quâ non 1056 1057
 Mr. Baring  said, if he did not hear better reasons against the repeal of the bill than those which had hitherto been offered, he should feel it his duty to support the motion; but, he would not give it even the humble aid of his voice, if he thought that the abandonment of this measure would plunge the country into a new war. But, when the country had safely and quietly existed for so many centuries under that state of things, to which, by the repeal of this bill, it would again return, he knew not on what principle it could be contended that they could not revert to it, without immediately hazarding a war. They must have to do with very touchy allies indeed, if they could not repeal this act without giving cause for war; and he thought the right hon.
 1045 1046
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that by the old law of England the raising of troops its this country for belligerent powers, or the fitting out of privateers for them in our
 1047
 Lord John Russell  said, he had formed an opinion in favour of the motion which
 1036 1037 1038 1039
 Mr. H. Gurney  said, he was sure that he was speaking the sentiments of the very great majority in the country, when he expressed his gratitude to his majesty's government for having done all that in them lay, to preserve, at any rate to England, a continuance of the blessings of peace. He had voted against the Foreign Enlistment bill on its introduction, being dissatisfied with the enactments which followed Englishmen out of their own country, and more so, with the provision which made the government accessary to their taking foreign service, in requiring the king's license: but, common sense and common equity required, that open recruiting and fitting out armaments against powers in amity, should be prevented within the king's dominions; and, if this bill should now be repealed, it was obvious, that armed privateers would be issuing from our ports for what was neither more nor less than piracy, and would, in all probability, involve this country in war in less than a twelvemonth. For these reasons, entirely as he detested the principles on which the French were acting in their most iniquitous invasion of Spain, he should certainly vote against the motion of the noble lord.
 Mr. Monck  said, he wished to know whether there were Jews in Edinburgh? Now, Jews were decidedly more hostile to Christianity than those philosophers who had fallen under the displeasure of the learned lord. The philosophers, it seemed, fairly discussed important questions. They did not form a party; for no two of them agreed in opinion; whereas, the Jews to a man ridiculed the Christian religion. The law of Scotland appeared, in this respect, more severe than the Inquisition.
 Mr. Hume  considered the law a most horrid one. He was convinced that the Christian religion could only stand upon the ground of discussion and free inquiry.
 1019
 Mr. Hume  presented the following Petition: 1015 1016 l. l. 1017
 Mr. Hume  proceeded to say, that when he received the petition, he wrote to the individual who sent it to him, stating it as his opinion, that the petitioners, if they felt injured, would have done better to apply to a court of law for redress. The answer he received was, that the petitioners did not complain of the conduct of the sheriff, nor of those who acted under his control, because the law of Scotland authorised the proceeding. He (Mr. H.) then referred to the English statutes.—The only act he found was the 49th of the late king, which authorised magistrates to interfere with respect to societies where money was received at the door as the price of admission. He was convinced that no police magistrate or other person in authority in England would act towards any such society as the sheriff at Edinburgh acted towards the society of Freethinkers. But by the law of Scotland he found, not only that such society might be dispersed—but that the persons forming it might be imprisoned, and actually hanged. An act of Charles 2nd, stated, that whereas there was no law against blasphemy in Scotland, if any person or persons who were not distracted in their wits, should rail at or curse God, they should suffer the punishment of death. He should add, that the individual who sent the petition to him, informed him that societies had been held in Scotland since the days of Mr. Hume; that never having intruded on public attention, they were never attacked by the public magistrate; that they had no other object but open and fair discussion, as being best calculated to promote knowledge, good morals, and virtue.
 Dr. Phillimore  contended, that the principle of allegiance ought to give the king such a power over his subjects as to prevent them from entering the service of other states. In the reign of George 2nd a statute was passed preventing the people of this country from entering into foreign service; but, as the penalty of that law applied only to their entering the service of states, under which title the revolted colonies did not come, it became necessary to pass the bill in question; and the passing of it was no new matter, as we were bound to the substance, and almost the letter of it by a treaty concluded four years previous to the time that the bill was passed. The learned gentleman went on to quote authorities to prove that the bill was not at variance with the received law of nations. It was the policy of this country to preserve a  bona fide
 Mr. Thomas Courtenay  said, the question was not what had been done in centuries past, but what ought to be done now. The assistance given by queen Elizabeth to the people of the Netherlands had been immediately followed by a war with Spain: she knew well that must be the consequence of that assistance, and she had no objection to that consequence. This was, therefore, no precedent for us, whose object and determination, as stated by the noble lord who made the motion, was, to preserve neutrality. We could scarcely disguise from ourselves that the repeal of this act would prove beneficial to Spain. Upon what pretence then, could it be said to be a neutral proceeding? Several quotations had been made from the law of nations in favour of the view which gentlemen supporting the motion had taken, but others would be found no less applicable to an opposite construction. The hon. gentleman proceeded to read an extract from Grotius, b. iii, c. 20, sect. 31, to show that assistance given by the subjects of a neutral state, to one belligerent, is to the other belligerent a justifiable cause of war, if there be "apparent reason for believing that there is, in the government, an intention to permit it." Vattel, b. iii, c. 7, sect. 104, says, "neutrals ought to give no assistance where there is no objection to give it, nor voluntarily to furnish troops, arms, ammunition, or any thing of direct use in war. I do not say to give assistance equally, but to give no assistance." And even as to loans, aryl things not directly relating to war, he says, "if it was evidently given for the purpose of enabling an enemy to attack me, this would be concurring in the war against me." From all that had been written on this subject, it was clear, that they must look, both to the animus with which any measure was adopted, and to the effect it was likely to have with re
 1040
 Mr. Denman  said, he warmly supported the motion of his hon. friend, but did not wish to be understood as pledging himself to any measure from which a war was necessarily or even likely to follow. The hon. friends with whom he was in the habit of acting would, year after year, and session after session, without interruption, have called for the repeal of this odious
 1058
 Mr. W. Lamb  said, he alluded to a speech of the noble lord in the year 1803, when the army estimates were brought forward, in which he had made the restoration of the house of Bourbon a  sine qua non.
 Mr. W. Lamb  said, that the noble lord who had just sat down, had spoken with much eagerness and vehemence, but though he had delivered his sentiments with considerable energy, he could ha felicitate him upon the consistency of his opinions. He had now spoken as strongly in favour of a war against the house of Bourbon, as he had formerly spoken in favour of a war in their behalf. He remembered the time when the noble lord far outstripped the minister of the day in the zeal with which he maintained the necessity of supporting the house of Bourbon. If there was a man in the country above all others responsible for the public debt, and bound to discharge it, it was the noble lord himself, who, above all others, had actively promoted the measures, by which that debt had beets incurred. It was true, that the noble lord had afterwards differed from his majesty's ministers, but in voting originally for hostilities he had made himself responsible for all the consequences of those hostilities.—It was not his intention to go into the general question of our foreign relations: for he had not yet had time to consider the papers on the table, with all the attention which was due to them. With respect to the proposition before the House, however, he begged to say, that neither upon any general or particular grounds was he prepared to vote for the repeal of tide Foreign Enlistment bill. He was aware that, in former times, it had been the fashion for gentlemen of chivalrous character to make campaigns in the service of foreign princes, and that bodies of men had been raised in this country to assist the Palatine, or the Protestants of France and Holland; but the state of European politics was now wholly changed. He objected to the principle of the reposed measure, because in his opinion the prerogative of deciding for war or peace was
 1029 1030
 Sir F. Blake  said, he should support the motion, in the hope that the representative voice of a great nation would not be heard in vain in France. He was of opinion, that if our government had assumed a higher tone throughout the recent negotiations, Spain would never have been invaded.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, be would not give way to his gallant friend, with respect to the warm feelings which he entertained towards the Spanish people; but, as this measure was not now to be enacted, but was merely to be continued, and as it was intended to preserve a strict neutrality, he was one of those that would not part with the Foreign Enlistment bill, by the repeal of which that neutrality might be endangered. In the seventh clause of the bill the greatest possible precaution was taken against the equipment of private ships of war. On a due observance of that provision depended the complete neutrality of this country. If it were repealed, a desperate war would probably be the consequence. He would confidently assert, that if private ships of war were allowed to be equipped, there would be such a flight of seamen from this country, so many of them would enter foreign service, that when we wanted to man our own navy, to protect our insular situation, there would be a great paucity of that  materiel 1044
 Sir R. Wilson  said, that nothing had occurred since the debate, on passing the Foreign Enlistment bill in that House, which tended to alter the opinion he then held; namely, that it was an unjust, impolitic, and most degrading measure Unjust, because it was opposed to the generous feelings of the people of this country, and could not be carried into effect without revolting those feelings, and operating against the oppressed; impolitic and degrading, because it retarded the progress of freedom in other nations which was so important to this. The learned civilian op-
 1041 1042 1043
 Lord Althorp  rose to make his promised motion, for the repeal of the Foreign Enlistment bill. He observed, that though the present question was one of considerable importance, yet the arguments for and against it, lay in so small a compass that, were he merely to confine himself to a statement of their nature, he should occupy a very short portion of their time indeed. He was afraid, however, that if he confined himself to such a statement, he should be liable to much misconstruction with one class of persons who were anxious that this country should take part in the present war, because he should declare himself a decided advocate for peace; and with another class, who, if he were silent with regard to the cause of Spain, might think him indifferent to its success, and regardless of the violent and unjustifiable attack which was making, through it, upon the independence of every nation. He therefore solicited the pardon of the House, if, in speaking upon this question, he should appear to touch upon subjects that were not altogether connected with it. In doing so, he should first apply himself to the question of peace and war. And here he must say, that no man could think war at the present moment, and in the present state of the country, a greater calamity than he did. Neither was he of opinion, that if war were now declared, it would be of service to Spain; since it might tend to produce greater union among its enemies. His decided feeling therefore was, that war ought not to be commenced: and, in making this motion, unless he should be able to prove, that the repeal of the act in question might be resolved upon, in strict conformity to the principles of neutrality, he would allow that he had made out no sufficient case. The question assumed a different appearance when it was said, that a declaration should have been made at an earlier period of the transactions—when we went to the congress of Verona—that if the allied powers should be guilty of the aggression against Spain which they had since entered upon, we he should be called upon to declare war. He fully agreed with the right hon. secretary of state, that no menaces should be uttered without the means of carrying
 1020 1021 1022
 Sir T. Lethbridge  presented one from the rev. sir Harcourt Lees of Dublin. The petition went to what he regretted to find was so much avoided by the advocates of the question; namely, the religious part of it, which was, in truth, its most important part. The hon. baronet then went through some of the details of the petition. They embraced a variety of, topics, but the principal were what the petitioner de scribed as the implacable disposition of the
 1071
 Mr. Coke  said, he had a petition to present from several of the clergy of the diocese of Norwich in favour of the Catholic claims. He was happy to say, that the petition was signed by a greater number of clergy than a similar petition which he had presented last year. The petition last year was signed by 48, the present by 55. The petition was so beautifully worded, that he should move that it be read.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he did not rise to declare his concurrence in the sentiments of the petition, which were so honourable to the parties from whom they proceeded, but to give utterance to his own feelings on this subject—to his own unqualified disapprobation of the annual farce carried on, year after year, for a great length of time, and conducive to no good purpose, and indeed to no purpose whatever, but that of sowing the seeds of well-grounded discontent in the minds of a large portion of the community. They had heard, not longer than two nights ago, from the former eloquent advocate of the Catholic claims, the secretary for foreign affairs, that there was not the least chance that the question would be carried in favour of the Catholics; then, if this was the case, why had that right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) consented to practise a deception upon the House and the country. Why had he employed himself in raising hope that was only to be deferred, and deferred only to be disappointed? Why had he contributed to irritate and excite the warm
 1072 1073 1074 1075 1076 1077 1078
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that he would not have presumed to interrupt the noble lord, had it not been for the resolution which the hon. bart. had just announced of leaving the house immediately. He wished to contradict flatly and in to, in the hon. baronet's presence, the words which the hon. baronet had imputed to him, whilst he had been accidentally absent from the house.—Seeing the hon. baronet resume his seat, Mr. Canning sat down, notwithstanding a loud call of the House for him to proceed,
 Mr. Secretary Canning  begged pardon of the noble lord for the interruption which he had given him; but having understood that the hon. baronet during his absence had brought an unfounded charge against him, he was desirous of giving it a positive denial before the hon. baronet left the House. The hon. baronet, he understood, had stated him to have said three nights ago, that he considered the success of the Catholic question as hopeless. Now, he begged leave to declare that he had never said any such thing—that he had never thought any such thing—and that he was conscious, after appealing to his judgment and to his recollection, that he never had used the words which the hon. baronet had imputed to him. What he had said was, to the best of his recollection, this—that he thought it hopeless, in the present state of the country, and of this, and the other House of Parliament, to form an administration which should agree upon this measure, and upon all other general measures, so as to be able to carry on the business of the nation. If any persons imagined that such a declaration was equivalent to a declaration that he thought that this question could not be carried without its being made what was technically called a government question, all he wished to have recollected was, that it was not he who had promulgated such an opinion. If any persons said, that the success of this question was hopeless, unless it was made a government question, let it be borne in mind, that it was their proposition, and not his. To whatever contradiction or refutation it might be liable, his proposition was—that the forming such an administration, as should coincide in their views upon this and all other public questions of importance, was, in the present state of the country, perfectly hopeless. He had always thought; nay, more, he had repeatedly said, that this question would make its way under any government which did not actually unite or openly set its countenance against it. That he had ever maintained that, with a government united in its favour, it could not be carried, was an absurdity too glaring to require from him any contradiction. He
 1080 1081
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that the charge of inconsistency came with an ill grace from the right hon. gentleman who had last spoken. He disliked the replying to any charge with a  tu quoque. 1087
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, that ever since he had sat in parliament he had uniformly supported the Catholic question; but so convinced was be now of the inutility of debating it, that he should positively take up his hat and leave the House if it came on. He had hitherto supported the right hon. and learned gentleman, because he believed that he advocated the cause with sincerity. But he now thought the affair was a perfect trick; or what, in familiar language, was called a humbug. It was not by fine speeches and by honied words—which no one could use better than the attorney-general for Ireland—but by actions, that the cause of the Catholics was to be served. He had heard the learned gentleman make the very speech alluded to by the hon. baronet; and yet be now saw him sitting on the Treasury Benches, acting with a government hostile to the question. He would tell the learned gentleman to his face, that he doubted his sincerity. Where was the utility of bringing forward the question when it was known that, even if it were carried in one House it was sure to be lost in the other? He would not be a party to exciting hopes which were not to be realised. He would not be a party to the farce of bringing on a debate upon the question; he would not put himself in the same cart with the set of comedians who were to act it. He objected to the annual showing-up, as it might be called, of the grievances of the Catholics; to the sessional unavailing motion of the learned gentleman, and others of his stamp. The only hope of the Catholics must rest upon the dissolution of a body of ministers, whose sole object—no matter at what expense—was the keeping of their places.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that after what had fallen from the hon. member for Westminster, he found himself compelled to address the House. He would be brief in his observations; but what he said, he wished to address to the hon. member for Westminster particularly. The hon. baronet had insinuated a doubt of the sincerity of his opposition to the present motion he had insinuated, that the fears which he professed to entertain for the
 1088 1089
 Mr. Wynn , in explanation, disclaimed the intention of casting any imputation, personally, on his right hon. friend; and, if he had even formed any opinion unfavourable to his right hon. friend, the manner in which he had co-operated during the last twelve months in the plans for the amelioration of the Irish government, would have convinced him that no man was more ready to promote those beneficent measures than his right hon. friend.
 Sir F. Burdett  thought that the right hon. secretary was somewhat nice in his objections. For ministers to be charged with insincerity in that House, had been no very extraordinary occurrence. But what he had said would rather have amounted to an admission of the right hon. secretary's sincerity; for he had offered to rest the issue of the debate upon the right hon. gentleman's own statement of the danger that would arise from the concession of this question.
 Mr. Secretary Canning , I rise to say, that that is false.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there could be no question but that the language made use of by his right hon. friend, was language which, unquestionably, was unfit for any member of that House to apply to another. He would ask the, hon. and learned gentleman to consider, for a moment the language which he himself had used; and he was sure he would at once see that it would not have been borne by one gentleman from another. The hon. and learned gentleman unquestionably expressed himself with extraordinary eloquence; but he had also expressed himself occasionally with an extraordinary degree of warmth. And for his own part, he must be allowed to say, that had the terms which had been used towards his right hon. friend been so applied to him, conveying, as it appeared to him, the severest reproach, not merely as it regarded his character as a minister of state, but in a sense which, must be applied, personally, he did not see how he could have abstained from giving utterance, in language more or less measured, to the impressions which would have been made on his mind. The hon. and learned gentleman would be doing nothing inconsistent with his honour as a man, or as a member of that House, if he would enable his right hon. friend to retract the language he had used, by admitting that the expression he had made use of was not intended to convey a personal insult.
 Mr. Bankes  thought that the noble lord was mistaken in supposing that the Speaker had not already performed that duty which the noble lord had called upon him to perform; for he had already called on the first violator of the orders of the House to retract his expression. He was sorry that his right hon. friend had not complied with that requisition, which he might have clone consistently with his honour. He (Mr. Bankes) would have felt no difficulty in acknowledging his error in such a case. But, as that had not been done, and as the words used tended to a consequence which could not be mistaken, he felt himself compelled to recur to the only parliamentary course now left them; which was, to move that the parties be both taken into custody. The hon. gentleman then moved; "That the right hon. George Canning and Henry Brougham esq. be committed to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms attending this House."
 Mr. Wynn  could not undertake to second the motion of his hon. friend, because he did not remember any instance in which the House had interfered, except upon some contempt being first shown to its orders. His impression was, that the expressions used by the learned gentleman were in a measure disorderly; but he did not at the time feel them to be so disorderly as to require him to call the learned member to order. The interruption of his right hon. friend was undoubtedly most intemperate and disorderly. At the same time, he did not concur with every thing which had been said as to the impossibility of adjusting the difference, the learned gentleman could have no difficulty in making one slight concession, which he might do with perfect regard to his own sense of honour, especially as all expectation of any worse consequences must be now at an end. They owed it to the country, to the interests of parliament, to the general freedom of debate not to allow the two members to leave the House until they had given their word of honour not to pursue this affair any further. That condition must be enforced. Now, as the learned gentleman could not feel any objection on personal grounds to give an explanation, seeing that neither party would be suffered to
 1096
 Sir F. Burdett  could not concur in the view taken by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. The language used was not irritating because it was personal, but because it happened to affect the individual to whom it was directed. The hon. member had evidently mistaken the nature of their orders, which, it was true, were technical, but at the same time they were formalities of the utmost importance. Now, what was the real case? His learned friend had used language which certainly was such as might be used, such as he had heard used, to a public functionary: for there was nothing in that language which could be taken, except by the right hon. secretary of state, in any other sense but as applicable to his character as a public functionary. Nothing could be so disorderly and inconvenient as for gentlemen, the moment an objectionable expression occurred, instead of waiting for an opportunity of answering in the regular course, to interrupt the speaker by a negative, expressed in words so offensive, as to lead to the most dangerous consequences. Now, as to the avowal of the hon. member who had just sat down, if the words struck him as being so excessively improper, he ought instantly to have interfered. He should have required the words to be taken down, and then have asked his learned friend to declare whether or not he intended them personally. He regretted that that course had not been taken. At present, he did not believe any gentleman had a clear apprehension of their import. It was clear that there had been a breach of order of so violent a kind as to call for the immediate interference of the chair. But the proceedings which followed up that interference did not, to use a vulgar phrase, place the saddle upon the right horse. It would be impossible for his learned friend to give any explanation until after those offensive words had been retracted. This course the House had a right to expect; and he thought it would be most useless obstinacy to delay it.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  put it to the House, whether it was not their sincere conviction that a satisfactory explanation had been given, calculated to allay any unpleasant feeling that might have existed between his right hon. friend and the learned gentleman. With respect to the circumstances out or which the misunderstanding arose, he would say that the facts must have been grossly misrepresented to the learned gentleman; for that nothing could by possibility be more free from the imputation of truckling than the manner in which his right hon. friend had accepted office. He appealed to the House, whether this affair had not been satisfactorily terminated and ought not to be further proceeded in.
 Mr. Bankes  said, he was perfectly satisfied, and begged leave to withdraw, his motion.
 Sir R. Heron  declared his determination of giving his humble support to the question whenever it should be brought forward.
 Mr. Plunkett  rose. He commenced by observing, that it was his intention to have that day presented a petition from the Roman Catholics Ireland, which had been agreed to by a considerable number of gentlemen—considerable, not merely with reference to their numbers, but also With reference to the rank and station which they held in society. Owing, however, to some mistake in furnishing the names of the petitioners, it was impossible for him, that night, to lay the document before the House. This circumstance did not, however, conclude him from introducing the Catholic question, because he was authorized by the Catholics of Ireland to appear in that Mouse as their advocate. Never in his life did he address the House under circumstances of such extreme difficulty as those under which he was placed at the present moment. He found he had to sustain the cause of the Catholics, not only against those who had been always opposed to them, but also against a considerable portion of those who had been ever looked upon as their friends. The cause had sustained a severe loss by the Secession of a large portion of hon. members who were in the habit of giving it their support, and who had very ostentatiously withdrawn themselves, for the purpose of marking their sense of the impropriety of the manner in which it was brought forward. But, if the cause had sustained a loss from the secession of those hon. members who had retired, it had suffered a still heavier loss from the speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney) who remained within the House, with the intention of giving his vote in its favour. That right hon. gentleman had always been the friend of the Roman Catholic claims; he had always acted so; and he did not mean to impeach his sincerity. But he would say, that the greatest enemy which that cause ever had, never gave it so deep a wound as had that night been inflicted upon it by its antient friend. It was in vain that the right hon. gentleman and others endeavoured to throw on him the responsibility of the failure of the question. The responsibility of that failure lay upon those who had foretold in such ominous tones, its defeat, and who treated the subject as
 1108 1109 1110 1111 1112 1113 1114 1115 1116 1117 1118 1119 1120 1121
 Mr. G. Bankes  addressed the House, and with some difficulty obtained a hearing. He said, he could not help feeling that danger was to be found under the right hon. gentleman's motion. The body of Protestant clergy was deeply interested in the question. If Roman Catholics were once admitted to a share in the legislature
 1122
 Mr. Becher  contended strongly, that, although the efforts of the lord lieutenant might do much to restore harmony, complete and permanent tranquility could only be given to Ireland by a measure which would give equality of rights and privilege to all parties. It was the true and only remedy for Orangeism, and the other evils by which Ireland was now so grievously afflicted. [Cries of "adjourn!"]
 Mr. Martin , of Galway, thought his learned friend would lay himself open to censure, if, after what had passed that night, he brought this important question to a vote. He disapproved of the conduct of those who had given notice of their intention to leave the House, if the discussion were introduced in any other way but as a cabinet question. It was destroying the question, for fear it should be lost. This sort of conduct reminded him of a gentleman, who, having received a challenge, retired to his chamber, and shot himself, leaving behind him a written paper, in which he stated, that "he had done so, for fear his antagonist should shoot him." They had heard it asserted, that the question could never be carried while there was a divided cabinet. With great humility he would take leave to say, that it might be carried, although the cabinet were divided: and if it were so carried, it would be more triumphant than if it were carried in a cabinet formed for that express purpose. There would be a great re-action of feeling throughout the country, if its success appeared to be owing to any legerdemain, which would not be the case if it triumphed in consequence of its own merits.
 Mr. S. Rice  regretted the course which had that night been taken by several gentlemen who had always shown the greatest desire to watch over the interests of Ireland. Such conduct was unjust towards those who were anxious for the success of the question, and would, perhaps, prove disastrous to the Catholic cause. The great mass of gentlemen on the opposition side of the House, had been all along—while the question received from the cabinet but a divided support—the consistent, disinterested, and unvarying friends of religious liberty. He rose chiefly to
 1106
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that the orders of the House were so clear upon cases of this nature, that he thought it impossible for any thing short of absolute madness to prevent the parties from coming to a better understanding. If the expressions of his learned friend were objectionable, there was an orderly and convenient mode of coming at an explanation. Had that mode been allowed, his learned friend could not have hesitated to have given such an explanation as would have satisfied the House and the right hon. gentleman. But, when the orders of the House were so directly violated as they had been in this case, it became the duty of the chair, and of the House, to mark where was the first violation; and when the party who had violated the orders in the first instance, had so explained his conduct as to put him once more fair with the House, then it would be proper to call upon the author of the offensive language to explain or modify it. Now he felt that he had one course to take. It was a course perfectly consistent with those orders, which he trusted, the House would always continue to preserve. He must, in conformity with those orders, call upon the chair to say who had been the first violator of those orders. It would then be the duty of the House to give their support to the chair in calling upon that first violator of their orders to retract. That being done, it would then follow as the next duty of the House, to
 1095
 Mr. Canning  said, that if he understood rightly the suggestion of the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, it was one which he should not be unwilling to receive and to act upon. He had already said, he was aware that he had committed a breach of the laws of the House. For that offence he expressed his regret, and his readiness to submit to whatever censure the House might think fit to visit upon it. Having said thus much as to his feelings towards the House, he begged, with respect to the suggestion of the hon. gentleman to be understood as acceding to it under the assurance that the learned gentleman denied the intention to convey any personal imputation in the language he had used—a denial, which if the learned gentleman did not make, be wished to be understood as retracting nothing. Personal he had considered that language; as it went to impute to him the acceptance of the office which he held, after having made unbecoming submissions to a high individual in the administration of the country for the sake of obtaining it. Such an imputation he felt to have been cast, not on his official, but his private character. If that imputation should be denied, he was ready to avow that in what he had stated subsequently, he was mistaken: if, on the Pother hand, it should be avowed, he retracted nothing.
 Mr. Canning  immediately rose, and said he should think no more of it.
 Mr. Canning  said, that after mature reflection, with every possible respect for the orders of the House and the dignity of the chair, and being quite prepared to submit with perfect humility to any censure which the House might pass upon him, he was compelled to declare, that he could neither recall nor vary the expression he had made use of.
 Mr. Canning  said, he was sorry to have used any word which was a violation of the decorum of the House; but nothing—no consideration on earth—should induce him to retract the sentiment.
 Mr. Canning  said, he was ready to acknowledge, that, so far as the orders of the House were concerned, he was exceedingly sorry that any conduct or expression of his should have attracted their displeasure. But, if he was to be required to recall his declaration, by an admission that his impression was erroneous as to the expressions which had been applied to him, he could not in conscience do it.
 Mr. Canning. —I did not mean it, nor do I think such an administration necessary.
 Lord Nugent  then went on. He could not refrain, he said, from expressing his hearty concurrence in all the general reasoning of his hon. friend; but he must at the same time express his decided opinion, that the course he was about to pursue would be highly injurious to the cause of the Catholics. He trusted that his hon. friends would not, like the ministers, neglect their duty to the Catholics, and allow them to be beaten in a division. Whatever might his opinion as to the conduct of ministers, he would not now express it. He would simply state, that as long as this question was brought forward—no matter from which side of the House—no matter whether the ministry was strong or feeble, firm or vacilla-
 1079
 Lord Nugent rose , and was proceeding to express his admiration of the speech of the hon. baronet, and the impossibility he felt of acting with him by quitting the House at the present moment, when,
 Mr. Tierney  wished to stand clear of the fearful responsibility which would fall on the heads of those who occasioned the failure of the hopes of the Catholics. Like the right hon. gentleman and his noble friend, he would say, that let who would bring forward this great measure it should have his support. Convinced, as he was, of the rectitude of the course which he had hitherto pursued, it was not any difference of opinion among either its friends or its foes, that should induce him to swerve from the line of conduct which he had hitherto adopted, from a conviction that it was necessary to the welfare and to the security of the British empire. Having said thus much, he begged permission to add, that, in all the general reasoning of the hon. baronet he most cordially concurred. He should certainly give his vote in favour of the motion of the right hon. gentleman; but, in doing so, he must press his opinion that all hopes of success in it were at an end. Who it was that had destroyed the hopes of the Catholics, and turned them into despair, an impartial public and a still more impartial posterity would hereafter decide. He felt it to be a mockery, to come, year after year, to the discussion of a subject, of which the success, whatever it might once have been, was now, in substance, acknowledged to be hopeless. In making that observation, he begged leave to state his belief that the right hon. gentleman opposite had quoted very correctly the words he had made use of on a former evening; but the impression which those words had left upon his mind was the same as had been left upon that of the hon. baronet by the words which he had supposed the right hon. gentleman to have used. He did understand that the right hon. gentleman had concluded, that all hopes of succeeding in this cause were idle, unless an administration could be formed, of which
 1082
 Mr. Tierney. —Whatever the right hon. gentleman might think, the question never would be carried unless an administration was formed that would take it up fairly, honestly, and sincerely. It was not a new question, but one that had been debated for many sessions as regularly as the year came round. The year 1805, when Mr. Fox proposed it to the House, was the first time that it ever occasioned serious debate in this country; and he would ask them whether, after all the experience which they had since had of the opposition with which it had been received in another place, they could hope to carry it, unless government interfered actively in its behalf? He was aware that the question had been carried in that House; but what good was there in that, if the influence of government was not employed in carrying it elsewhere? The right hon. gentleman had asserted that it would be impossible to form a cabinet the members of which were all friendly to Catholic emancipation. He thought differently; and he would state the reasons why. How stood the Catholic question when the right hon. gentleman carried his bill. First of all, there was a new reign. That was an important circumstance in its favour; for he might say, without any disrespect to the memory of our late revered monarch, that his prejudices on the subject were so strong, such a bias had been infused into his mind by artful and designing men by whom he had been surrounded, as to lead him to declare that, even if both Houses of parliament were to pass a bill for the emancipation of the Catholics, he would employ the privilege which the constitution gave him, unusual as the exercise of it was—in modern times—and would put his royal veto upon it. Under such circumstances, it appeared to him, that gentlemen might take office without making any stipulations in favour of the Catholics; and he had stated, that he considered both the right hon. gentleman himself and a noble lord, now no more, justifiable in so accepting it. The difficulty, however which arose from the reluctance of he sovereign, was at length removed; and the crown devolved upon a sovereign whose
 1083 1084 "So sweetly she bade me adieu, "I thought that she bade me return." 1085 1086
 Mr. Tierney  rose to order. His learned friend had been called on to explain, after an interruption of a most irregular kind, in which the term "false" had been applied to what he was saying. Now, certainly, the proper course to have taken, would have been to move that he words be taken down, after which the right hon. gentleman could have called on his learned friend for an explanation of them. But surely there was an end of every thing like debates, if, in the progress of a sentence, and before the conclusive sense could be ascertained, any member were allowed to interrupt another, by so strong an expression as that of declaring that what he was saying was false. Until the right hon. gentleman had retracted that expression, he could not, by the forms of the House, be entitled to require that explanation. Were he in the right hon. gentleman's place, he should feel no difficulty in withdrawing the expression, in order to give his learned friend and opportunity for explaining in what sense he meant to use the words which had led to the interruption.
 Mr. Tierney  said, the explanation which had been given on both sides must be equally satisfactory to the House and honourable to the parties. It only remained, therefore, for them to say, as he trusted they would, that they would think no more of the matter.
 Mr. Brougham  repeated the same expressions. He said, he had been frequently embattled against the right hon. gentleman on political occasions; no personal ill-will had ever remained in his bosom on any of those occasion; and non would on the present. He then re-
 1103 1104
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if he were to consult his own feelings alone, he should wish to pass on without explanation to finish the sentence in which he had been interrupted. He wished, however, to remind the House that the call for an explanation of the expression which had been used did not proceed from him. The question now before the House was, whether the right hon. gentleman who had used that expression and himself, should be taken into custody. The ques-
 1100 1101 1102
 Mr. Brougham  being called on, was about to address the chair, when
 Mr. Brougham  again rose in consequence of being repeatedly called upon; but made way for,
 Mr. Brougham  trusted that the House would pardon that anxiety which induced him to trespass upon its indulgence. It had not been his good fortune to be present at the earliest period of the somewhat premature discussion in which the House was engaged; but he was so impressed with the paramount importance of the subject which stood for discussion;
 1090 1091
 Mr. Abercromby  who said, it appeared to him that the House was about to be drawn into a most inconvenient course. The first question before them was, that of a breach of order by the right hon. gentleman. That question was already settled by the general admission of the House. The next question was, had the right hon. gentleman given that explanation which would satisfy the House for the breach of order. The question upon the breach of order lay between the House and the right hon. gentleman. The Speaker had declared, that the right hon. gentleman had committed that breach of order, and the House would not discharge its duty, if it did not support him in demanding an explanation of the right hon. gentleman. There could be no mistaking the term "false." It was incapable of any but a personal application. Would the right hon. gentleman explain that expression? The House was certainly bound to prevent any farther consequences. All they could now do was to carry into effect the motion just made, unless the two members could be brought mutually to explain.
 Mr. Lambton , in rising, was interrupted by cries of "Question, question!" "Adjourn, adjourn!" He observed, that if those gentlemen who were so clamorous below the bar, had but been silent for one minute, he should have delivered all he meant to say upon this question. His only object in rising was, to prevent his constituents and the country generally, from mistaking the motives which actuated him in giving his vote. All he intended to say at present was, that he should not vote for the present motion, not in consequence of any change of opinion upon this point; but because he conceived from the manner in which the question was brought forward by the right hon. the attorney-general for Ireland, it was a gross deception upon the Roman Catholics, and one to which he could not in any way lend his countenance. [Cries of "Hear, hear! Mixed with loud and repeated cries of "Question, question"—"Adjourn, adjourn"—"Clear the gallery," &c.] 1123
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the relief of the Catholics was essential to the good government of Ireland, and was, therefore, to be considered only in the light of a great state measure. The slave-trade abolition was a question of benevolence, of humanity, and of wisdom; but the emancipation of millions of fellow-subjects stood on far more commanding grounds. For his part, he would never, however unpromising appearances might be, desert his post. He believed the gentlemen opposite would admit, that he was the last man to leave that House, even on the slightest occasion. The conduct of the attorney-general for Ireland, was most inexplicable. He proceeded to read an extract from a former speech of that right hon. gentleman, in which be stated the necessity of a united cabinet, with the view of carrying that great question; and having so done, he called upon the right hon. gentleman to reconcile his opinion then with his acceptance of a seat in the cabinet which was known to entertain a divided opinion upon that very question. The right hon. secretary of state for foreign affairs, in one of his speeches on the Catholic question, had declared, that "nothing could tend more decidedly to allay the heats and dissensions to which it had given rise, than by making it a cabinet question; the cabinet, be their other political opinions what they might, ought to examine this question in all its bearings, and bring it to a shape in which it might be practically dealt with." A stronger opinion than this could not possibly be given. The right hon. secretary had farther observed, that "the government had no longer any ground or excuse for leaving this question to be agitated at the suggestion of any person, at either side of the House, who chose to take it up; but they ought to take it into their own hands as a question of vital importance to the well-being of the empire." They here found the right hon. gentleman, when out of office, stating what ought to be the conduct of government; but, now, when he was in office, they heard him declare, that he would not bring the question forward, but that, if it were introduced by any person on either side of the House, he would vote for it. Was not this a delusion on the people of Ireland? He hoped they would see, from the debate which
 1105
 Mr. Luke White  denied that the allegations in the petition were true. Not one Catholic priest had appeared on the hustings during the last Dublin election. He spoke from his own knowledge of the Catholic clergy. They were a most exemplary body of men. If people were better informed regarding Ireland, its population would not be maligned and calumniated. A concession of the claims was not se much a boon to the Catholics, as a grant for the sake of the peace and security of the empire.
 Mr. Wilmot  trusted the House would allow so humble an individual as himself to trouble them on this question, as his attention happened to have been particularly drawn to the expressions used by the learned member. He thought it far from desirable that the House should treat this matter too technically, and that if the learned gentleman could be put in a situation to explain his meaning, it would be preferable. [Cries of No!] His attention had been particularly drawn to the expressions in question, and he could most solemnly declare that he understood the words used to be in the highest degree personal. He did not say that they were meant in that sense; but if that was a correct description of them, then some allowance must be made for irritated feelings under a personal attack upon character. He should much regret if the, House went to the decision of this ques-
 1097
 The Speaker  said, that if the House would bear with him again, he was anxious to state in what manner the subject now struck him as being placed. It appeared, then to him that there were two distinct considerations before the House. The first was, that a breach of the order of the House had been committed. This was indisputable. The House would, upon this point, judge for itself whether
 1099
 The Speaker , after a perfect silence in the House during some seconds, said in a low tone, that he hoped the right hon. secretary would retract the expression he had used. An individual of his high rank and station could not fail to be aware, that such an expression was a complete violation of the customs and of the orders of the House. He deeply regretted that, even in haste, it should have been used.
 The Speaker  said, he had understood the right hon. secretary to say, that, though the words might be recalled, the sentiment could not be retracted. The chancellor of the exchequer was of opinion, that the expression was applicable perso-
 1094
 The Speaker  said, that when he had, requested the assistance of the House, he, had clone so in the expectation of receiving its support in restoring order. He was happy to find that the right hon. gentleman had discovered an instance of in-
 1093
 The Speaker  said, that in calling on the House to assist him with its advice, he hoped it would not be supposed that he was not perfectly alive to any infringement of its orders. He did so because he, hoped and expected to be supported in exerting his authority to restore order, not merely in reference to a casual interruption, but in substance.
 The Speaker  said, that the duty imposed upon him was a difficult one—one which admitted neither of compromise, nor of pause for consideration. So circumstanced, he was not only justified in calling, but bound to call, upon the House for its assistance. It was not for him to remind the members of that House of their duty. Every gentleman who heard him, knew what was the proceeding which upon similar occasions the House had found itself driven to adopt. Was it possible that he could have mistaken the words? Or would the House deny their support to him if he should require the right hon. gentleman, who had used expressions which no member could on any occasion with propriety use, to say whether or not he was ready to recall them.
 Sir R. Wilson  was satisfied, that the expressions which had fallen from his learned friend were addressed to the right hon. gentleman in his official character
 1098
 Sir J. Newport  insisted, that the repeated discussion of the Catholic question had been productive of great advantage to the cause of truth and liberality. The more he looked into the subject, the more he was convinced that on the success of the measure depended the happiness of the empire.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that although the result of last night's discussion was not what he could have wished, yet certainly the question was not an adjourned one, and, therefore, could not be renewed without a notice. He had every disposition to satisfy the hon. member but he was not prepared in answer to a question thus suddenly put, to state what his future conduct with respect to it might be. That would, in a great degree, be influenced by the judgment of others. He had little discretion to exercise upon it. It was confided to his care by those who felt the greatest interest in it: and he stood, therefore, with respect to it, in the nature of a trustee, whose actions must be governed by the opinions of those whom he knew to be the friends of the measure. For his own part, he would say, that he saw nothing to induce him to renew the notice this session.
 Mr. Grenfell  opposed it, as an improvident bargain for the public.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  defended the bargain made with the Bank,
 1124
 Mr. Huskisson  answered, that the Bank was to be allowed nothing beyond the terms of the contract which were before the House. He contended, that the bargain was advantageous for the public, and that the Bank were permitted to deal in public securities. The manner in which they had allowed the power to lie dormant, so that, even the hon. member did not know it existed, proved how harmless it had been.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, the measure had given universal satisfaction to the shipowners, and he believed there was scarcely a man in the House, except the hon. member (Mr. Ricardo) who was not satisfied of its utility. The measure was unquestionably one of relief to merchants, and of essential benefit to the maritime interest.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the fees were now the property of a person who had purchased of the dean and chapter the privilege of showing the monuments.
 Mr. Bennet  said, the House ought to know how long it would be before this work would be completed. He would grant an additional 25,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had read the estimate of the engineer with great regret, because, from that document it appeared, that 25,000 l.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that there had been put into his hand, a very short time back, the Courier newspaper of that evening, which pretended to give an account of the unpleasant transaction which took place in the House last night. As there were two holydays to intervene before the House would again meet, he took the earliest opportunity of bringing the subject under its notice as a statement in its nature calculated to revive those unpleasant feelings to which
 1131
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, that the canal was, in reality, completed, but some alterations
 1130
 Mr. Wetherell  said, that whatever doubts might exist as to the right of the public to admission to the abbey, it was a question which he should not wish to see pushed to its legal extremity, as the consequences might be mischievous.
 Mr. Ricardo  withdrew his amendment; and the bill was read a third time.
 Mr. Ricardo  did not blame the Bank directors for making as advantageous a bargain as possible for their constituents. It was, however, an extremely improvident one for the country. He thought that there was also a constitutional objection to the
 1125
 Mr. Ricardo  opposed the measure, as imposing injurious restrictions on a particular trade, and interfering with the private rights of the individuals connected with that trade. The right hon. gentleman opposite was bound to show, that there were some circumstances in this particular trade which ought to take it out of the general rule. He had, however, not only failed to do this, but he had failed to prove that the measure would afford any protection to private seamen. He should therefore move as an amendment, "That the bill be read a third time that day six months."
 Mr. H. Gurney  said, he thought that in all the debates on this bill, the greatest evil had been the least, if at all, touched upon; namely, the extremely improper and dangerous investment of the funds of the Bank; this being a species of transaction contrary to every sound banking principle, and one which, drawn into precedent, must inevitably endanger the ultimate security of that establishment.
 Mr. H. Gurney  said, he held in his hand a statement from the town of Yarmouth, in which they complained of those
 1126
 General Gascoyne,  seeing the attorney-general for Ireland in the House, wished the right hon. gentleman would have the goodness to inform him, whether it was his intention to renew the measure which the House had under consideration last night. He was anxious to learn something certain as to the course which the right hon. gentleman intended to pursue. At present, the question stood in the nature of an adjourned one. [Cries of "No, no."]
 Mr. Croker  entertained great doubts of the legality of demanding money from persons visiting the abbey. He had searched with some care, but he had not been able to find any authority by which the churches were closed. He was aware that the clergyman was said to have a freehold right in certain parts of the church; but he believed he had no right to shut it up. He regretted to say, that the dean and chapter of Westminster had, on the occasion of the coronation, been so ill-advised, or so greedy, as to cut down some very fine old trees of fifty years growth, with the view of disposing of additional ground for erecting scaffolding. The loss of the ornament to the public was great; while the profit to the chapter did not, perhaps, amount to 10 l.
 Mr. Monck  suggested, that the contract was in violation of the act of William 3rd which prohibited the Bank from lending money on crown lands or public securities. As it was a matter in which they were pecuniarily interested, the directors and proprietors of the Bank who were members, ought not in delicacy to vote.
 Mr. Hume  wished to be informed, why this bargain with the Bank, had been made in a hole and corner, secretly, and without any public competition. The right hon. gentleman's predecessor in office had given the public a pledge, that any bargain which he made for the sale of these annuities should always be made publicly, and be opened to the widest competition. Why had the right hon. gentleman abandoned that pledge? The price at which the bargain had been completed was detrimental to the public. He thought that, except in that House no 133 reasonable beings could be found to sanction it. He, therefore, called upon the House to reject it, and to break off the secret contraband trade, which at present existed between the chancellor of the exchequer and the Bank. He would move, "That the bill be read a third time this day six months."
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether any arrangement had been concluded to facilitate the admission of the public to Westminster-Abbey? The monuments erected in commemoration of public services were defrayed by the public, and that public were entitled to see them without being taxed 2 s. 1127
 Mr. Hume  said, the public either had or had not the right for which he contended. If they had, he had no idea of a compromise. That was a course which might suit lawyers; but he did not approve of it. Was the secretary for the Treasury disposed to try the question. If he would supply the money, he (Mr. Hume) would soon set the affair in motion. If the decision of a jury should be against the public, they would only be reduced to the necessity of buying the privilege; for the dean and chapter who had sold trees and stones, would sell any thing.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his regret, that, session after session, they were called on to grant money for this object. Three years ago 20,000 l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  saw no reason why they should form a canal, at the expense of a million of money, for the benefit of certain Highland gentlemen who now came forward and demanded remuneration for damages alleged to have been done to their estates; whereas, in point of fact, 25,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether there was any estimate of the sum which would hereafter be required.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that when so large a sum had been already voted, it would be bad policy to stop short now, and refuse a grant which was of comparatively small amount.
 Mr. W. Smith  contended, that the dean and chapter had no right to exact money front then public, to defray expences which ought to be met out of their own funds.
 Sir F. Blake  opposed the bill. He said he could not express his hatred of the sinking fund in better terms than by the words "Delenda est Carthago."
 Sir H. Parnell  could not concur in the remarks of the hon. member. He could say, from having seen this canal, that he had taken a very erroneous view of this question. No grant had ever been voted for completing this canal. The grants which the hon. member referred to were specially required and given for opening the canal, and this had been accomplished last October. The present grant was for deepening the canal. It was now of the depth of 12 feet, and it was necessary at some places to deepen it eight feet more in order to obtain a depth of 20 feet throughout the whole line. The locks were of the depth of 20 feet, and the whole of the navigation was constructed for the same depth, except at the entrances of the lakes, and along a short part of the summit level. The hon. member had made a great mistake in saying the bottom of the summit lock was stone, and that it would require a very large sum to cut it out. The fact was, the bottom was gravel and mud, and could easily be deepened by dredging. The hon. member had made another mistake in saying that this canal would be of no use, and that only two or three vessels a year would navigate it. In place of this it appears that 218 brigs and sloops had passed along the Eastern division of 22 miles between last April and October; and that between the opening of the canal in October and the present month, 130 brigs and sloops navigated the whole line from sea to sea. Some of these vessels came from the coast of Ireland and Liverpool on the Western side, and from as far as Yarmouth on the Eastern coast. The trade from the Westward consisted of coals, slates, and lime. Flax was also brought from Ireland to Aberdeen. Herrings were sent from the Eastern coast of Scotland to Ireland; grain to Liverpool, and general cargoes to Glasgow. Twenty-
 1129 l. l.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that the tolls on the trade would, in all probability, very soon defray the annual expense of maintaining the canal; and that there was no necessity of having steam-boats, because all the voyages he had already enumerated were made without their aid.
 Sir I. Coffin  contended, that good seamen could only be obtained by educating them as apprentices. If men were not bound apprentices, they would be as ignorant of the profession at the end of seven years, as at the commencement of their service. The best sailors in the navy were those who had served in the coal trade. The protection given by the bill to second mates was a most beneficial provision.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that as he did not understand more than the four first rules of arithmetic, he would not pretend to compute the profit or loss which was likely to accrue from this bargain. What appeared strange to him was this—why the bargain had ever been made at all. As the dead charge was to extend itself over 15 years, was it intended that at the end of that period, every spectre of it should be defunct? And if so, what was to be done with those persons who were daily coming upon the half-pay-list? He could understand the policy of the plan, if at the end of the 45 years every man on half-pay was to be as dead as Julius Cæsar. But that was not likely to be the case. There was a constant supply for the half-pay list. Scarcely a day passed without some officer coming on the half-pay from the 200 admirals, 800 captains, and 3,000 lieutenants, who had rank in the British navy.
 Sir J. Newport  contended, that this bargain with the Bank was a direct violation of the statute of William and Mary, which prevented the Bank from becoming a dealer and jobber in public securities.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald and col. Barry  argued in favour of referring the consideration of the measure to a committee above stairs; while sir J. Newport, Mr. Peel, sir H. Parnell, and col. Trench were of opinion that it could be more effectually discussed in a committee of the whole House.
 Mr. C. Grant  asked the patient indulgence of the House whilst he addressed a few words to it upon a subject in which he might be considered personally interested. The House
 1145
 Mr. Wynn  said, he had no difficulty in stating, that he had no intention of puting to any government of Ireland, or to any individual connected with it, any partiality in the administration of justice. If he conceived that any such partiality had been exercised, he should have felt it his bounden duty to bring it forward as a substantive charge. What he had stated had been to this effect—that in joining the administration he had reserved to him-self the liberty of supporting, or originating either in council or in parliament, any proposition which tend to ameliorate the condition of Ireland; amongst which he considered Catholic Emancipation to stand first and foremost. He had further stated, that the nomination of the marquis Wellesley as lord-lieutenant and of Mr. Plunkett, as attorney-general of Ireland, held out to him the prospect that firm and conciliatory government was about to be established in Ireland. He had likewise stated his opinion, that the existing laws should be equally administered to all classes of his Majesty's subjects in that country; and that the Catholics should be permitted to enjoy their fair share of those advantages to which they were entitled. In stating this stipulation, he did not intend to make any imputation on the preceding governments of Ireland. He felt that, when all those who differed as to the mode of governing Ireland agreed in the necessity of doing all that could be done to conciliate it, nothing
 1146
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, this subject he must claim for himself and for those with whom he had acted in the administration of Ireland, that they had acted with most perfect impartiality. He would say further that a most scrupulous attention had been paid, to prevent the operation of any religious prejudices in the administration of justice. In any case where Protestants and Catholics were concerned in an outrage, instead of trusting to local representations, counsel of eminence were sent to the spot, and if there was a chance that they could not direct the administration of justice impartially, the law officers of the Crown were directed to take it into their own bands. So far from any religious distinction operating to an exclusion from offices to which they were legally admissible, he could say that in no one case had he made the inquiry, whether a candidate for office was Catholic or Protestant. In the whole of the six years that he was connected with the government of Ireland, he did not recollect a single instance in which any objection was ever made by any member of it to any individual because he was a Catholic. If his own particular feelings, as well as those of the other leading members of the administration, on the subject of the Catholic claims, had not been sufficient to produce impartiality in their conduct towards the Catholics, there were still two individuals in the administration—namely, the solicitor-general, and the chancellor of the exchequer for Ireland, who were distinguished for the zeal with which they advocated the right of their fellow country men to complete emancipation; and yet, though he differed in opinion with those gentlemen upon that subject, he had never differed with them in opinion in any question that related to the administration of justice, or to the admission of Catholics into such offices as they were by law entitled to fill. With respect to his own readmission into office, he would frankly declare, that he never would have consented to enter into any administration, had he supposed that there was an impression in the minds of his colleagues that he had been guilty of any partiality in the administration of justice, or in the admission of individuals in office. He had been appointed to the post of secretary of state for the home department, and had been placed in direct cor-
 1147
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  protested against the use of such language. This doctrine was as calculated to inflame the minds of the Irish, as it was unbecoming any member of parliament to use in that House.
 Sir R. Heron  maintained, that the meeting was extremely respectable. The amendment of major Cartwright for a radical reform, as it was called, was negatived most decisively, only about twenty hands having been held up in its favour. It had been said, that the majority was against reform; if so, why did not they effectually resist the petition? That the enemies of all reform were numerously assembled on that day, he would not deny; for, in the reading-room at Lincoln, he had never seen so large a collection of big-wigs, shovel-hats, and short petticoats in his life. They, however, had not thought it right to stand forward, and the petition was carried.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given of a motion growing out of the discussion of a question of a former evening relative to the late trials in Dublin. It was a subject which nothing but a sense of imperative duty could induce him to undertake. All who heard him must have witnessed, on various occasions, how unpleasant and even dangerous it was, to touch upon any of the circumstances connected with the misfortunes of Ireland. That country was in such a state of peculiar difficulty, that no question really affecting its interest could be discussed without giving rise to irritated feeling; but at the same time that it was painful to witness this, it was also the duty of the House to find out some alleviation for the evils of that country, and to ameliorate its condition, seeing that that condition was so intimately interwoven with the welfare and happiness of the empire. It was time to put an end to a state, which was that of a smothered civil war continually breaking out into acts of mutual hostility. If he believed that the bringing under the consideration of the House any of the transactions of party in Ireland would, instead of palliating, tend to irritate still further the feelings of the country, he should be the last person who would not be desirous to draw the veil of oblivion over every past event in the sister kingdom. But he looked upon it as childish, idle and vain, to be apprehensive of discussing Irish questions from the fear of
 1150 1151 1152 1153
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he meant to trouble the House with a few observations on
 1154 1155 1156 1157 1158
 Mr. Plunkett  denied that any charge of high treason had been made.
 Mr. Bankes  was of opinion, that the
 1162
 Colonel Barry  said, that if this had been a case of slight personal delinquency on the part of the sheriff, he should not wish the House to interfere in it; but, from the whole tenor of the hon. baronet's speech, he was confirmed in the idea, that public justice demanded this investigation. He thought, moreover, that such an investigation was not likely to be at all successful in its object if carried on in Ireland; and that even an ex-officio information was not competent to attain it. He called, therefore, on that House, as they loved justice and detested calumny (and here he begged to say, that he was far indeed from meaning to impute to the right hon. gentleman any thing like a designed calumny) he called upon them to bring the parties on their floor. He could by no means agree with the right hon. gentleman, that his conduct was now out of all question, for it was not the law, but the facts of the case, upon which that question must turn. The only step, indeed, that the right hon. gentleman could take, was an ex-officio information; and that could not now be effectual in that country.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, it had been urged, that if the House consented to go into an inquiry at their bar, it would draw all the topics of the agitated state of Ireland—all its practical grievances, and a consideration of the mode of redress—into, discussion. He little doubted that it would take, a wider range than the motion described. But surely that was not a reason why they should adopt it, if the object was, to come at the facts of the case before them. It was plain that the speeches of honourable members on the other side must be much narrowed to meet the object of the motion, or the motion must be much enlarged to meet their speeches. For his own part, in occupying the attention of the House for a short time, he thought he should do well to follow the speech of the hon. mover It seldom happened that he could agree in the general topics of the hon. baronet's speeches; but he had seldom heard one in the general topics of which he more cordially agreed than that which the hon. baronet had that night delivered. He fully concurred with him, that in the whole transaction his right hon. and learned friend stood  rectus in curia. 1172
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it seemed to be agreed upon all sides, that, in justice to the high sheriff and to all the parties concerned, some inquiry should take place. The question, then, was, what was the best mode of making such inquiry? He conjured the House to confine itself, in the consideration of this subject, to the principles which had ever guided them on such occasions—principles which in this instance would, he trusted, be separated from all party feelings. He appealed to any man who heard him, whether the arguments adduced for inquiry at the bar of the House were sufficient to show that this case was an exception from the general rule? The hon. member for Limerick had said, that the conduct of the grand jury ought to be inquired into. Surely the hon. member must have forgotten the terms of the motion. In that the conduct of the sheriff only was included. If they were to go farther, let it be so stated; but if they were not, let them confine themselves to the question before them. But, supposing the conduct of the grand jury was to be examined, how were they to proceed? Were they to receive the evidence of those whom the grand jury had examined, or of those who stated that the grand jury had refused to examine them? If they did this, how were they to put the grand jury on their defence? How could they call upon them to disclose that which they were bound by oath to keep secret? This was not a case in which the political circumstances of Ireland could be taken into consideration. The noble member for Yorkshire had argued, that this was a case where the House was bound to inquire not only into the conduct of the sheriff of Dublin, but into the conduct of sheriffs generally. Now, this was opposed by the hon. member for Limerick, who stated, that the case was widely different from that of other sheriffs: and this was a reason which would induce him to send the case for inquiry, to a court of justice, rather than to the bar of that House. From the loose statements made upon this question, most of
 1169
 Colonel Johnson  avowed himself a radical, however unpalatable the term might be in that House. He had seconded the amendment of major Cartwright, and was satisfied that the great majority of the people were in favour of reform.
 Mr. A. Smith , though not present at the meeting, was able to take upon himself to say, that it did not consist of more than 500, including men, women, and children. Much as the word had been stigmatized in the mouth of a noble duke, he would assert, that a more complete farce had never been played off than at the meeting at which this petition was agreed to.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow , in rising to ask for leave to bring in a bill to repeal the Usury Laws, said, that he was encouraged to do so by the recommendation of a committee of that House, which had taken the subject into full consideration. After reading the resolutions to which that committee had come, in 1818, and contending, that if the conclusions which it had then formed were correct, nothing, had since occurred to invalidate them, he took a rapid review of the usury laws of this country, from their origin down to the present time, and insisted that they were not founded upon any principle of policy, but had their rise in religious prejudices. The learned serjeant quoted the authority of several writers, and the opinions of several witnesses examined before the committee, showing the inconveniences of a rate of interest fixed by law, without reference to circumstance, and concluded by moving "That leave be given to bring in a bill to repeal the Usury laws."
 Mr. Brownlow  said, he persevered in his opinion, that the conduct of the attorney-general for Ireland had been harsh, unprecedented, and unconstitutional. He hoped, that upon the present occasion there would be one unanimous feeling of the irresistible necessity of an inquiry, at the bar of that House, into the conduct of the high sheriff; in order that, should he be found as guilty as he believed him in-
 1163 1164 1165
 Mr. Sykes  reminded the House, that the signatures had been fairly and openly obtained, at a time when, from the general cheapness of provisions, there was little incitement to discontent. He believed that for the present petition, the friends of reform were a good deal indebted to the late member for Liverpool, who now held so distinguished a place in the councils of the Crown (Mr. Canning). That right hon member, in a speech at Liverpool, had pointedly alluded to the reformers of the county of York. The county of York by its petition now answered the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that if the question was merely whether the sheriff should be prosecuted in a court of law, or examined at the bar of that House, he would agree with the right hon. gentleman in the conclusion he had come to. But this was a greater and more important question. It was a question important to that part of the empire which had been incorporated with England by the Union. He would grant that the sheriff could not be formally tried at their bar, as he might be in a court of law; but he would contend, that the circumstances of this case were such as the House had a right to inquire into. The House, as the grand inquest of the nation, had assuredly a right to enter upon such inquiries as that now proposed. Let the House go back a few months into the history of this transaction. The blame arose out of what he would call the meritorious conduct of the attorney-general for Ireland; but, and he said it with great respect, it arose also out
 1170 1171
 Mr. Bright  said, he must call the attention of the House to the state of this bill, which ought to be made more perfect before it was suffered to pass into a law. The powers left in the hands of the lords of the Treasury and the commissioners of Excise were truly frightful, and put the interests of trade in the most perilous situation. For instance, the forfeiture of a ship was to be enacted by the bill, for the bare attempt to unload any part of a cargo once loaded, and the mitigation of this punishment was left with the lords of the Treasury.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the chief objection urged against an inquiry at the bar of the House, was, the unfavourable effect which it might have on the future trial of the sheriff, if the House should think proper to direct a prosecution. But, was it not a little singular that the sheriff himself did not make such an objection; that, on the contrary, he should have petitioned for that very mode of inquiry? God forbid that justice should be violated in the person of any one—even in one of the Orange association! God forbid that, with the weight of the censure of that House hanging about his neck like a millstone, any man should be sent to take his trial! But, when the person himself came forward and entreated to be heard, was be to be told that he did not know his own case? This compromising government, however, had shut its ears against his
 1173 1174
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if circumstances called for inquiry, he certainly should prefer the course proposed by his learned friend the attorney-general to that recommended by the hon. baronet. The House must perceive, that the question as it now stood, let it take what course it would, no longer involved the conduct of his learned friend or the Irish government. The question to be considered by the House was—not whether any suspicion could attach to the conduct of the attorney-general—not whether he had committed any error in judgment—but whether, upon the whole of the facts, there was  prima facie 1166
 Mr. Goulburn  was of opinion that a bill involving such important interests could be more efficiently discussed in a com-
 1134
 Mr. Goulburn  assured the House, that the powers of the ecclesiastical courts would remain precisely the same, whether this bill were passed or not.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley , although be willingly bore testimony to the excellent conduct of the meeting, and to the high respectability of the names affixed to the petition, yet dissented entirely from the opinions which that petition expressed.
 Mr. A. Pelham  presented a petition from the county of Lincoln, praying a reform in parliament.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the principles on which ecclesiastical courts proceeded were totally inconsistent with justice. These excessive rates were an enormous evil; and he was sure that the Irish people, upon whom they were so peculiarly oppressive, would not pay them much longer; but would effect the cure themselves by resisting the payment. Not more than one-fifth of the population of Ireland were Protestants; and it was not unlikely that that proportion would be soon reduced to a one hundred and fifth part. Was it, then, right to expect that such a population should be obliged to pay for the maintenance of a religious establishment to which they did not belong? He hoped they would discontinue to support such a system, and, if not relieved, that they would use physical force in order to avoid it [Hear, hear!]. Hon. members seemed alarmed at the expression; but it was his firm conviction, that if these acts of injustice were persisted in, matters must come to that extremity at last.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if his motion of last year had been adopted, the committee would now have nearly gone through their labours, and probably established, instead of the present system, a general fund for the payment, not only of the Protestant but of the Catholic clergy of Ireland. The time was not far distant when they must resort to such a plan. The present system was full of hardship and injustice, and led to many scenes of outrage. As the bill was before them, he thought it might be more advantageously discussed in a committee of the whole House than above stairs.
 Mr. Hume  said, that what he had
 1136
 Mr. R. Colborne , thought that the modern practice of publishing parliamentary
 1149
 Mr. Denman  said, that undoubtedly the parties were sent to prison and confined there for ten days, because it was stated that there offence was an attempt to assassinate the lord-lieutenant, the king's deputy in Ireland; though that charge was subsequently withdrawn, and neither the grand nor the petty jury was called on to say, whether a plan had been laid to assassinate the lord-lieutenant. He, if placed in the situation of a grand juror, would have treated the charge with contempt. Looking to the information which he now had on the subject, he would have thrown out the bill. He had read the trial
 1159 1160 1161 ex necessitate
 Mr. Denman  was of opinion, that the defence entered into on a former occasion by the learned gentleman did not excuse him, even if it were made out in evidence; and, if it were not substantiated by evidence, it really amounted to nothing. He thought the best way of showing the upright conduct of the learned gentleman would be, not by dragging forward another public functionary, but by entering on his own justification, when the question was fairly introduced. He thought the motion of the hon. member for Armagh had been very properly worded, because the offence complained of was, that recourse had been had to an ex-officio information, after the law officer of the Crown had taken his chance with a grand jury. He could not but look with astonishment at the circumstances out of which the proceedings arose. How a play-house riot, even though it might have been previously concerted, could be converted into high treason, and how under such a charge individuals could be kept in prison for several days, was what he could not understand.
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that the right hon. secretary for Ireland had said, that the discussion of the other night had entirely disposed of the whole question before the House. To that proposition he must give his unqualified dissent. He would not agree to any new rule for the government of affairs in Ireland, unless it could be shown that those affairs required a different rule from that which obtained in this country. He did think, however, that if such a state of things were ever to exist in England as had recently existed in Ireland, the king's attorney-general would have been justified in adopting the same proceedings as the learned gentleman had adopted. The present question did not regard any, set of men, forming, the government of Ireland; but whether the grand jury or sheriff of Dublin possessed the power to intercept or pervert the administration of justice? Last session he happened to be placed in the chair of a committee upon the local taxation of Dublin. On that occasion it appeared, that the taxation of Dublin was principally managed through the agency of the grand jury; and in the report of that committee, it was expressly stated, that the election of the grand jury appeared to be always made from the corporation; while persons who were not members of that body, whatever other qualifications they might possess, were excluded from serving as grand jurors. The same thing was asserted in a memo-
 1168
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he gave every degree of credit to the government for their efforts to remove the ill feeling which at present existed between the clergy and the population of Ireland, and he would afford them every assistance in his power to render the measure before the House efficient. He thought, however, that against the bill as at present formed, certain objections might be advanced, which, if they were not removed, would disappoint the hopes of those for whose benefit it was intended. When this subject was formerly discussed, it was said, that individuals could not see their way through a proposition for the commutation of tithes; and they were told, that to speak of apportioning a fair and just income to the clergy of Ireland, was a vain waste of words. If, however, when his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) made a proposition on that point, due attention had been paid to it, they would not have been called upon, as was now the case, to legislate under such discouraging increased difficulties. With respect to commutation and composition, two circumstances were to be considered—whether the matter was left open for arrangement to both parties, or whether it was confined only to one of them? Last year they had been told, that a compulsory adjustment would
 1133
 Mr. Wallace  said, he had a few amendments to propose, which he trusted would not meet the objections of the hon. gentleman. The first respected the bond required from the captains of ships. As that was found to work great inconvenience to trade, he proposed to abandon this provision, and substitute the bond of the owners. Another alteration related to goods removed from one port to another. At present, the bond of the first owner of the goods hung over him until they were delivered and regularly sold. He proposed to cancel the bond of the first owner in such cases, and take that of the purchaser instead of it. Another alteration regarded goods, which being imported for exportation might find a better price by being put into the home market. He would provide for that upon paying the difference. Another alteration would enable ship-owners to transfer stores which had not been consumed in a voyage, to another Ship going on another destination. The next alteration went to apply the regulations on shipping coffee, which now applied only to plantation coffee, to all
 1132
 Mr. Wallace  having moved the third reading of this bill,
 Mr. W. Smith  coincided with what had fallen from his hon. friend, and contended for that full inquiry into the system of tithes in Ireland; for the purpose of ascertaining some of the sources of those dreadful evils which afflicted that unhappy country.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he must object to any measure that vent to give to the ecclesiastical courts such extended powers as this bill went to bestow on them. As an instance of the power already possessed by that court, he would mention the case of a poor man who, for a non-payment of certain sums, was cited to appear at a place 65 miles from his home. The man appeared, but the person who cited him was not present; the poor man had to return home again, and for his travelling expenses he was allowed by the court the sum of 12 s. d. 1135
 Sir J. Newport  said, that, if the House showed an unwillingness to entertain this motion the dissentions in Ireland would be increased instead of being diminished Certain members seemed to think, that the course proposed by the hon. baronet was injudicious. If such were the opinion,
 1167
 Lord Milton  thought, that the attorney-general for Ireland laboured under some misapprehension respecting the effect of the former debate. That learned gentleman now assumed, that he had obtained an acquittal, by the House passing to the other orders of the day; as if there was an inseparable identity between the merits of his case, and the demerits of the high sheriff. The impression made upon the House by the speech of the attorney-general had an effect unfavourable to the sheriff and the jury, but favourable to himself; but the learned gentleman should not conclude, that although the House might look unfavourably on the sheriff, they were at all satisfied with the conduct of the attorney-general. The learned gentleman had talked of corruption. No corruption whatever was imputed to him. There was indeed a charge of indiscreet exercise of authority; and had the motion of the member for Armagh been confined to that charge, he would have voted for it. The learned gentleman would now get out of the motion of the hon. baronet, by telling the House somewhat tardily, that he intended to prosecute the sheriff of Dublin. But instead of complaining of the member for Armagh for hanging the charge over his head for two months, be ought to be grateful to him for having given him an excuse for not sooner prosecuting the sheriff. If there were grounds for the transactions imputed to the sheriff of Dublin, there might be grounds for similar transactions throughout Ireland. At the bar of that House, and no where else, ought such an inquiry to be made; not so much with a view of punishing this identical sheriff, if guilty, as of holding out a warning to the sheriffs of Ireland generally.
 Lord Milton  said, that the duty had been imposed upon him of presenting the petition of the freeholders of Yorkshire. The; petition, he might assert, was unanimously carried, and the persons assembled were at least ten times as numerous as at Lincoln; and generally it might be stated, that at least among the middling and inferior classes, great uniformity of opinion prevailed upon this question. When sixteen years ago, a contest took
 1148
 Mr. Coke presented  the following petition:
 Mr. Coke  said, he had now to present from the same county, petitions of a different description to that which the House had just heard, and the subscribers to which disowned all connection with what had been called the county petition. The hon. member then presented petitions from the hundreds of Launditch, North Greenhoe, Brothercross, and North Espingham calling for a reform of parliament, complaining of agricultural distress, and declaring their disapprobation of the sentiments contained in the county petition. On moving that they be laid on the table, the hon. member expressed his anxiety to say a few words. The meeting, at which Mr. Cobbett's petition was carried, was as respectable a meeting as any that he had ever attended; and the requisition on which it was called was most respectably signed by yeomanry of the county. He had attended the meeting because he felt it to be his duty to do so,
 1259
 Lord C. Townshend  censured the revolutionary principles contained in the Norfolk petition.
 Lord Normanby  said, that in rising to second the motion, he felt some apology to be due to the House. It might have been expected from him, that he would wait until he had heard what arguments were to be opposed to the motion. There was nothing, however, which could lead him to expect any other opposition than that which might be called the stock declamation concerning the alleged wisdom of the constitution, the dangers of sudden change, and such like arguments. There was something new, however, in the condition of the opponents of reform. They must now deal with the question itself, unassisted by adventitious circumstances. They could not be told now, with any degree of plausibility, of the contagion of French principles, or the terrors of radicalism which had been often used to prejudice the fair question. Much less could they be told now, that they were asking for the people what the people did not ask for themselves. The demand for reform was now general; but the tone was moderate. The weapons of the people were the justice of their case, and the determination with which they supported it. They knew the principles of the constitution were admirable; but they were also convinced that the practice was deficient. The opposite side were in the habit of making a charge of wild theories against the advocates of reform. But the charge of theory he retorted upon those who made it. Nothing, indeed, could be more beautiful in theory, than the variety of representation said to be the result of out practical system. But, to suppose the discreet and virtuous exercise of high public functions in a body avowedly corrupt, was the very wildness of theory. He would not weary the House with instances but he could not help asking, why, in the very many questions immediately affecting the public purse, decided by very large majorities in that House, it never happened that the people participated in the advantages of those decisions? It was said, that there was indecorum in questioning its conduct, as it was easy to make charges upon public bodies. But how much easier was the task of defence in such a case; and in this now little difficulty, when the House was counsel party, and judge in the
 1274
 Mr. Martin , of Galway, said, that the arguments in favour of parliamentary reform were reduced to this—that the House of Commons did not sympathise with the people. Now, he was persuaded that the House did sympathise with the people, as much as it ought to sympathise with them. He by no means intended to deny that a great majority of the people were for reform. Certainly, no system of reform was such a favourite with them as the radical system of such men as Cobbett. But was the House prepared to acquiesce in such preference? So far from thinking that the House did not sympathise with the people, he contended that there never was a grievance which they did not go as far as they ought to redress. Before he pledged himself to support a motion of this kind, he should like, as he entertained some doubts upon
 1285
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that although his sentiments on this subject had materially changed, still he was convinced that the circumstances of the country had afforded ample grounds to justify such an alteration. He apprehended that if the motion of the noble lord were carried, it would have the necessary effect of bringing into the House, through the medium of county representation, a different class (he did not apply the term invidiously) of persons to those who now composed it. This was one ground which induced him to call for a change in the representation. He also thought, that by taking the subject into their own hands, they would discourage those absurd and visionary doctrines which were held out to the country by specious and designing characters, both in secret societies and where large multitudes were assembled out of doors. He would put an extinguisher on such actions societies; and he knew of no way so effectual for that object as by laving the question taken up in that House by men of high character. The history of this country was a continued chain of reform. The constitution contained within itself the seeds of regeneration, which had probably been the reason of its enduring for so many ages. These were partly the grounds on which to gave his vote that evening.
 Lord John Russell  said, that it was now his duty, after a lapse of twelve months, to renew the subject of Parliamentary Reform. Before he entered into the merits of the petitions which crowded the table of the House in favour of that measure, he would beg of the House to consider for one moment the mere number of those petitions, and the claims of the persons by whom they had been signed. In addition to the petitions presented during the last year, there was one lately sent up from the county of York, of which he might fairly say, that the like had never been laid upon the table of the How. In addition to that, petition, signed by no fewer than 17,000 freeholders of the great and populous county of York, there had been meetings in various parts of the country; and among the rest, a most numerous and important one at Edinburgh—all praying, or demanding parliamentary reform. Under these circumstances he felt how difficult it would be for him to treat a cause of such magnitude in a manner suited to its importance. He felt how still more difficult was the task, under the circumstances in which he was placed, of sustaining that cause; the advocate
 1261 1262 1263 1264 bonâ fide 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269 1270 1271 1272 1273
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the arguments of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had been too often repeated, and
 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284
 Mr. H Gurney  said, that though this petition was, in form, the petition of the county of Norfolk, it was, in point of fact, the petition of a very celebrated individual, who had lately done them the honour of becoming a Norfolk freeholder—Mr. William Cobbett.—The hon. member stated, that happening to pass at the time, he had been present at the county meeting as a spectator; that when be entered the Hall, Mr. Cobbett appeared to be speaking with the most violent gesticulations, from one end of the hustings; areverend gentleman was speaking apparently with equal energy from the other; and the under sheriff was reading from a large paper in the middle; whilst, from the unintermitted clamour of the circle that surrounded them, it appeared to him, that not one of them knew that the others were also holding forth.—The hon. member said, that he had been informed by a gentleman, who was on the hustings from the beginning, that about five hundred persons from the clubs in Norwich, had attended the meeting—about one hundred and fifty to support Mr. Cobbett, and about double the number to prevent his being heard. These opposing parties introduced themselves between the hustings and the body of freeholders in the hall—who were supposed to be five or six thousand—the most numerous and respectable assemblage he had ever witnessed; but who certainly heard not a syllable of the petition; who neither held up their hands for it, nor against it; but who, in fact, remained in total ignorance of any question having been put.—The hon. member said, that he saw Mr. Cobbett flourish a paper over his head, but had no conception, until he was told of it afterwards, that it was at that moment that his petition had been carried. 1258
 Mr. Hume  said, that though he disapproved of the paragraphs in the petition, relating to the funds and to the equitable adjustment of contracts, he must still maintain that the property of the church was public property, intended for the support of religion; and. that if a larger portion was bestowed upon the church than was necessary, the House had a right to abridge and reduce it: He did not mean to say that the church of England had a greater share of property than was necessary to its support. What he complained of was, the manner in which that property was distributed and appropriated. There was a wide difference, however, between the church of England and the church of Ireland. In the latter country, the church had certainly more property than it ought to have; but in England, he did not believe that it had more than was wanted to maintain its clergy.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that whatever quarter such a petition might come from, when it was presented to that House it could not be too strongly or too severely reprobated.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he had only one word to offer upon this petition, which was one of the most extraordinary and unprecedented nature. Though he had been for many years, and still was, a steady advocate for parliamentary reform, he was sure that there was scarcely one gentleman in that House who would not consider such a petition adverse, instead of being; favourable to that great cause. He was therefore particularly sorry that such a petition should have been presented at all, and especially on that evening. Those who agreed in opinion with him, could only look upon the petition as a mockery and farce. A petition containing such a mass of absurdities such a tissue of false statements, and such a farrago of inconclusive reasoning could only be offered to the House by the firm and decided enemies of parliamentary reform. It went to a direct revolution in church and state; and on that account, though he had advocated the cause of reform from year to year, though he thought that the safety of the country would be certain if it were properly carried into elect, and that that safety would be at least problematical if it were not, he would still, if he thought the advocates of reform entertained opinions similar to those entertained in this petition, turn round and say, "Away with any reform
 1257
 Mr. James  rose, to say, that in his opinion the county of Norfolk had clone itself high honour by agreeing to this petition. [a laugh]. He expected to be laughed at in that House for making such a declaration; but he knew that he should not be laughed at for it out of doors. If he had, wanted any proof of the honour which the county of Norfolk had done itself by supporting this, petition, he should have found, it in this singular fact—that, much as it had been scouted, laughed at, and abused, no man had yet been found who
 1260
 Sir Edward Hyde East,  on rising, desired, that the preamble of the Bill of Rights (Stat. 1. W. and M. s. 2, c. 2.) might be read by the clerk at the tablet which being read, recited, that "Whereas, the lords spiritual and temporal, and the commons, assembled at Westminster, lawfully, fully, and freely representing all the estates of the people of this realm, did, on the lath of February, 1688,deliver a declaration to the prince and princess of Orange," &c. He then argued, that this was an authentic and solemn
 1275 1276 1277 1278 s. 1279
 Sir F. Blake  said, that reform was raining ground year after year. In referring to the hon. member who had had he preamble of the Bill of Rights read it the table for the edification of the House, he would ask that hon. member if he recollected, notwithstanding the first paragraph of that bill stated the House of Commons faithfully to represent the people, what was the opinion of
 1287
 Sir J. Newport  rose to support the motion, and said, that the people of Ireland did not complain on this subject, because they had no reason, the representation of that country being as purely popular as it could be. He mentioned a conversation which he had had with the late Mr. Windham, not more than a week before the occurrence of that calamity which had terminated his valuable life. When, in answer to an apprehension which that right hon. gentleman had expressed, that the power of the Crown might be endangered by popular elections, he (sir J. N.) had adduced the example of Ireland, and asked if the Crown had not sufficient power there? That eminent man confessed that his opinion was more deeply shaken by this line of argument than by any other; because it was obvious that in that country the Crown had as much power as it ought to possess. The hon. gentleman who had just sat down seemed to throw it out as an imputation upon the sincerity of his hon. friend, that he sat in the House by virtue of a return under that system which he deprecated. He (sir J. N.) took it, on the contrary, to be as great a proof as could be given of the independence and integrity of his hon. friend's mind, that he had not hesi-
 1286
 Mr. Huskisson  presented a petition from the Cotton Weavers of Manchester, complaining of distress, and attributing it in a great measure to the employment of machinery. The right hon. gentleman expressed his dissent from the opinion of the petitioners, that the remedies suggested by them were likely to be effectual. He sympathised with their distresses; but saw no immediate means of affording them relief.
 Lord Stanley  observed, that though the wages of the petitioners were undoubtedly small, it should be remembered that the price of provisions was also extremely low.
 Mr. G. Philips  denied that the weavers were injured by the use of machinery, as it was applied in their trade. As far as regarded the rate of profit at present obtained, the men were in general better off than their masters.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that if the petition had been confined to a complaint against the conduct of the magistrates, for which there was a remedy given to the petitioner by appeal, under the statute, to the quarter sessions, undoubtedly the practice of the House would warrant an opposition to its being brought up. But, as it also prayed for an alteration of the laws, it ought to be received.
 Mr. Maxwell  said, he had at one time been of opinion, that in order to equalize the advantage of labour a tax should be imposed on that description of machinery which came most directly in competition with human labour. Now, however, he had doubts as to the propriety of imposing any such tax; and would, instead of it, recommend that the taxes on the operative labourer should be reduced.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  presented the following petition: 1293 1294 l. l. 1295 1296
 The Marquis of Chandos  described the petitioner as an unqualified person, who had been allowed to join in the sports of coursing along with those who were qualified, and who had been proceeded against, only because he had gone with other unqualified persons.
 Mr. S. Wortley  and colonel  Wodehouse 1298
 Mr. Grey Bennet  after a few observations on the extraordinary diminution that had been made in the quantity of food apportioned to the prisoners in the Penitentiary at Milbank, and on the evil effects of straitened diet, in producing premature mortality, amongst the prisoners, moved, "That there be laid before the House, a copy of letter dated March 1822, from Mr. Hutchison, to the committee of the general Penitentiary, on the subject of dietary:—of Report of the 2nd January 1823, on Mary Brenton's death:—of Report, in January 1823, on the state of the prison:—and, of Letters of the 8th and 19th of April."
 Mr. Secretary Peel  deprecated any imputation upon the conduct of the committee, to whose gratuitous exertions the public were highly indebted. With respect to the dismissal of Mr. Hutchinson, it met with his decided approbation.
 Alderman Wood  expressed his opinion, that the swampy nature of the ground on which the Penitentiary was built was one great cause of the mortality that prevailed in it.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he could not understand the grounds of the hon. member's objection. The petition was most respectfully drawn up, and complained not alone of the specific injury sustained by the petitioner, but also of the operation of the laws under which he had suffered.
 Mr. Holford  vindicated the conduct of the committee, and stated the readiness with which they had applied to proper medical persons, as soon as doubts had been entertained respecting the nature of the disease with which the prisoners were afflicted.
 Mr. Sumner  said, that he thought the petition should not be allowed to be brought up [Murmurs]. His reason for saying so was, that the law had provided sufficient means of redress for the grievance complained of, through the jurisdiction of the courts.
 Mr. John Williams  considered the denial to follow game on a man's own grounds a grievance to the people of this country, and a manifest invasion of the rights of property. He trusted the whole of the Game laws would undergo a complete revision.
 Mr. Hume  stated it as his belief, that there was not another man in the country, who, being a judge in his own cause, would have acted as the duke of Buckingham had acted. The petition was another proof of the impropriety of placing clergymen in the commission of the peace. In one or two of the counties of England it was a very wise proceeding of the lord lieutenants not to recommend clergymen to the magisterial office, and the result was, that those counties were free from those broils and disagreements, which existed where the practice was different.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, that that gentleman's dismissal had been occasioned not by any opinion of his want of skill, but by the want of temper which he had displayed in his communications with the committee.
 Mr. Peel  had made a careful inquiry among those who were best qualified to give information, and had the satisfaction of saying that the wages of labour were, considering the price of provisions, such, that the weavers could afford to live in comparative comfort.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the medical men did not attribute the disease to the situation on which the prison was built.
 Sir J. Yorke  complained of the dismissal of Mr. Hutchison, the medical attendant of the establishment.
 Sir T. Baring  bore witness to the high character of the two clerical gentlemen of whom the petitioner complained.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the credulity of the hon. member had been grossly imposed upon. The petitioner had been dismissed upon the fullest inquiry, with means of defence allowed him, and in despite of a feeling entertained in his favour, on account of his long services. The offence which had made his dismissal necessary, was this: being himself a surveyor of taxes, he had made a return contrary to law, as to the windows of the house which he occupied.
 Mr. Macdonald  rose to make his promised motion. He began by saying, that no one, he apprehended, could entertain an expectation, or desire that communications of such momentous importance as those which had lately been laid, by his majesty's command, before both Houses of Parliament, and which had by this time found their way, as he hoped, into the hands of all his majesty's subjects, and which, if he mistook not, contained matter which would make them cling with redoubled zeal to those principles which they had previously avowed—no person, he thought, could desire that such papers should remain longer on the table of that House, unnoticed and unacknowledged. It might be well that they had not proceeded until the warmth of public feeling had in some degree abated; it might be well that they had delayed the expression of their opinion until they had recovered from the impression of their first feelings on reading matters from which their hearts so totally revolted—feelings of surprise and disgust which could never be entirely removed, though the papers were
 1302 1303 Tros Tyriusve 1304 1305 1306 1307 1308 Parturient montes. 1309 1310 1311 1312 casus fœderis 1313 1314 1315 1316 1317 1318 1319 1320 1321 1322 1323 1324 1325 persiflage 1326 1327 "Multi Committunt eadem diverse crimina fato; Ille crucem pretium sceleris tulit, hic diadema." 1328
 Mr. Bankes  said, he had listened with great attention to ascertain, if possible, from the hon. mover and those who supported him, whether they wished the House to consider the passage of the French army into Spain as a good cause of war on our parts against France. He
 1351 1352
 Mr. Baring  said, that if any attempt had been made at catching a few extra votes, it had not been on his (the Opposition) side of the House, but on the side over the way, where it was maintained, that the only question before them, was one of peace or war. He asserted, that no such decision was involved in an assent to the address of his hon. friend; and he was further prepared to maintain, that this country was more exposed to the probable chances of war, by the course which his majesty's government had pursued, than it could have been by the adoption of a tone of firm and vigorous remonstrance, from the beginning. What was the situation of this country, with reference to her continental allies? We had now been joined with them for some seven or eight years in treaties which had for their bases the general pacification of Europe. So far he was not disposed to object to the alliance; for we had, in fact, by our union with them, delivered Europe
 1353 1354 1355 1356
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he could not refrain from the expression of his feelings, in unison with those of every man who felt as an Englishman, in condemnation of what he conceived to be the gross failure of the negotiations, and the consequent degradation to which this country had been reduced by the measures adopted by the right hon. secretary opposite, and his colleagues in office. And, when he expressed those feelings, he begged at the same time to congratulate the House upon the tone and temper of the speeches which had been delivered both by the hon. mover and the seconder of the amendment. Here, at least, they had the consolation of not hearing language fostered by British hearts tainted by the base principles of foreign despots—language unfit to be heard by British ears, and in direct variance with every principle and feeling of which an Englishman ought tobe proud. Such language, he grieved to say, had been uttered elsewhere, in a place to which he could not, consistently with parliamentary order, more particularly allude, which it would have been better to have uttered among the despots at Verona, when sealing the destiny of freemen, than to have reserved for utterance in a British parliament. It was but justice to the hon. mover and seconder of the amendment to say, that they had not followed the offensive example which he had deprecated. They at least had saved themselves from the odium of such language; and had avowed the self same principles which he and those with whom he acted had declared. The only difference was, that they failed in arriving at the same conclusion. With this difference, they agreed upon terms. They had spoken out like Englishmen, in reprobation of despotism and injustice. Still, it was singular, that the very proper language of his hon. friend, who moved the original address, had been censured by the hon. member who spoke last, and more particularly after the language which he had applied to the outrage of France against Spain. The hon. member had properly said, that it deserved the "greatest execration." The hon. member could not, by possibility, have used an epithet better designating the feeling of every honest bosom at the invasion of Spain. And if, as it ought to be, it was followed up with the vote which
 1336 1337 1338 De non apparentibus et de non existentibus eadem est ratio. she 1339 en aquel sentido mediador 1340 1341 1342 1343 1344 1345 1346 1347 1348 1349 1350
 Lord Francis Leveson Gower  said:—Sir, upon an occasion like the present, which naturally calls forth the talent and the eloquence of the most experienced members of this House, I feel that I owe it some apology for obtruding upon its attention a voice which I am fully conscious can have no real influence upon the result of its discussions. Fortuitous circumstances have induced me to take much interest in the affairs of Spain; and the House will perhaps indulge me so far as to allow that it is not unnatural, though it may be presumptuous in me, to wish to hazard the expression of my opinion this night. I shall give, Sir, my zealous vote against the motion of my hon. friend and relative who has proposed the original address to his majesty. I shall not attempt to defend that vole, however, by discussing the wide range of topics which have been necessarily dwelt open by that hon. gentleman; I shall not presume to expatiate on that extended circle which must be trodden by mightier spirits than myself. There is one point which has, to a certain extent, afforded a theme for de-
 1357 1358 1359 1360 1361
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, he was perfectly satisfied with the line of strict neutrality which was laid down in the papers of the late lord Londonderry, and explained by him to the members of the holy alliance—that line which was perfectly consistent with the interests and honour of the country; and for the observance of which, in perfect sincerity during the late negotiations, he would give his majesty's ministers his warmest vote. It had been said, that ultimately we must be dragged into the war. If so, then he said, the later that event should happen the better. The danger which had been apprehended from the successes of France in Spain, and her placing an army of observation upon the Portuguese frontier, as she had done on that of Spain. seemed perfectly unfounded; because France knew that Portugal was under the protection of this country. Many other topics occurred to him to which he did not, at that late hour, propose to call the attention of the House; but he thought he should not have discharged his duty, if he had not expressed his satisfaction at the whole of the conduct of his majesty's ministers. He therefore gave the amendment his most cordial support.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, it was, his intention, before he submitted to the House an amendment to the motion of the hon. gentleman, to state, as briefly as possible, his view of the subject. In doing so, he would brig back the House to the true question; namely, whether they did or did not approve of the conduct of his majesty's ministers, in the course they had taken during the recent negotiations, after they had determined that this country should remain neutral. His feelings were totally different from those of the hon. gentleman; and he felt confident that the feelings which he entertained were in unison with those of the country at large. He should be ashamed, holding the opinions which he did, if he were not ready, in the very first instance, to call on the House to exercise their unbiassed judgment on the question. With respect to all that the hon. gentleman had said regarding the general conduct of the other powers towards Spain, and particularly of France herself, he believed that very little difference of opinion would be found to prevail. For himself, he felt as strongly as the hon. gentleman could do, that the conduct of those sovereigns, for the last two or three years, struck at all the principles on which our own constitution was founded, and was an attempt to shut the door against the admission into any state of any thing like rational liberty And, further, he would say, that with regard to the conduct of France, it seemed to him to be perfectly incomprehensible. In his opinion, the French government had manifested a degree of folly, greater than had ever been exhibited by any other government on the face of the earth. He was convinced, however, that those who guided her councils would be stopped in their career, and that the infamy of their acts would recoil on their own heads. He believed the efforts of France would fail; and, therefore, what the hon. mover had said with respect to the danger to be apprehended from the possession of Spain by France, appeared to him to be totally visionary and unfounded. With respect to the conduct of the duke of Wellington at Verona, he would contend, that unless when his majesty's government entered into remonstrances, they were determined and prepared to back those remonstrances by force, they would—to,
 1329 1330 1331 1332 1333
 Mr. Hume  said, he was prepared to meet the whole complaint against the petitioner. The act which had been construed into a fraudulent return, was only the stopping up some windows in his house with wood-work instead of filling them with brick. This was not an offence to dismiss a man for after 29 years' service. The real offence was the petitioner's having exposed certain frauds.
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from a surveyor of taxes, named White, complaining that he had been dismissed, without due cause, from his situation. Mr. White, the hon. gentleman said, had been a public servant 29 years; nine years as a confidential messenger to the late Mr. Pitt, and the rest of the time as a collector of taxes. He was now, without having committed any offence, and merely upon the strength of an anonymous letter, written to the Board of Taxes against him, deprived of his office, and consequently of his livelihood, This sentence of the board had been confirmed by the Treasury; no opportunity being afforded to him of making his defence. The truth was, that Mr. White had made himself unpopular by detecting certain frauds in the collection of the land-tax, which had, taken place within his division. The ex-
 1301
 Mr. Peter Moore  then rose amidst loud cries of "Question," "Adjourn," "Go on," from every part of the House, and said, that considering the intense interest
 1365
 Mr. Thomas Wilson  said, that he rose with pleasure to second the amendment, concurring as he did in all that had fallen from the hon. member for Yorkshire, and more particularly in that part of it respecting the conduct of ministers in their prompt and steady decision upon the line of conduct which they had pursued in the course of these negotiations. He was sure that in these sentiments he represented the feeling of a great body of his constituents, and he was sure also that it was their desire, as it was his, that his majesty's government should persevere in their adherence to the principles of honest neutrality, and to a spirit of conciliation both towards Spain and France. He, therefore, strongly recommended to his majesty's government, to persevere in the course which they had begun, and, to pursue, in a spirit of conciliation, the means best adapted for maintaining the blessings of peace. By the adoption of such a course, they would keep themselves in that situation which was most likely to afford them the ultimate means of assisting either of the parties, and enabling them to escape from the perilous situation in which they, at present, stood. To expect that such a mass of papers would give universal satisfaction would be unreasonable; but, he had no hesitation in saying, when he looked at them as a whole, that he thought they proved that ministers had done every thing which honour, firmness, and consistency of character required from them, and that they deserved the thanks of the people. He had listened with attention to the speech of the hon. mover of the address, and he must say, that his sentiments in favour of neutrality had not been at all weakened by the arguments of the hon. gentleman. The hon. member had, indeed, strenuously contended, that his majesty's government had
 1334 1335
 Mr. Wilberforce  entreated the House to consider well the circumstances in which ministers had been placed, and the influence which those circumstances must necessarily have had upon their conduct during the late negotiations. He approved of the manly tone and the plainness of language which had been used in the present debate. Such language not only became the representatives of a free people, but was of manifest advantage, considering the moral jurisdiction which the debates of that House exercised over the public mind. No language could be too strong to apply to those principles which had been avowed by France in support of her unjustifiable aggression on Spain; because they were principles which would have the effect of repressing that rising liberty which the nations of the world at present enjoyed. The conduct of France with respect to the unfortunate Spaniards was marked by singular duplicity. When her attention was called to the affairs of Naples, not a word was said about Spain which could lead to a suspicion that France meditated an attack on that country. But, having thrown off the mask, his majesty's ministers had thought it right to step forward; and he must say, that on looking through the various papers before the House, it appeared to him that they had manifested a sincere and consistent desire to preserve the peace of Europe, and to prevent the unjust aggression against Spain. He could, indeed, have wished to have seen a higher moral tone preserved in those papers. His majesty's ministers seemed to him to have fallen into a mistake which was not un-
 1362 1363 1364
 Sir W. De Crespigny  declared himself an advocate for a strict neutrality. Nobody could detest the conduct of France with regard to Spain more than he did; but, he also thought it his duty to consider, first of all, the honour and safety of his own country [coughing]. If the member, who appeared so afflicted with a cold, imagined that he was to be deterred from stating his sentiments, he was very much mistaken. That hon. member had better go home and nurse himself. He could not see why this country, which had spent six hundred millions to set the Bourbons up, should now spend as much more to pull them down again. He felt it his duty to protest against the principle of making England a party to every war which occurred, for which she was always addled with the expense and had to pay the piper. He should oppose any measure likely to embroil us in another war.
 Captain Maberly  said, he was one of those who felt considerable dissatisfaction at the whole tone and character of these negotiations. He considered that both in the manner in which they commenced, in the conclusion in which they terminated, they were wholly incompatible with the honour, the dignity, and the policy of this country, and had more deeply committed our eventual interests, than those who conducted them had any concep-
 1370 1371 sine qua non sine qua non 1372 cmigrés, 1373
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when, in an earlier stage of these proceedings, an hon. and learned member, on the opposite benches, had stated, that in the course of these negotiations his majesty's ministers were acting under a most awful responsibility, he had most aptly described the true situation in which they were placed; for it was impossible that they could shut out from their recollection, that we had but just concluded a long, an arduous, and a most expensive contest for the preservation, not only of our own liberties, but of those of Europe. Under such circumstances, it was impossible that his majesty's ministers could contemplate even the possibility of the renewal of war, without feelings of the greatest anxiety and pain. And, when it was stated that war was likely to be renewed upon a subject involving questions of the most serious and important nature, affecting as it did not only the rights of nations and the freedom and independence of states, but also the particular interests of this country; and when it was further considered, that war, if renewed at all in Europe, was likely to affect a power with which we were in close and ancient alliance, a nation to protect which we had fought and expended much blood and treasure, then he maintained, that his majesty's ministers had, during these negociations, been acting under a greater degree of responsibility than perhaps any other government, upon any other occasion, had acted under. His majesty's ministers well knew that this was a question which was calculated to
 1387 1388 1389 1390 1391
 Mr. Hobhouse. —I said that all the great powers of the continent were enemies to freedom.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  proceeded. He did not object to the correction of the hon. member: but if those great powers were adverse to the extension of freedom—an ignoble feeling, and one which he did not mean to defend—still if we had to deal with powers, who, from the nature of things, entertained adverse opinions, it became our duty to shape our arguments in a manner the best calculated to carry persuasion and conviction with them. Nothing could be gained by invective; while, on the contrary, much might be done by pointing bit the danger likely to arise from any attempts to repress that natural liberty which he firmly believed, must, in spite Of all efforts to the contrary, take place in the natural course of things, and in consequence of the great increase of general knowledge. His object was simply
 1392 1393 1394 1395 1396 1397 1398 1399
 Mr. Hobhouse,  in explanation, denied having said, that the majority of his constituents were desirous that the country should now go to war. What he had said was, that if his majesty's government had entered a strong protest against the proceedings of France at the congress at Verona, and in consequence of that protest had been obliged to go to war, the majority of his constituents would readily submit to any privations to which such a course of policy might have led; but he had qualified that assertion by adding, that it must be clearly understood that it was a war for the liberties of Europe—that it was a war of the' people of Europe against the kings of Europe.
 Mr. Robertson  said, he was most desi-
 1375 1376 1377
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that as he was a member of that administration against which a severe criminatory resolution had been moved, he stood before the House
 1415 1416 1417 l. 1418 casus fœderis 1419 1420 1421 1422 1423 1424
 Mr. Hohhouse  disclaimed any such confession. His authority was derived from much higher sources.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he could not but express his satisfaction at the unanimity of sentiment which prevailed in the House with regard to the conduct of France towards Spain; for though he certainly anticipated much of what he had heard on his own side of the House, he was not prepared for that universal expression of the sentiment which had taken place; and, whatever the vote of that House might be, there could be no doubt entertained in Europe of the feeling which universally prevailed, and the light in which the conduct of France towards Spain was viewed in this country. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, that the House ought not to descend to verbal criticism on the papers which had been produced, but should look to their tone
 1427 in limine, 1428 1429 'That roars so loud, and thunders in the index.' "Quid dignurn tanto ferret hic promissor hiatu?" 1430 1431 1432 cordon sanitaire! 1433 1434 1435 suaviter in modo 1436
 Mr. Wynn  rose amidst cries of "question" from all parts of the House. The hon. member said that he had proposed to address the House; but finding hon. gentlemen so impatient, he should move an adjournment of the debate.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he had moved the
 1437
 Mr. Disbrowe  contended, that the language of the British diplomatists during the late negotiations had been throughout consistent with the end which the British ministry had in view. In a confidential note from the pen of the late marquis of Londonderry, which did honour both to his heart and head, the policy of this country was distinctly laid down to be that of non-interference. At the congress of Verona the duke of Wellington was instructed to declare, that come what might, this country would not be a party to any interference with Spain. Nothing could be more intelligible than this language, and nothing stronger could, he thought, be required of us. If we refused interference on one side, how could those who justified our doing so contend that we ought to interfere on the other? We had remonstrated: beyond remonstrance nothing remained for us but to menace; and if we were not prepared to back our menace by war, how could it be contended that we ought to have assumed a dictatorial tone? The hon. member for Westminster was the only one as yet, who had advocated war; but if they were to make war on an abstract principle, he should wish to ask what that principle was? If, as the ally of Spain, he should wish to ask, of which part of Spain; for it was admitted that she was agitated by internal divisions. He did not, however, believe that Spain was divided in the manner that she had been represented to be by an hon. member; namely, that all the intellect and worth of the nation was on one side, and all the fools and bigots and knaves on the other: and in support of this opinion, he could adduce the authority of count Torreno, one of the greatest liberals in Spain, who had avowed that his own party was the smallest but that they made up in activity what they wanted in numbers. The hon. member concluded by declaring that he must disclaim all interference on our part as equally useless, impolitic, and unjust.
 Mr. Littleton  thought that it would ill become the House to allow the debate to go on when so much impatience was expressed by hon. members. He would therefore move, that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that having been the cause of the hon. gentleman withdrawing his motion, he thought himself bound in candour to say, that he would now support the motion for an adjournment.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that much as he disapproved of the motion of adjournment, he knew well that a motion of this sort was sure never to fail, as the member who proposed it could enforce division after division. If the house would receive an opinion gathered from experience, they would adjourn at once, instead of taking the trouble of dividing two or three times, only protesting, as he did, against the motion.
 Mr. Curwen  said, that he, and every one of his hon. friends near him, who had, for many years past been calling the attention of the House to the distressed state of the country, must feel what a dreadful responsibility ministers would have incurred, if they had involved Great Britain at this moment in a state of warfare. What he asked, would have been the feelings of gentlemen around him—what would have been the expression of Sentiment throughout the country—if mi-
 1374
 Mr. John Williams  expressed his surprise, that none of his majesty's ministers had yet addressed the House on this question, but said, that he supposed, from the cheers with which they had received the speech of the hon. member for Cumberland, that they remained satisfied with that hon. gentleman's arguments. The question on which the House were called upon, to decide appeared to be reduced to a comparatively small compass. At least this was certain, that from the commencement of the debates on this subject, from the evening when the right hon. the secretary of state for foreign affairs, in all the forms of oratory, and with some of the ceremonies of religion, deprecated the success of the French in their invasion of Spain, down to the present moment, there had been but one consentient opinion, and he was proud to say it, as to the nature, quality, and character of the enterprise undertaken by France against the Spanish people. Every hon. gentleman from first to last, had spoken of that enterprise in a tone and in language befitting an English House of Commons. It was acknowledged by all, that the conduct of France was in every respect calculated to excite odium, and provoke execration; that it united in itself all that was detestable in hypocrisy, and all that was disgusting in violence. That being the case, it seemed to follow as a matter of course, that at least a stronger tone of remonstrance—one more suitable to the gross injustice and flagrant atrocity of the case—might have been resorted to by his majesty's ministers; and that if such a tone could with prudence, have been adopted, the occasion was one which fully required it. The only question, then, which remained behind, was the question of prudence. For, notwithstanding the cheers with which the hon. gentlemen opposite re-
 1378 1379 1380 1381 in extenso, 1382 1383 1384 1385 1386
 Mr. Peel. —The hon. member had confessed, that the opinion of the different persons attached to the different embassies at Verona, founded on the principles which had been maintained during the negotiations, was, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning) was a complete radical. Since that time, however, he had been blamed by the were ardent partisans of liberty, for having rather fallen short than gone beyond what they considered his public duty. The hon. member fob Westminster had last night observed, that though there could be a thousand curves, there could only be one straight line. Now, by this straight line he thought that his right hon, friend had been fortunate enough to direct his conduct; for, if it had the reprobation of Siberian aides-de-camp on the one hand, and of the warm friends
 1425 1426
 Mr. W. Whitmore  rose. He said, he wished briefly to explain the motives which would induce him to vote for the original address. In stating those reasons he should not say that it was the policy of this country to embark in war; still less that it was her policy to hold out a menace which it was not her intention to follow up. His decision was not founded on either of these considerations, but it was founded on the fact, that throughout the whole of the documents which had been submitted to parliament, he was unable to discover a single proof of that sound, open, manly, and independent feeling, which it became this country to express, at the atrocious aggression contemplated by France against the freedom; of the Spanish nation. It was not his intention to go through the details of that correspondence, but, looking at it as a whole, he must say, that the right hon. secretary and his colleagues appeared, with respect to France and Spain, not in the character of neutrals, but, unfortunately, as the allies, or, at least, the apologists of France. Wherever a wrong was committed by that government, the British ministry was certain to find an excuse for them. We furnished them with explanations which they themselves never contemplated. What, for instance, was the necessity of our plenipotentiary at Verona admitting that the conduct of the Spanish government might have endangered the safety of other countries, and might have excited the uneasiness of the governments whose members he was addressing? Now, all that might have been very true; but he did not see why an English plenipotentiary should insert it in a memorandum addressed to the sovereigns assembled at Verona. Still some
 1366 1367 1368 casus fœderis,
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he had never; on any former occasion when he had addressed that House, felt that he stood more in need of its indulgence than he did at present, because never before had he addressed it on so important a subject. Although he was by no means satisfied
 1400 "I should be much for open war, O Peers! As not behind in hate; what was urged Main reason to persuade immediate war, Did not dissuade me most, and seem to cast Ominous conjecture on the whole success: When he who most excels in feat of arms, In what he counsels and in what excels Mistrustful, grounds his courage on despair." 1401 "But Horace, Sir, was delicate, was nice; Bubo observes, he lash'd no sort of vice; 1402 Horace would say, sir Billy serv'd the crown, Blunt could do bus'ness, Higgins knew the town; In Sappho touch the failings of the sex, In rev'rend Bishops note some small neglects." 1403 1404 1405 1406 1407 "fuit hœc sapientia quondanm," 1408 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413 1414
 Mr. Grey Bennet  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to abolish Punishment by Whipping. He maintained, that this species of punishment was altogether inefficacious, and that it wanted two essential qualities which ought to belong to all penal inflictions. It neither operated as an example to deter others, nor had it any tendency to reform the offender. It was, in fact, the last relic of a barbarous system of punishments which it was high time to get rid of. He was ready to admit the necessity of some punishment for minor offences, and if there were no other which could be effectually substituted for that of whipping, he would not have brought forward the present motion. There was, however, a most effectual punishment, that of hard labour, which, while it operated with sufficient severity on the offender, neither degraded nor disgraced him, like the punishment of flogging, and which might have the effect of convincing him of the necessity of habits of industry. Not long since, the punishment by pillory had been repealed, and the abolition of flogging, as applied to females, had been carried almost by acclamation. It was a ready sacrifice to the good sense and good feeling of the country. The hon. gentleman challenged any man to produce an instance in which
 1438
 The Attorney General  said, he was aware that any person who opposed such a measure as that which the hon. member had brought forward, would subject himself to the charge of want of humanity. He felt it his duty, however, to oppose the motion, because he was satisfied that the punishment of whipping was, in many cases, salutary, and that a sweeping abolition of it could not but be highly prejudicial. It might be advisable to do away; with this punishment in some particular cases; but to abolish it altogether would: be a very dangerous experiment. He should oppose the measure in this early stage of it, because, if the hon. member succeeded in obtaining leave to bring in the bill, magistrates might feel themselves fettered in the exercise of the power of awarding this punishment, before the bill was disposed of.
 Mr. Hobhouse  denied that there was any statute by which magistrates were authorized to flog for the purpose of keeping up the discipline of prisons. Whipping was the sentence of a court; and, he believed, could not be inflicted without it. As to the private infliction of whipping, though it might be rendered less disgusting by that means, one of the great objects of punishment was the publicity of the example, and if we must have flogging, he should prefer the public to the private infliction of the punishment flogging in private was in fact a species of torture which the spirit of the English law did not justify. The more he considered the subject, the more he was convinced of the necessity of extending the provisions of the late act, which abolished flogging in respect to female offenders. If the house had judged it necessary to respect the decency of females, he did not see why they should not also respect the manliness of the other sex by abolishing this degrading punishment. A man once punished in this way lost all self respect. The frequent infliction of this punishment had tended greatly to degrade the character of our seamen; and our navy was well known to be supplied by a class of men, upon whose moral character and habits little reliance could be placed. He himself knew an instance of a commander of a ship, who was obliged to sleep every night with sentinels planted at the door of his cabin with loaded blunderbusses, and who assigned as a reason for the precaution, that his life was hi jeopardy, secant; that there was not a man on board his ship who had not been flogged. He trusted the House would see the necessity of abolishing a punishment, which was contrary to sound principles of penal legislation, as well as to common decency and humanity.
 Mr. S. Bourne  agreed that the punishment of whipping, in order to be salutary, ought to be public; but objected decidedly to the total discontinuance of it. He thought that, in the case of a hardened offender it was often attended with most beneficial effects.
 Sir R. Heron  thought it was high time to abolish so degrading and unequal a punishment.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that all the information he had been able to collect on this subject led him to think that the abolition of the punishment of whipping for minor offences would be a dangerous experiment. If the principle of the hon. mover were well-founded, they ought not to stop here; but the punishment of flogging in public schools ought to be abolished by act of parliament. It was peculiarly incumbent upon those who advocated the necessity of mitigating the severity of the penal code, in respect to capital punishments, to beware of render-
 1441
 Dr. Lushinglon  denied that the practice of flogging was necessary to discipline, either in our army or navy. He was convinced that where soldiers or sailors were subjected to it, their feelings became blunted, and their moral characters degenerated in proportion. The flogging at public schools proceeded upon a different principle; but there were instances in which, at public schools, the practice had been carried to a most improper excess. He objected to public whipping; it was a disgusting exhibition. And, in cases where floggings were privately inflicted, who was to superintend the punishment? The fact was, that its lightness or severity depended, almost entirely, upon the feeling or caprice of the gaoler.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that in the gaol of Newgate, the punishment was always inflicted under the inspection of the sheriff or of a visiting magistrate.
 Mr. Wynn  rose. He began by stating, that after the most serious consideration of the important subject which had for two nights occupied the attention of the House, he was firmly convinced that no other measures than those which had been adopted by his majesty's ministers would have been consistent with the interests of the country. He could not discover any intermediate course which they could have taken between war and the neutrality they had preserved. He was aware that it had been suggested by the hon. member for Westminster on the first evening of the debate, that our minister at Verona ought to have told France that if she still persisted in her unjust intention of attacking Spain, he would go home and submit the subject to a British parliament. Now, he must contend, that if any minister had done so, he would have thereby degraded himself, and have acted contrary
 1443 1444 1445 1446 1447
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that his observations were intended to apply to the monarchical principle, as expounded by the tyrants of the continent.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he understood the observation of the hon. gentleman to have extended further. But, upon the same principle, he could not see the necessity or propriety of interfering with the policy of other states, neither could he perceive the justice of animadverting with asperity on the conduct of foreign potentates. In that House, he knew, gentlemen might indulge in whatever language they pleased, relative to foreign sovereigns; it was,
 1448 1449
 Mr. Martin  of Galway, thought there were cases in which the continuance of this punishment might be desirable, although he thought the manner of inflicting it deserved to be inquired into.
 Lord Folkestone  apologized for addressing the House after having on a recent occasion occupied so much of their time. He did not know whether any apology was required from him by the House, for the manner in which he had then delivered his sentiments. It occurred to him that it was scarcely possible that the right hon. secretary opposite, notwithstanding the well-known turn for sarcasm which distinguished him, could have treated him (lord F.) in the manner in which he had done, unless there had been something unbecoming in the language which he had used. If that were the case, he was ready to make the necessary apology to the House. He was, undoubtedly angry upon that occasion. He had attempted to express the shame and indignation which he felt upon the perusal of the papers which had been presented to the House, and the scorn and contempt which he entertained for the British negotiators who could put their names to those papers. [Cheers.] If he had vented his feelings, in language not so measured as he ought to have used, he hoped the House of Commons was not yet so far sunk in degradation, as to visit him with its anger on that account. He might be allowed to urge in extenuation
 1471 1472
 Mr. Martin,  of Galway, said, he had not meant to rise to order; but, alter being called upon, he did not hesitate to say, that it was disorderly in the noble lord to entertain the House for half an hour, on the subject of another debate. If he had any charge to prefer against the right hon. secretary, let him bring it forward in a parliamentary way. He had thought his remarks impertinent to the present debate, and had therefore called the noble lord to order.
 Lord Folkestone  proceeded. He said; he believed the hon. member was correct in his opinion; but the strict rule of order had often been departed from. Much latitude was allowed to members; and particularly on late occasions. If the rule was to be enforced against him, he hoped it would also be enforced against others: He could not participate in the satisfaction which had been expressed by the hon. member for Westminster and others, at the tone which had prevailed in that House during the course of the present debate with respect to the conduct of France. It appeared to him to be unbecoming the character of a British House of Commons, that its sentiments should be expressed in words alone,  vox et prœterea nihil, 1473 de jure, 1474 1475 1476
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose and said: * * 1479 1480 1481 * * 1482 * bruta fulmina * † See Papers, Class B, No 14. p. 935. 1483 areopagitical * * 1484 1485 "Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last; You spurn'd me such a day; another time You called me—dog; and for these courtesies" "—Medio de fonte leporum Surget amari aliquid, quod in ipsis floribus angat." 1486 1487 duresse 1488 * * 1489 1490 1491 * * 1492 VI. P. 328.—And he subjoins in a note—"La Médiation diffère essentiellement de l'interposition de bons offices; on peut accepter ceux-ci, et rejetter la médiation." 1493 * * 1494 * * 1495
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he disclaimed this version of his words. He had put it as a conjecture.
 Colonel Davies  said, he had only a few observations to offer to the House, and those few should be directed to show, that the gentlemen who supported the original motion were not necessarily the advocates of war. He would, however, say that, as far as his own individual feelings were concerned, if the result of the debate of that night was to decide the question of peace or war, his vote would be for war: but he was aware that a question of this importance ought not to be decided by individual feeling. Those hon. members who had spoken against the motion had, for the greater part, gone upon the expediency of maintaining a state of peace. But he maintained, that if his majesty's ministers had taken the firm and decided tone which became this country, they would have effectually deterred France from her aggressions upon Spain. [There was at this time so much coughing and confusion in the House, that the hon. officer was audible at intervals only.] He should be sorry to say any thing which might be offensive to hon. members, but as he did not intend to occupy much of the time of the House, he could assure them that those expressions of impatience, so far from having the effect of shortening the debate, would only tend to lengthen it; as be should
 1460
 The Lord Mayor,  amidst loud cries of question! stated his intention to support the amendment.
 Mr. Macdonald  said, in reply, that the three nights debate which had taken place would, he was confident, serve as an antedote to the mischief occasioned by the feebleness of the language adopted by his majesty's ministers, in the course of the recent negotiations. There was but one word in the amendment in which he could not concur. It was the word "earnest," as applied to the endeavours of ministers. If it meant merely, that ministers had been themselves earnest in their endeavours, he did not quarrel with it; and, on the grounds stated in the appeal which had just been made to him by his hon. and learned friend, he was ready to withdraw the address which he had proposed, and allow the amendment to stand as an original motion. [Cries of "no, no: divide divide"!]
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that after having suffered for three long nights the constant, unceasing, unremitting, and unsparing lectures of the hon. gentlemen opposite, for a too ready concession to the views of foreign powers, it was incumbent upon him and his colleagues to show, that they had profited by the lesson that had been taught them, and that, though satisfied themselves with the amendment, they could not concur in the suggestion of withdrawing the original motion. 1547 1548
 Alderman C. Smith  maintained the expediency of whipping, and observed that there were many offenders who would rather be imprisoned twelve months, than undergo that salutary infliction.
 Mr. Littleton  rose, but was for some moments utterly inaudible. As soon as order was restored, the hon. gentleman observed in reference to the calls of the noble lord upon his right hon. friend that no just complaint could be made against his right hon. friend, for not having addressed the House at an earlier period. He believed every member of his majesty's government in that House had spoken upon it except his right hon. friend, and nothing could be more natural than that his right hon. friend, whose more peculiar office it was to explain the whole of the negotiations, should have waited until he had heard all the objections which might be made to them. He (Mr. L.) might, in his turn, express his surprise, that: the House had not, before the present hour, heard the sentiments of the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham) upon the question before the House. He must suppose the hon. and learned gentleman
 1477 1478
 Mr. Canning. —I am glad to have occasioned this explanation: I have no doubt that my hon. and learned friend must have
 1499 1500 1501 1502 * * 1503 1504 1505 1506 were did 1507 1508 1509 1510 1511 1512 quâ minimé reris, 1513 bona fide 1514 1515 other 1516 1517 l. come come what may. * * "Art. II. If ever it shall happen that the kings of Spain and France, either the present or future, that both of them together, or either of them separately, shall make war, or give occasion to suspect that they intend to make war upon the kingdom of Portugal, either on the continent of Europe or in its dominions beyond seas; her majesty the queen of Great Britain, and the lords the states
 1518 general, shall use their friendly offices with the said kings, or either of them, In order to persuade them to observe the terms of peace towards Portugal, and not to make war upon it." "Art. III. But these good offices not proving successful, but altogether ineffectual, so that war should be made by the aforesaid kings, or by either of them, upon Portugal; the above mentioned powers of Great Britain and Holland shall make war, with all their force, upon the aforesaid king or kings, who shall carry hostile arms into Portugal." † "Sed et hic distinguendum est, an Fœderatus meus injuriam patiatur, an ipse inferat; si patiatur, promissa implebo; si inferat, non implebo;"—"Cum pacta aiant  'qui bello petitur,' qui ab 1519 1520 1521 1522 1523 * suaviter in motto. * 1524 at Verona, French Verona. 1525 strike at the root of the British constitution, 1526 "would have been!" are 1527
 Mr. Canning.  — I assure the hon. gentleman that I understood him to state it as a fact: but if it was only conjecture, it is of a piece with the whole of the address Which he supports;—every paragraph of which teems with guesses and suppositions equally groundless. European French. 1496 French French toute Erropéenne; toute Française et toute Européenne: Française, Européenne. 1497 * in cypher See Papers, Class B, No. 30, p. 952. 1498
 Mr. Dawson  saw no sufficient ground for the motion, and, if necessary, would take the sense of the House upon it. Without whipping, magistrates would not be able to compel subordination and discipline in prisons.
 Mr. Sumner  thought the introduction of the tread-mill would render the punishment of whipping in prisons less necessary. If the hon. member brought in his bill, he would recommend an exception with respect to juvenile offenders, to whose case the punishment of whipping was peculiarly adapted.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that, in rising to address the House at so protracted an hour, he should be under the necessity of passing over a great variety of those topics to which the right hon. secretary had, at such considerable length, adverted; and he trusted the House would give him credit for the assertion, that he would not detain them one instant longer, nor advert to one single point beyond the limits in which he found himself bound by the strongest necessity. The House had just heard from the right hon. gentleman, a most able and eloquent address: that the man who rose to answer it, must have fearful odds to contend with; and those odds were rendered the more fearful, from the circumstances that that address was a long one, and that the reply to it would be addressed to the minds of a jaded audience. But as he trusted that the merits of this momentous question would not be decided on the particular merits of a speaker on the one side or the other, but upon its own intrinsic merits, so he hoped to enforce a conviction on the minds of the House, that much yet remained unexplained—That the conduct of his majesty's ministers had been most unsatisfactory—that the country had been placed in a state in which she had never found herself before—that she had been compelled to suffer indignities which she would never before have put up with—and that therefore they ought not to shut their eyes to the facts of the case, and run away with the idea, that because the conduct of government had been defended in a most brilliant speech, the conduct of that government stood wholly spotless and unimpeached. He would take upon himself the task of showing, that that speech contained not one tittle of justification. Moreover, if time and the patience of the House would admit, there was not a particle of that harangue, to which he could not give a satisfactory answer, both from the admissions of the right hon. gentleman and his friends, and from the papers which the right hon. gentleman had laid
 1528 1529 1530 ultra cases fœderis. cases fœderis, 1531 1532 1533 1534 cordon sanitaire 1535 1536 1537 1538 1539 1540 1541 1542 1543 1544 1545 1546
 Mr. Home Drummond  thought it impossible that the narrative of the hon member for Westminster could be correct. It could hardly have occurred without being noticed at the Admiralty.
 Mr. Horace Twiss  rose amidst cries of question from the Opposition benches
 1461 1462 1463 bonâ fide 1464 1465 1466 1467 1468
 Mr. Curwen  seconded the motion.
 Mr. J. Smith  approved of the principle of the motion. One argument had not been adverted to, which might be urged in support of the abolition. He alluded to the improved state of knowledge among the inferior classes of the people. As to flogging in public schools, it was much less frequently resorted to than it used to be.
 Mr. N. Calvert  thought the punishment
 1440
 Mr. Leycester  said, he rose for the purpose of repelling the supposition, that the question before the House was, whether there should be peace or war? The question for consideration was the real nature and true character of the late negotiations. He disapproved of the whole course which had been adopted by his majesty's ministers. Why had not the opinion of this country been supported by an effective remonstrance? That such a remonstrance should have been made, they had the authority of ministers themselves. He had looked over the papers with the utmost anxiety, but could find no instruction with respect to the conduct of France, which went further than "To hint a fault, and hesitate dislike." His hon. friend, the member for Surrey, had stated his conviction, that even if the language of his majesty's ministers had been more forcible, war would not have been avoided. Now, his own view of the case was exactly the reverse. Had ministers used forcible language, the French government would not, he believed, have ventured on war. The French had, if he mistook not, some very unpleasant reminiscences of their recent struggles with this country, which would have induced them to pause, if strong language—language such as the aggression warranted—had been used. Had not that House, with one voice, proclaimed the infamy and atrocity of the attack upon Spain? Had not a noble lord (F. Gower), who was friendly to ministers, described the insane conduct of the French government as similar to that of the herd of swine mentioned in scripture, which being possessed with an evil spirit rushed on its own destruction? The proceedings of France, had on all hands been admitted to have been flagrantly unjust. In another place, indeed, he understood, that, by one individual, sentiments of a different kind had been uttered. He could scarcely believe the report. He could scarcely believe that any Englishman could be found capable of expressing the opinions ascribed to the individual to whom he alluded:—
 "Who but must laugh, if such a man there be? "Who would not weep, if the great duke were he?" 1450
 Mr. Lennard  observed, that the principle had been admitted in the abolition of the practice of whipping females, and he saw every reason for carrying it further. It was a punishment that must have different effects upon different minds, and might be slight or severe, according to the pleasure of the person inflicting it.
 Mr. Estcourt  thought, that, as the whole end of punishment was the deterring of others from crime, and as there could be no doubt that such was the tendency of the punishment of flogging, it ought not to be abolished. In the present state of prison discipline it was indispensable.
 Mr. William Peel  said, he entirely approved of the conduct of his majesty's ministers throughout the late negotiations, and should, therefore, give his hearty assent to the amendment of the hon. member for Yorkshire. So far from thinking that his majesty's ministers had, in any part of their conduct, compromised the honour or interests of the country, he was of opinion, that never was its character and station better sustained, than it had been during the late proceedings at the congress at Verona. He would ask those gentlemen who were now so loud in the expression of their desire to involve the country in a war, whether they were prepared, if the government were really driven to hostilities, to afford that lavish expenditure which such a state would of necessity call for? It would be ridiculous to argue that the resources of this country were not sufficiently ample to enable her to embark in war, if war were necessary for her interests or honour. That country, to which every other country appealed, and to which every other country was indebted, was surely not the only country which could not support a war. That we possessed resources for carrying on a war was indisputable; but the Question was, whether those rescurces should be husbanded, or whether they should be squandered away unnecessarily? The best policy was that which his majesty's government had adopted. It was the true language of caution, "to beware of entering into the quarrel of another." With regard to the conduct adopted by France against Spain, there was no man more sensible than he was of the striking folly, absurdity, nay even madness of the French invasion. Indeed, he never thought France would have ventured upon so disastrous a step until she had actually passed the frontier. He trusted that God would send the Spaniards a speedy and a safe deliverance. Still he thought the policy of this country was neutrality. He knew such to be the wish of his constituents, and he believed it to be also that of the great bulk of the people at large.
 Mr. William Williams  defended the right of the people of Europe to re-model their governments on the representative system. He could see no danger from their doing so; and he never expected to have heard a contrary sentiment expressed in a British House of Commons. He thought that every man who loved the British constitution ought to rejoice when he saw other nations adopting the principles on which that constitution was founded, and establishing a system of representative government. He believed, that prior to the conference at Verona, this country was pledged to oppose the political views which were there disclosed by the allied monarchs. When he looked at the general conduct of his majesty's government at Verona, he could not help declaring his approbation of their line of policy, although in some of the particulars he did not go along with them. He was not one of those who thought that the use of menaces would have become England, during her negotiation with independent states; at the same time, he thought she might have used conduct to wards France somewhat more firm, without exceeding the sober language of truth and justice. There was still something in the argument, that if violent language had been held it might have led towar—a result which he should have scrupulously deprecated. There was something so horribly devastative in war, some thing so afflicting to the human race—that hardly under any other circumstances than the imperative defence of national honour and independence, would
 1451
 Sir Francis Blake  said, that when liberty was at stake, neutrality was not at all congenial to the generous feelings of the British nation. When the Spaniards were engaged in the glorious cause of liberty, it was natural that they should apply to England for assistance; and if we talked of neutrality, she might be apt to think of the old saying—"Those who are not with us are against us." But Spain ought to make a distinction between the government, and the people, of this country. The hearts of the people of Great Britain were with the brave Spaniards, but their ardent feelings were damped by the icy particles of the administration. If he were a Spaniard, be would say that ministers, by their policy, were silently—he would not say intentionally—upholding that most odious, detestable, and abominable league which
 1469 1470
 Sir I. Coffin  declared that, in the whole course of his naval experience, he had never heard of such a case as that mentioned by the hon. member for Westminster. He thought it impossible that the story could be well-founded. He had himself commanded the Melampus, during the late war, for fourteen months, and during the whole of' that period he had punished only one man.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that he had only used the word "sparing," as sparing the  delicacy,
 Sir T. Baring  thought that boys might be whipped with less impropriety than men; and that though the punishment might tend to reclaim young delinquents it had no such effect on old ones.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that he did not mean to enter into a discussion of the details of the papers on the table, but he wished to take a more general view of the question under consideration. Whatever difference of opinion might exist upon some points, there were two on which all seemed to agree; first, the injustice of
 1453 1454 1455 1456 1457 1458 1459
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he would avail himself of the opportunity which the motion afforded him of stating to the House a fact of considerable importance, not only to himself but to the question which had engaged, and was likely to engage still further, the attention of the House. It was in the recollection of the House, that both in the speech and motion of the hon. member for Armagh, * ex officio ex officio * 10 ex-officio ex-officio
 Mr. Plunkett  replied, that judgment had been signed for want of a plea; but; in consequence of the contrition expressed by the defendant, and of his having lost a valuable appointment, no further punishment had been visited upon him.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he was bound in justice to the crown solicitor to state, that two gentlemen of the same name had held that office. They were father and son. The father was dead, and the son must have been a very young man at the period to which he had alluded.
 Mr. Calcraft  consented to withdraw his motion for the attendance of Mr. Saurin. It was certainly difficult at present to state to what extent the examination would proceed.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  wished the House to suspend its judgment with respect to Mr. Kemmis. The fact which had been stated by his right hon. friend was, undoubtedly, very important; but still he thought it possible that it might have been forgotten. Mr. Townsend who had concurred with his right hon. friend, had also been in office in 1811, and yet he did not remember it. The present lord chief justice of Ireland was at the same period the solicitor general, and yet, when the cause was tried before him, and the objection urged by the defendant's counsel, that this was a case without precedent, his own memory did not furnish him with this fact, with which it was almost certain that he must have been acquainted.
 Colonel Barry  said, his reason for ordering the attendance of Mr. Kemmis was, because, in the course of the examination, matter might come out which it would be necessary for him to explain. From the number of witnesses summoned, it would appear that the examination was meant to be indefinite. If gentlemen should institute an inquiry into the feuds of unhappy Ireland from the time of Henry 2nd, he could have no objection to it; but he would not, therefore, lose sight of the question then before them; namely, whether the conduct of the sheriff did, or did not deserve the censure of the House? As gentlemen appeared willing to confine their examination to that point, he would withdraw his motion.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that having, brought the proceeding to the present point, and put it in a train of investigation, he would now leave it in the hands of the gentlemen
 13
 Mr. Benjamin Riky  called in, and examined. 14 15 Plunkett. Newport. 16 Milton. Brougham. Newport. S. Rice. 17 Phillimore. S. Rice. Scarlett. Barry. J. Mackintosh. 18 Barry. Brownlow. J. Mackintosh. T. Ellis. 19 S. Rice. Bright. Barry. S. Rice. 20 Hume. Plunkett. Brownlow. F. Lewis. Stanley. Bright. Denman. 21 Martin. Brownlow. Ellis. S. Rice. 22 Plunkett. J. Newport. 23 Brougham. ex officio ex officio 24
 Colonel Barry  said, he would move that the name of Mr. W. Kemmis the crown solicitor, be added to those of the witnesses already moved for.
 Mr. Calcraft  moved, that Mr. Saurin's name should also be added.
 Mr. Goulbum  suggested whether it would not be for the convenience of the House, if the inquiry was to be entered upon to which the question of the hon. member would lead, to examine some witness who was well informed on the subject, which the present witness had acknowledged he was not.
 Mr. S. Rice  approved of the course of examination which had been proceeded in by Mr. Brougham.
 Mr. Wynn  asked whether it was proper that the House should examine a witness as to inferences? The witnesses ought to be called upon to state facts, and members might then make their own inferences.
 Colonel Barry  thought the House ought to dispose of the case of the high sheriff in the first instance. He would then support an inquiry into the mode in which grand juries were constituted in Ireland.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he had only endeavoured to follow up the line of examination marked out by the learned gentleman. The learned gentleman had talked of the flagrant abuse of the administration of justice in Ireland. He (Mr. D.) wished to show that the people of that country, if they were improperly treated, had the means of redress in their own hands. He would not, however, press the question.
 Mr. Dawson  rose to order. He said that they had before them the case of the conduct of juries upon criminal matters. The learned member was going into an examination with respect to their conduct as to civil concerns—a course which he submitted was irregular.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he had had his misgivings that there was something in the state of Ireland, and in every thing connected with the administration of justice in that country, which would make it a very ticklish thing to ask a single question about it during the inquiry in which the House was engaged. He was not, therefore, much surprised at the interruption which had just been made. The hon. member who had made the objection would only allow the House a farthing candle glimmering before their eyes, instead of a torch, to light them through what he foresaw would be neither a short nor a simple examination. Now that the House had, God be thanked, for the first time, entered into an investigation of the gross and flagrant abuse of the administration of
 25
 Mr. Brougham  imagined, from the question which had been proposed by the hon. member, that his questions must have been misunderstood. He had never charged the jury with malversation.
 Mr. Brougham  complimented the hon. baronet on his candour and manliness in declaring for an open and fair inquiry. He denied having dealt out any sarcasms. He had no cause for doing so.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought it would be a most inconvenient course to enlarge the examination of witnesses, unless in the course of the proceeding, circumstances M should arise of a nature to call for it.
 Mr. H. Gurney  he believed he was warranted in stating, that the bill proposed to be brought in by the hon. and learned gentleman was by no means desired by the members of that body, who were perfectly satisfied with the law as it stood.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he had heard this statement with the greatest astonishment. They had been told, from the beginning to the end of this business, that the imputation upon the character of the attorney-general for Ireland was that of having acted without precedent. The hon. member for Armagh had concluded, his speech by saying, that his conduct had been unprecedented, contrary to the practice of the court, and not congenial to the spirit of the British constitution. If the fact which had been just stated had then been known, it would have made the greatest possible difference in the case. He wished, however, to ask one question, and, if it should be answered in the affirmative, the House would see the
 11 ex necessitate rei,
 Mr. Grattan  said, that as the gentleman alluded to had acted for his father during a series of years, he thought it advisable, that he should attend at the bar of the House. [Loud cries of "Mr. Saurin also."]
 Mr. Grattan  thought it was impossible that the witness could answer the question.
 Mr. Denman  asked if any judgment had been passed in the case mentioned by the right hon. gentleman.
 Sir G. Hill  defended Mr. Dawson, from the sarcasms of Mr. Brougham, and said that he was most anxious for the fullest scope of inquiry.
 Sir N. Colthurst  thought it very possible that the crown solicitor might have forgotten the matter, as the right hon. gentleman himself had done so.
 Sir J. Newport  thought it was impossible to disconnect the case of the high sheriff from the question of the constitution of grand juries.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that however young that person might be, he had, at the period mentioned, acted for his father; and if he was then competent to do so, he must be well acquainted with the facts of the case.
 Sir R. Fergusson  said, that so far, was the petition from being signed by woman or children, that of the 7,000 signatures there was not one of any person who did not reside in a house of 5 l.
 The Chairman  thought it was utterly impossible to lay down any strict line as to the nature of the questions that should or should not be put. A question which did not at first appear relevant, might lead to very important inferences.
 Mr. Kennedy  was rejoiced to see this petition before the House, not only be cause, coming from so important a place as Edinburgh, it must command consider able attention, but because it would bring to the test the sincerity of those persons who said they would favour reform upon, a special case being shown. The statement of his hon. friend had fully made out such a case: thy result of his intended motion would prove the sincerity of the friends of reform. The right hon. gentleman had opposed the petition, and in doing so he had acted with perfect consistency: this was the petition of 7,000 of the inhabitants of Edinburgh—he was the representative of only 33 of them. Many persons in Edinburgh had refrained from signing the petition, from the ill-success of their previous attempts for a reform of the burghs.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he believed He House were never before aware of the real state of the representation of the city of Edinburgh. It appeared that in a population of above 100,000 persons, the right hon. gentleman opposite was the representative of only 33, which number was in fact reduced to 14, by the circumstance of 19 electing their successors. The right hon. gentleman had lately finished his political career in a manner
 33 l.
 LORD Binning  was at a loss to understand with what grace a sarcasm upon close representation could proceed from the hon. member for Wareham. After all he had heard of the meeting at Edinburgh, of the stage effect (for it was held in the theatre), of the exertions used, &c he was astonished that out of a population of above 140,000, it was signed by only 7,000 persons. Every one who knew the facility with which all manner of men, women, and children, were got to sign petitions in large towns, and more particularly those who knew the extraordinary efforts which had been used to procure signatures to the petition before the House, must be surprised that they were not more numerous. Those persons who professed themselves friends to partial reform, had been called upon to support this petition. It was not in answer to that call that the rose; for he was no friend to partial, or temperate, or moderate, or any other kind of reform: but he thought this was not the case even for those gentlemen to support. No case had been made out which possessed peculiar claims. The case of Glasgow, for example, was much stronger. He considered this as an attempt to introduce parliamentary reform by piece-meal, and he trusted the House would, resist it,
 Colonel Barry  contended, that they would do nothing if they confined the inquiry to the conduct of the sheriff. He bad put questions which did not go to that point, but which he could not consider as irrelevant. One learned member (Mr. Brougham) had declared his intention to conduct the committee into an inquiry with respect to the whole state of the administration of justice in Ireland. With such a declaration as this before them, how could an extended examination be Avoided?
 Mr. J. Graltan  observed, that if they were to go into an inquiry into the conduct of the guild of merchants, and of the Lord-lieutenant of Ireland, the investigation would he without end.
 The Chairman  strongly recommended that hon. members would, in their questions, as far as possible, limit their inquiry to matters of strict fact.
 Mr. Terence O'Relity  called in and examined
 Mr. H. Drummond  denied that the petition expressed the sense of the population of Edinburgh. If there had been a strong feeling on the subject, it would have been signed by 40,000 persons.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, they were assembled to inquire into the conduct of the sheriff of Dublin, and he could not see how such a question was at all referable to his conduct. The inquiry would be interminable, if they did not adhere to that which was alone the subject of inquiry.
 Mr. Abercromby  rose to present a petition from 7,000 house holders Edinburgh; The petitioners laid most representation the peculiar state of the representation of their great city before the House. They offered he opinion on the great question of parliamentary reform, but confined their statement and their prayer to their own peculiar situation, asking that relief which the justice of the case should point out to the wisdom of the legislature. The number of the inhabitants of the city of Edinburgh exceeded 100,000. Since the union of the two kingdoms, Edinburgh possessed the privilege of nominally electing a representative in parliament: but who were the real electors? Thirty three individuals sent to that House, the representative, as he was called of the city of Edinburgh; and even out of those thirty-three, nineteen elected their successors. In that dumber the privilege granted to the city of Edinburgh positively and substantially existed. What was the amount of property possessed by the thirty-three electors, compared with the property of the population, who possessed no voice? The property of the thirty-three electors did not exceed 2,800 l. l. 32
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said that to what had just been dropped by the noble lord, coming, as it did from a professed enemy to
 34
 Mr. J. Williams  argued, that a parliamentary inquiry demanded a greater latitude than an inquiry in a court of justice.
 Mr. Hume  believed that there were not more than 10,168 houses in Edinburgh pf more than5 l. l
 Mr. W. Dundas  said, it had always been the wise custom of the House to strike at the root of abuses, when they were once exposed; but, in this case, no abuse was alleged to exist by the petitioners themselves. They, nevertheless, asked the House to do that which could not be done without the greatest injustice; they asked the House to infringe upon the chartered rights of the electors of Edinburgh—rights which, by the most solemn compact had been secured to them. He was satisfied that the House would not depart from their usual custom in this instance, nor proceed upon the allegations of a petition signed by persons who, though he did hot know them, in point of numbers bore no proportion to the inhabitants of Edinburgh.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  wished the recommendation, as far as practicable, to be adopted. Still he thought that acts of the grand jury might eventually affect and involve the conduct of the sheriff.
 Sir J. Stewart  defended the relevancy of the question he had put, and denied that the examination could be narrowed in the way recommended by his hon. friend.
 Mr. Bennet  wished the witness to be; admonished to conduct himself with that decorum which was befitting the assembly he was addressing.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that independently of the allusion of the hon. member for Armagh, the witness's whole manner was quite indecent. The committee ought not to suffer itself to be brow-beaten thus. The witness bad made the most unbecoming exhibition he had ever beheld at the bar of the House.
 Mr. Forbes  said, that the witness must have been something more than marl to have tamely borne the badgering to which he had been subjected. In his opinion the witness had displayed that proper degree of spirit which every honourable man ought to exhibit when his veracity was attempted to be impeached [Hear].
 Mr. Alderman Wood  concurred in the sentiments of the hon. member who had just Sitten down; and added, that it was a very common practice in the city of London, for gentlemen to ask the sheriffs to place them upon the grand jury.
 Mr. Abercromby  was of opinion, that as the hon. member for Armagh had made a particular allusion to the witness, the latter ought to be allowed to give an explanation of what he conceived to be a misunderstanding on the part of the former. The witness ought certainly to be admonished not to allude personally to any member.
 Mr. R. Shaw  was quite sure that the witness meant no offence whatever to the House.
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that if the witness had answered with some degree of warmth, it was, in consequence of the violent tone which hon. members had assumed towards him.
 Colonel Barry  remarked, that in producing witnesses on the part of the sheriff, he laboured under this difficulty, that the examination had been hitherto conducted by the principal learned gentlemen in the committee, whilst almost the whole weight of the cross-examination had rested upon himself. He hoped, therefore, for much indulgence in the performance of the duty which had devolved upon him.
 Colonel Barry  said, he now intended to call sir George Whiteford, the foreman of the grand jury. He knew that a grand juror was sworn not to disclose any thing which had come to his knowledge whilst in the execution of his duty, and he therefore would abstain from proposing any questions to the witness he was about to call, the answers to which would necessarily lead to a violation of his oath.
 Colonel Barry  observed, that grand jurymen had frequently given evidence of what had passed before them, in order to convict a witness of perjury.
 Mr. R. Smith  said, he recollected many cases in which grand jurymen had been compelled to give evidence. There could be no doubt as to the power of the Mouse to make a grand juryman answer all questions which he might be asked.
 Mr. Wynn  concurred entirely in the opinion which had been expressed by the two members who had last spoken; but at the same time, he hoped the question which had ben raised would not be decided without receiving further consideration, and in a fuller House. His reason for wishing this was, because he knew that many persons of very high authority held different opinions on the subject. During the inquiry respecting the Walcheren expedition, sir David Dundas was examined as to something that had passed in council. Sir David did not object to answer the questions which were put to him; but Mr. Perceval stated, that he could not do so without a breach of his oath, unless he had previously obtained the consent of the king. The question was not decided, because on the following day the king authorized sir David to declare all that had passed in council.
 Mr. Bankes  thought that the House could compel a grand juror to give any information that might be considered necessary.
 Mr. Calvert  said, he thought the understanding was, that they were not to continue the examination after the witness had objected to answer the question.
 Mr. S. Rice  considered the partial testimony given ought not to stand on the minutes.
 Mr. Bennet  was of opinion that justice could not be done unless the committee heard all that the grand jury could state.
 Mr. Wynn  believed that the power of dispensation, as regarded the oaths of grand jurymen, had existed in courts of justice prior to the 56th of the late king.
 Mr. Wetherell  said, the meaning of the oath was, that the grand jury should not voluntarily disclose the secrets of their room; but they were bound, and it was their duty, if ordered in a court of justice, or in that House, to disclose those secrets.
 Mr. Wetherell  protested against the principle laid down by the right hon. gentleman. The House of Commons had the power to absolve a grand juryman from his oath of secrecy, and could compel him to answer any question that might be proposed to him.
 Mr. Wetherell  thought that the oath of a grand juryman might be dispensed with by the power of a court of justice, and had not the smallest doubt that the 56th of the late king was declaratory. The case of admiral Byng stood upon other ground. The House of Commons, in that case, were not acting in the capacity of a court of justice.
 Mr. Sykes  said, the question was one of so delicate a nature, that it ought to be referred to the consideration of the whole House.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought it was preposterous to talk of the House absolving a man from a solemn obligation into which he had entered with his Maker.
 Mr. Brougham  said, there could be no doubt that to any fact which occurred previously to the witness being sworn as a grand juryman, or after the grand jury were discharged, he might be examined; but to an examination relative to what passed in the jury-room, he was not prepared to be a consenting party, unless a precedent could be shown for absolving the witness from his oath. In the case of admiral Byng (which he always considered as a murder)—on that infamous transaction, a bill was brought in, which passed that House, for absolving the members of the court-martial from the obligation of their oaths. It was therefore the solemn opinion of the House at that period, that an act of the legislature was necessary. But there was also the act of the 56th of the late king, for regulating grand juries, which dealt with this very matter. In that act, after directing that depositions taken before justices of the peace shall he laid before the grand jury, it is enacted, that if upon, the examination of witnesses it should appear to the grand jury that the wit-
 113
 Mr. Brougham  said, that he did not deny the statement of the noble lord, and yet it would rather go to support the reasoning of Mr. Cobbet. It was not even necessary for him to palliate the offences of the two young men: for the question was, how came they to kill the gamekeepers? and then the answer might be, in consequence of the state of the law. That was the very argument he had used before the court on the trial of 21 persons the other day, charged with murder on the high seas, and it prevailed, too, with the jury: for the men were killed in consequence of that most abominable law, which enabled revenue cruisers to fire shotted guns upon the ships of any nation within two leagues of the British coast.
 Mr. Brougham  rose, he said, to present a petition from a writer of eminent talents, respecting the Game Laws, which contained statements, as he thought, deserving the gravest consideration of the House. It was signed "W. Cobbett," and it prayed, that as there was a motion for bringing in a bill for the alteration of the Game Laws, the House would be graciously pleased to pause before passing an act which, as the petitioner had been informed, was likely to go to legalize the sale of game by lords of manors, and other privileged persons to be designated in the act. It prayed that the House would weigh well and consider the state of the laws, and the severe hardships
 80 81
 Mr. Brougham  thought the statute enacting, and not declaratory. At the same time he thought that the committee ought to take the sense of the House upon the point.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that an act of parliament had been passed expressly to allow grand jurors to give evidence in cases of perjury, "notwithstanding their oath of secrecy." If he were a grand juror, he would refuse, even at the call of the House, to state what had come to his knowledge whilst in the exercise of his functions. Some of the witnesses who were about to be examined at the bar might entertain similar feelings. The House would then, in justification to its own character, be called upon to punish men for what they conceived to be a conscientious adherence to their oaths. To avoid so unfortunate a circumstance, he would entreat hon. members to weigh well their questions.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the oaths which the grand jurymen took were intended for the benefit of the public. That being the case, why should they not be made subservient to the inquiry in which the House was engaged, which was also for the public benefit?
 Mr. Abercromby  had no objection to an adjournment, but could not help wishing that the question had been mooted upon the evidence of the first witness. He thought, as far as he could give an opinion upon the sudden, that the House had power to dispense with the oath, and compel the witness to give his evidence.
 Mr. Abercromby  suggested, that if it were thought necessary to refer to the decison of the House the question, whether or not a grand juror ought to be called upon to answer as to what passed in the jury room, and which he considered he was bound by his oath not to divulge, the best way would
 105
 Mr. Benett,  of Wilts, admitted that the two young men had suffered death very properly in Hampshire. Still he thought that the state of the law demanded reformation. Most of the offences of the country might be considered as results from the severity of the game-laws. Offenders were gradually trained from poaching to shop-lifting, and then to housebreaking, and occasionally murder.
 Mr. Hurst  contended, that the oath of a grand juryman was too strictly interpreted if it were supposed to restrain him from making known any thing which had come before him in the execution of his duty. It had frequently come under his own observation that grand jurymen, amongst whom a difference of opinion prevailed upon some point, had come into open court, and stated what had passed in the grand jury room, in order to obtain the opinion of the judge, as a rule for their conduct.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the 56th of the late king was meant to declare what the law was, and not to make a new law. With that avowed view, it had been introduced. It was to correct an irregularity that existed in the Irish practice of the law, and to place it upon the same footing with the practice in England.
 Sir T. Baring  corroborated the statements in Mr. Cobbett's petition. Half the offenders in Hampshire were committed for poaching.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the two young men in question were executed, not for poaching, but for murder. One of them had killed a game-keeper who was in the lawful exercise of his duty, the other had levelled his piece at another gamekeeper, who received the contents in his body, but from proper treatment recovered. He was able to speak with certainty upon the characters of the young men, as they were servants of his, and he must say a more cruel and deliberate outrage had never been committed.
 Mr. Plunkett  rose merely to state what he conceived to be the bounden duty of the House. A charge had been brought forward by an hon. baronet against the sheriff of Dublin, for having improperly empanelled a grand jury. Now, without entering into the question which had that night been so much discussed, it would surely be a gross injustice to the sheriff if the evidence affecting the empanelling of that jury—if the testimony of the grand jury itself—could not be heard, supposing it necessary to his defence. He rose, therefore, to submit to the House, that if these interrogatories were not to be put, all the previous evidence that had been taken affecting the conduct of the
 129
 Mr. Baring  said, that however important this case was, the House were bound to take care that the more important interests of the community were not made subservient to its convenience. The question really was, was the grand juror's
 126 ex parte
 Colonel Barry  said, he should extremely regret any circumstance which would prevent the sheriff of Dublin from producing at their bar testimony which would go to contradict that which he (col. Barry) believed in his conscience to be false evidence. Indeed, he should regret any thing which would put an extinguisher upon the present inquiry. The grand jury themselves, as far as he had been led to understand, had no objection to state at the bar what took place before them, as they did not conceive the obligation of their oath went so far as to prevent them from giving evidence in any inquiry instituted by that House for the purpose of attaining the ends of justice.
 The Attorney General  observed, that when, two nights ago, the first question was put to a witness with respect to the conduct of the grand jury, he had entered I his protest against such a line of evidence, because he foresaw, that, if it were persevered in, the committee would be placed in the dilemma in which they now stood. He regretted that the House had not listened to his advice upon that occasion. He knew that in the case of sir John Fenwick the House had compelled a grand juror to state proceedings which had passed in the jury room; but he doubted whether it would be expedient to follow that precedent upon the present occasion. He had not yet made up his mind open that point, and he hoped that the committee would not come to a hasty decision of the question before it. Of this he was satisfied, that if the committee should refuse to receive the evidence of the grand jury, they ought, in justice to those gentlemen, to expunge from the minutes of evidence every word which related to their conduct.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that in his opinion the House had decidedly the power to inquire into what passed before the grand jury, and that it would be no violation of the oath of any grand juror to give the fullest information the House might require of him. If the question under consideration was, whether in every case that
 133
 Colonel Barry  was of opinion, that the proceeding suggested by the right hon. baronet would be an act of gross injustice towards the grand jury. Could the committee, after having allowed all the calumny (he did not use the word in an offensive sense) which had been uttered against the grand jury to be published, now refuse to hear and record their vindication?
 The Solicitor General,  in answer to the remark of the hon. gentleman, as to the interruption of the defence, begged leave to remind the House of the course taken by the petitioner. He had occupied from eight to ten hours of three successive days in his defence, after which he was convicted. He had a motion in term to set aside the Verdict, which he argued for Several hours. The member for Nottingham had moved in arrest judgment in
 116 levari facias,
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it was admitted that the prosecutions had caused so extensive a sale of the libellous books, that the petitioner must have been fully enabled to pay the fine. But Mr. Carlile was not in prison merely for the non-payment of the fine; he was also called upon for recognizances for his good behaviour. He had, however, continued, according to his promise, up to the latest minute, to publish the offensive books. He did not wish to press the circumstance against him; but certainly it formed a good ground for using precaution as to the persons who were prepared to become bound for him. As the margin of the petition contained the titles of all the offensive books sold by the petitioner, if the House should print it, they would give a publicity to them which it was, on all accounts, desirable to avoid.
 Colonel Barry  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to an article in a newspaper respecting the pending inquiry into the conduct of the sheriff of Dublin. He felt reluctant to propose the bringing a printer to the bar of that House; but the object of the paragraph to which he alluded was so obviously to impede the course of public justice, that he felt obliged to notice it. The obscurity of the paper in which it was contained might have induced him to pass it by in silence, were not its wickedness and falsehood such as to make it unfit that, even upon the limited number of the readers of that paper, such an impression should be suffered to remain. He then proceeded to read an article from "The British Press," animadverting upon the conduct and character of the Orange party in Ireland, and commenting upon the evidence given at the bar of the House. The hon. member proceeded to read a precedent from the Journals of the House,
 118
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he would advise his hon. friend not to proceed further. Much consideration was certainly due to his wounded feelings, but he should recollect that his character was proof against any attack of the kind. When the liberty of the press was so abused, its licentiousness became its own correction; for it was the natural consequence of gross and disgraceful exaggerations to lessen the credit of the source from which they proceeded.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that before the committee proceeded to examine the witness on points involving the performance of his duty as a member of a grand jury, they ought to decide the general principle of the capability of dispensing with the obligation of his oath of secrecy. A grand juryman was sworn not to divulge the counsel of the king, or of himself of fellows. The examination now about to be entered upon might put a grand juryman in, a situation at variance with that oath. As to the power of absolving the witness from such obligation, he would express no opinion, but would leave it for the committee to determine.
 Mr. Wynn  maintained that the House was entitled, in the discharge of its highest functions, to call on grand jurors to answer such questions as might be deemed necessary. This had been decided in the case of sir John Fenwick. Sir John had absconded, in consequence of a serious charge that had been brought against
 120
 Colonel Barry  had no objection to adopt the course recommended, if the House were of opinion that the article which he had read was an instance of gross injustice. He did not wish to bring the House in collision with those people. "But unless something be done," said the, hon. member, "the press will become our masters, instead of we being theirs."
 Mr. Wynn  said, that witnesses and even culprits charged in that House were under its protection. He, however, thought, in the present instance, that sufficient had been done to prevent a repetition of the offence.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, the present was a question of very great difficulty. No man felt more strongly than he did the necessity of granting to the House the most extensive power for carrying on an inquiry of this description, and no man was more ready to admit that they were not, in their proceedings, to abide by the rules of a court of justice. There was, he conceived, only one case to which their authority did not apply, and that was the present case precisely, which was one of conscience. First of all, they placed individuals in a situation in which they were compelled to do certain acts. The grand jurors were obliged to take an oath, "not to divulge their own counsel, the king's counsel, or the counsel of their fellows," and then the House turned round and demanded of them to violate that oath. Was there, he would ask, any power in that House to release men from so solemn an obligation? Or, if there were, was it prudent, when the force of such an obligation depended altogether on conscientious feelings, to compel men to act; in contradiction to those feelings? Might not the
 121
 Mr. Keith Douglas  said, that rather than have the proceedings conducted in this undecided manner, he would wish the whole inquiry to be put a stop to at once; and if any member felt disposed to second him, he would move that the chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again that day six months.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that the House had to come to a decision upon this abstract point—whether the House ought to compel a grand juror to answer? He had declared from the outset, that unless the, proposed interrogatories were put and, answered, gross injustice would be done to the sheriff, by suffering what was already On the minutes to remain there without giving him the opportunity of reply.
 Mr. R. Smith  proposed to move, That, under all the circumstances of the case, it is not expedient to proceed with the inquiry with respect to any thing that passed before the grand jury."
 Colonel Barry  was opposed to the expunging of any thing, from the minutes. If anything were expunged, the charge would have been published in all the newspapers, without the means of giving it an answer. He was willing to rest the case of the grand jury on what had already appealed, without pressing it further.
 Colonel Barry  added, that he should call some of the grand jurors, but not to any matters connected with what had passed before them when the bills were ignored.
 Colonel Barry  begged to state, in the first place, that he was no Orangeman. As to the terms of the oath, they were in print. The witness could have no motive to conceal what was known to almost every body. He hoped it would not be laid down, that because an individual had taken an oath as an Orangeman, he was therefore not to be believed.
 Mr. Wetherell,  in explanation, begged that he might not have all the high merit and distinction of treating the question of certain oaths with some degree of ridicule. That merit was to be shared at least with that great and enlightened moralist and divine Dr. Paley, whose book he had quoted from.
 Mr. Wetherell  entirely concurred in the opinion, that no court ought, on light grounds, to interfere with the scruples of religious persons, in the construction of an obligation. But, what was the case here? Let them not confound in one common sense, civil and religious obligations. What was the nature of the oath in this case? It was strictly an obligation for the performance of a civil duty: it had, certainly, from its nature, two aspects—one a religious, the other a civil obligation: but, in what sense did the religious part become involved? Why, to give effect to and to enforce the civil. It was, in fact, a pledge  coram Deo, 124 quis imposuit, et quo animo? quo animo 125
 Mr. Canning  could not at all agree with those who considered that the oath taken by grand jurors by no means strictly connected itself in their minds with the business before the grand jury. He did believe that they who took the oath to keep secret the king's counsels, their own, and their fellows', imagined that they were solemnly pledging themselves to keep secret what might pass amongst and before them, on the subject of such bills as were brought under their consideration. If this was an erroneous view of the character of the oath, it would rather be a ground for a new legislative enactment, than for the course which had been proposed on the present occasion. The practical question to be decided by the House was, whether the proposed mode of inquiry was to be proceeded in? This question, in his view of it, involved two most material points; first, as to the authority possessed by the House of enforcing such a course of examination; and secondly, as to the discretion which they ought to use in carrying that authority into execution. Now, as to the power of the House to enforce such a mode of inquiry in cases of emergency, certainly no one could deny it. But, unless in cases of great emergency, he thought even the discussion of that right a matter pregnant with much danger. It was a question which, on every ground, ought not to be debated, except when a case arose that rendered its agitation necessary. The present was not a case of that kind; and the case put by the hon. and learned gentleman opposite was of little importance in its bearing upon it. The House need hardly consider in what way it would be disposed to exercise its discretion upon the matter before them, if it was not called upon to do so under existing circumstances. It seemed to be admitted on all hands, that a refusal by a party who had taken the oath of a grand juror to answer certain questions that might be put to him in the course of this inquiry, would not constitute, whether arising from purely conscientious, or merely discretionary motives, such a case as should call upon the House for the exercise of its extreme severity in sending the witness from their
 128
 Mr. Canning  said, that the decision of the House, if it should be for allowing the question objected to to be put, would still leave the real point open for dicussion, for the witness might go on with his testimony until he came to some point which he might consider himself prevented from answering by his oath of secrecy. The question would then be raised as to the power of the House to compel him,. If, however, the committee should decide that the question should not be put, they would cut off the matter altogether. The right hon. gentleman then referred to the petition of the grand jury, in which they complained of the imputations cast upon them by the attorney-general for Ireland, and which imputations they observed they were prevented from rebutting by the oath of secrecy by which they were bound. Now this, he observed, was sufficient to show the feeling which that jury entertained with respect to their oaths, and that the committee were proceeding to do that to which they had such a conscientious objection.
 Mr. Canning  said, that if all the jury
 135
 Mr. Dawson  said, if the grand jury sought to give an explanation of their conduct, the opportunity should not be denied them of answering charges so unequivocally made.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he had been in doubt whether any examination of a grand juror should take place, but the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham) had completely removed that doubt from his mind. After what had been said of the conduct of the sheriff and the grand jury, it would not be doing justice to either, nor dealing fairly with the administration of justice in Ireland which was thus impeached, if they did not go into the fullest examination of all those whose evidence tended to the elucidation of truth. However inconvenient the course of examination proposed might be, he thought it ought to be gone into.
 Mr. Tierney  conceived that they must have all the evidence respecting the grand jury or none. Would it not be better to shape some middle course, and instruct the chairman to state to any grand juror who might come before the committee, that he must either be silent as to the conduct of the jury, or consent to be examined touching all that occurred.
 Mr. Bright  contended, that upon a question of such vital importance as this, it was incumbent upon the House to exercise its undoubted privilege of obtaining the utmost information, and he appealed to the highest authority in that louse to declare whether their privileges would not be affected, if they were compelled to stop here. Let the House see the state in which they would be placed. The acquittal of this sheriff would follow, not upon the merits of the case, but upon the absolute impossibility of their obtaining the information necessary for the ends of justice.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that he had last night recommended delay, in order to give opportunity for a mature inquiry into a point of so grave and serious a nature as the present. He was now anxious to offer a few observations upon it, and the more so as he confessed that he now felt much fewer doubts upon it than he did on the former occasion. He certainly was of opinion, that if the House could avoid coming to any decision upon this point—if they could prevail on themselves not to decide upon it—that would be the most convenient, as well as the safest course which they could adopt; but that course could, only be adopted by their abstaining altogether from inquiring into what passed Before the grand jury. For it certainly would be going against justice to enter at all upon the inquiry without pursuing it to its fullest extent. Then, the practical question for the consideration of the committee was, could this inquiry go on with safety to its own object—could it be effectually prosecuted—without inquiring what did take place before the grand jury? If there was any member in that House who thought not, then that member must be also of opinion, that the inquiry must be prosecuted to its fullest extent. And then would come the inquiry as to the power of the House to absolve a grand juror from the obligation of his oath. He saw no middle course. If they could not go into that inquiry without taking this course, and if the House did not possess the power of taking it, then it must drop altogether—a circumstance for which he has no doubt every member of the House would feel extremely sorry. But he did not feel that they were placed in this dilemma: he did not conceive that what had passed before the grand jury of Dublin was necessary to the vindication of the sheriff's character; and his reason for thinking so was this: The main question to be inquired into was, whether the sheriff had packed the grand jury? Now, if that jury so packed, had done as it was expected they would do, and if this were proved, it certainly would tend much to the crimination of the sheriff; but if they had been disobedient, and had not done what it was expected they would do by the person who packed them (always supposing them
 130 131 132
 Mr. Brougham  said, if the sheriff and his friends desired it, he saw no objection to the examination; but he did not think the examination of the grand jury at all necessary to the case of the sheriff.
 Mr. Brougham  fully concurred in what had been said by the right hon. gentleman. The only practicable method was to postpone to the last moment the decision of the abstract question. It would thus be left open to the hon. colonel to call any grand juror he thought right to bring forward. If he did not think it necessary to produce them, the question would not arise [Hear].
 Mr. Goulburn,  protested against the inference of the hon. member. He should be glad to know, whether the hon.
 140
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the question.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was very natural for an Irishman to wish to clear the administration of justice in that country from every; imputation. of partiality. He was
 134
 Mr. Abercromby  observed, that if the newspapers refrained from making any comments upon the inquiry now in progress, they would be better employed. With respect to the article just read, he had no hesitation in saying, that was a highly-coloured statement. He was, however, happy to have that opportunity of stating, that since he had become a member of that House, there was no instance in which he had received such a multiplicity of newspapers, pamphlets, and other writings, all coming from the other side, and containing statements that were most exaggerated with respect to the conduct of the attorney general for Ireland. He requested the hon. member to consider, whether, under, all the circumstances, it would be advisable, to engage the House
 119
 Mr. Abercromby  stated it to be the opinion of Mr. Fox, that when the House acted in the capacity of a court of inquiry its powers ought to be as large as possible. He then went into an explanation of the act for the regulation of the proceedings of Irish grand juries, which bill did not relate to  viva voce
 Mr. Hume  accounted for the inability of Mr. Carlile to pay the fine, by the fact that he had invested the profits of his former sale, in the expense of the works which were seized under the levy.
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from Richard Carlile, a prisoner in Dorchester gaol, praying the House to consider the hardship to which he had been put. The treatment which Mr. Carlile had received was novel in its nature. There were strong prejudices against Carlile, which he regarded-as being wholly without foundation. The fact was, that Carlile was, previously to the distresses in 1816, a very respectable mechanic. Those distresses had so reduced him in his circumstances, that he was forced to become a hawker of pamphlets; and at the time of lord Sidmouth's circular he had been employed under Sherwin, who published a Political Register. But, up to this day he would say, that Mr. Carlile was one of the best moral characters in England [hear!]. Notwithstanding that "hear!" he would persist in his opinion. Mr. Carlile's religious opinion might differ from that of some other persons; but that did not affect his moral character; and he would dare any one to contradict him when he said, that as a husband, as a father, as head of a family, and as a neighbour, Mr. Carlile might challenge calumny itself. Now, what had those by whom this man had been persecuted made of it? Why, it appeared that the circulation of the books had been prodigiously increased by the measures which had been adopted for the purpose of suppressing them. Previous to Mr. Carlile's first trial, he had published an edition of Paine's religious works, and though 250 copies of
 115 l. of alevari facias,
 Mr. Hume  contended, that this was necessary to-ascertain how far the witness was bound to secresy. After his declaration, that he did not recollect what he had sworn to, his testimony ought to be received with great caution.
 Mr. Lennard  considered the sentence passed on Mr. Carlile as one of unconstitutional severity. That severity he looked upon as one of the signs of the times. It appeared to him that the supporters of the six acts having failed in their efforts to procure the punishment of perpetual banishment, had contrived, through the agency of the judges, to supply that deficiency by sentences which amounted to perpetual imprisonment.
 Mr. Denman  observed, that the proceedings in the case before the, House proved that irreligion could also produce its martyrs. Such were the effects of that re-action which the operation of the joint-stock purse of the self-called "Constitutional Association" had produced. He understood that the funds of that purse were
 117
 Mr. Denman  argued that this was a proper case for calling upon a grand juror to give his testimony at the bar. The case of James 2nd, who had broken his compact with the people and the government, furnished an instance in which subjects might be said not so much to have been absolved from their oath of allegiance, as that that oath no longer applied to them. If so much stress was to be laid upon the doctrine, that in no possible case was a grand juror to be Freed from the obligation of his oath, let the House observe what mischievous consequences might follow: a man might prefer a bill against another before a grand jury, fraudulently and maliciously, upon his oath; and when that bill should come on to be tried before a petty jury, he might swear precisely contrary to the tenor of his former oath; and a grand juror, happening to be present, would be prevented from at once demonstrating the perjury of such a witness, and the innocence of the accused, because he was to be held bound not to divulge what had taken place before him. The hon. and learned gentleman then proceeded to show, on the authority of lord Somers, that the oath of a grand juror "not to disclose the king's counsels, his fellows, or his own," was intended for the security of the rights, lives, and property of the king's subjects, and could by no, means be construed to prevent a grand juror from giving his evidence in aid of justice concluded by expressing his concurrence
 127
 Mr. Peel  observed, that the committee had, in fact, nothing to do with the grand jury, but as its conduct implicated or acquitted the sheriff. He saw no reason why it should not proceed with other parts of the inquiry, regarding which all were agreed, and postpone this question respecting the grand jury, until it was found necessary to decide it.
 Sir G. Hill  thought that the evidence already gone into respecting the grand jury was by no means necessary to the Case of the sheriff. Indeed it was his opinion, that it would be greatly for the convenience House and the coun-
 136
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that since the presentation of the petition, the grand jury had presented another jointly with the sheriff, in which they prayed for the fullest investigation into their conduct, and expressed their willingness to repair to London for that purpose.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  did not see how the committee could possibly refuse to the grand jury an opportunity of defending themselves if they required it. As to the oath of secrecy, the grand jury by their joint petition with the sheriff, in which they complained of the charges made against them, and expressed their readiness to repair to London to aid any inquiry which the House might please to go into, distinctly waived the question of secrecy; because examination could take place to exculpate them, but an examination of themselves. This petition either gave up any objection to be examined as to what passed in the jury room, or it was a dishonest attempt to deceive the House.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, the question was, properly, whether an individual could be absolved from the sanction of an oath annexed to civil services of state, or the pure administration of justice, where the service was not for his own advantage, but was a duty imposed upon him. The right hon. gentleman opposite denied that any human authority could dispense with
 122 123
 Sir M. W. Ridley  thought, that as the paragraph read by the hon. gentleman did not contain any reflection upon the character of any member of the House, although its insinuations were injurious to the characters of others, enough had been done in the notice which had been already taken of it. As those individuals, who, some how or other, obtained a knowledge of the proceedings of the House, had in general abstained from commenting upon the inquiry, he would suggest to the hon. gentleman the expediency of withdrawing his motion.
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, that the attorney-general for Ireland had "declared it was not his intention to cast any imputation upon the grand jury. It appeared, however, that in the list of witnesses which he had given in, there were five persons who could not be examined for any other purpose but that of impugning the conduct of the grand jury, as they were called to state how they had been treated when called before that body to give their evidence. Under these circumstances, he thought the fullest inquiry should be entered upon, for the purpose of giving all the parties an opportunity of defending themselves.
 Sir J. Newport  said he would not make the motion in opposition to the opinion of the right hon. gentleman.
 Sir J. Newport  suggested that a motion should be made to expunge from the minutes all that related to the conduct of the grand jury. [Cries of "move."] He would first wish to know the opinion of the right hon. gentleman opposite.
 Lord Milton  thought the observation of the right hon. secretary extremely weak, and beside the question. Did it follow, because hon. members might not be able to recite the oaths they had taken, that they did not know the tenor of them? He agreed with his hon. friend that this man's testimony ought to be received with great caution, after his declaration that he, did not recollect the oath he had taken. He believed it was well known that the Orange oath contained something beyond the mere obligation to support the king and constitution.
 Mr. Huskisson  fully agreed in the propriety of repealing the acts. He could only account for the existence of such statutes by their having been passed at a time when the silk-trade was almost confined to Spitalfields. Since the manufacture, however, had been carried into other parts of the country, the provisions of those acts must be got rid of; or Spitalfields would be deserted. His attention had been drawn to the subject almost immediately upon his coming into office; but he had abstained from bringing forward any specific measure, because he wished to convince the manufacturers first of the necessity of an alteration. Some prejudice, and indeed, a good deal, still existed among the workmen; but the House really ought to act for them without reference to those prejudiced. It was his
 150
 Alderman Thompson  bore testimony to the pernicious operation of the law, which he hoped to see repealed, and trusted that the trade would be relieved from the duties on raw silk.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he would propose his resolutions on Monday, and move for leave to bring in a bill for an alteration of the law, in the different stages of which the parties alluded to would have sufficient opportunity to present their petitions.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, it was his intention, in proposing that committee, to move for the repeal of several statutes, which imposed regulations injurious to the trade. These statutes had been passed at a time when the House was in the habit of interfering with the business of individuals. The 13th of George the 1st was in itself a striking instance of the absurdity of such enactments. It professed to regulate, not only the shape of the cloth,
 151
 Sir R. Fergusson  expressed his thanks to the right hon. gentleman for the pains he had taken to remove the vexatious enactments under which the trade had so long suffered, and declared his conviction that the intended measure would be received with satisfaction and gratitude by the people of Scotland.
 Mr. Maberly  concurred in approving of the measure, but regretted that it should be found necessary to continue for a single day so useless an expence as the stamp commissioners. He trusted, however, that they would be enabled to put an end to that board in the next session of parliament.
 Mr. John Jackson  was called in; and examined
 Mr. William Graham  called in; and examined
 Mr. Wynn  had no objection to the examination of the right hon. gentleman, but thought that any inquiry, having for its object the sort of jury that ought to have been empanelled, would be highly injudicious.
 Colonel Barry  felt himself placed in a very painful situation, but painful as his duty was, he would not shrink from it. If the house thought fit, through any overstrained delicacy, to interfere, he must submit; but till they did, he should persevere [Hear, hear]. He now wished to ask the right hon. gentleman whether he had ever had an opportunity of seeing the rules and regulations of Orangemen?
 Mr. Plunkett. —I do not know exactly what is meant by the question; I have had an opportunity of seeing a printed book, containing the rules and regulations of Orangemen, and I have had an opportunity of seeing extracts from books, containing rules and regulations of Orangemen; in that sense I have seen the rules and regulations of Orangemen.
 Colonel Barry  said, that he should not have examined the right hon. gentleman without first obtaining his consent.
 Mr. Plunkett  begged his learned friend's pardon. The present investigation he conceived to be into the conduct of Mr. Sheriff Thorpe, and any question touching that matter he would willingly answer to the best of his power.
 The Attorney General  thought that his right hon. and learned friend, like any other hon. member, was liable to examination by the house, on any topic connected with the pending investigation, unless the question put should be an improper one. As far as the; inquiry. Had
 160
 Mr. Plunkelt  said, that, in a popular sense, he had no objection to answer the question proposed to him.
 Mr. Wetherell  repeated his objection, and added, that in the whole course of his parliamentary experience he knew of no case in which an attorney-general, on such an examination, seeing how intimately he must be connected with the prosecution of the inquiry, would not of necessity, be a witness against himself. His objection was to the irregularity and inexpediency of such an examination, and was not founded on any apprehension arising from his fears for the honour, the candour, or the ability of the right hon. gentleman. He was convinced it would be most unadvisable to pursue this examination.
 Mr. Wetherell,  before the house proceeded further, begged to rise to order.
 Mr. Wetherell  rose to order, and objected to the attorney-general for Ireland being examined in a case which involved his professional character.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought, that if it could not be done at present, it ought as soon as possible to be extended to Ireland.
 Mr. Ricardo  could not help expressing his astonishment that, in the year 1823, those acts should be existing and in force. They were not merely an interference with the freedom of trade, but they cramped the freedom of labour itself. Such was their operation, that a man who was disposed to embark in the trade could not employ his capital in it in London; and, as it might be inconvenient, in many instances to carry that capital out of London, the trade was necessarily cramped and fettered.
 Mr. Ellice  hoped that the parties who supposed themselves interested in the existing restraints would be afforded time to petition.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the course of the examination pursued in order to ascertain what the conduct of Orangemen had been, was perfectly right; but it was quite a different thing to examine the attorney-general for Ireland, whether he had become acquainted with the oaths of Orangemen, and whether he had adopted any proceedings in consequence. This would be in fact nothing less than asking for the legal opinion of the right hon. gentleman on the question.
 Mr. F. Buxton  gave the petition his decided support, from a conviction that a compliance with its prayer would tend to better the condition of all connected with the trade, and of none more than the workmen.
 Mr. Hume  agreed that it would be an advantage to Ireland; but as there were prejudices in that country which might throw obstacles in the way of its execution, he thought the right hon. gentleman had done right not to mix up the case of the two countries.
 Mr. Wallace  perfectly agreed in thinking the acts unjust to the merchant, unjust to the manufacturer, and, above all, unjust to the workmen. He thought them a disgrace to the Statute-book.
 Mr. T. Wilson  presented a petition from the Silk-manufacturers of London and Westminster against the statutes of the 13th, 32nd, and 51st of the late king, usually styled the Spitalfields' Acts, which empower the magistrates to fix the wages of journeymen silk-manufacturers, and impose other restrictions highly injurious to the trade. In proof
 144 l. l.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that the restraints of the existing law had driven one considerable branch of the silk-trade from Spitalfields to Norwich.
 Sir G. Hill  said, that unless the examination was to ascertain some specific fact, he must object, on the ground of public, convenience, to the attorney-general's examination in this manner. He was the law-officer of the Crown, and had, in some
 159
 Sir H. Parnell  thought, that as the same system must produce the same evils in Ireland, the benefit of this measure ought to be extended to that country.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  observed, that they were not called upon prospectively to decide whether such or such a particular question would be an improper one to put to the learned gentleman, but whether, as attorney-general for Ireland, he ought to be examined at all? In his opinion, the learned gentleman ought not to be examined.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, it would be best to proceed in the examination, leaving it to the sound discretion of the right hon. gentleman to refuse answering any question when he saw the propriety of doing so.
 Lord Milton  rejoiced in any prospect of getting rid of the obnoxious statutes, and observed upon the absurdity of raising a duty upon raw silk imported. Under the present system, a duty was levied upon raw silk imported, and, on the other hand, a bounty was given upon the exportation of manufactured silks. Now, great difficulty was found in apportioning the bounty, particularly upon goads composed of silk mixed with other material. Would it not be wise, and generally convenient, to get rid of the duty on one hand, and the bounty on the other?
 Mr. Baring  said, that the effect of the law as it at present existed, was to prevent the circulation of goods. Its operation had been a source of complaint from the earliest period that he could recollect any thing of business. British merchants were not generally thought more fond of encouraging frauds than the members of his learned friend's profession. The error in his learned friend's argument had arisen from his not understanding the nature of trade. He had thought that there were two sorts of persons—merchants and factors; but in commerce merchants were factors, and factors were merchants, both purchasing goods upon commission. The great inconvenience felt from the present system was, that money could not be raised by the hypothecation of goods, because it was not known to whom they belonged. The object of the proposed alteration would be, to establish the principle, that
 212
 Mr. Huskisson  agreed with the hon. gentleman as to the importance of the subject. He held a petition, which he should present in the course of the evening, from the merchants, and nearly all the persons of capital in the town he had the honour to represent, the prayer of which was similar to that now before the House. They were unanimous in their wish that the existing law should be altered. He trusted that the learned gentleman would, for this reason, not oppose the appointment of a committee. He did not wish that the principle of the law should be altered; because he felt, I that whatever good a change of that kind would bring with it, would be greatly overbalanced by the evil which it would create. The hon. gentleman said, that the alteration which was proposed would merely have the effect of preventing a factor from paying his debts with the goods of his principal. If that were all, there would be no necessity for referring the question to a committee. But there I were, in fact, other considerations which a committee might with propriety inquire into. Great inconvenience arose from the present state of the law; and he knew that judges on the bench, when deciding on particular cases, had alluded to the injustice which was connected with it. But it was not necessary, in removing these inconveniences, that the principle of the law should be altered. If they considered the subject in a committee up stairs, it would be only necessary to inquire whether the law might not be so altered, as to prevent the frauds which now prevailed under it.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  presented a petition from the butchers of Leadenhall-market, complaining of the glut of Russian Tallow in the market, and praying for a further import duty on that article. He should be glad to know from the president of the Board of Trade, whether ministers had it not in their serious consideration to add considerably to the present import duty on tallow? It was quite monstrous that foreigners should be allowed to glut the British market with their produce.
 Mr. Huskisson  regretted that the chancellor of the exchequer was not present to answer for himself. The hon. baronet must see that the placing an additional duty on tallow was a financial, not a commercial, measure.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  argued, that the additional duty would not fall on the consumer.
 Mr. Bennet  was surprised that the chancellor of the exchequer should persevere in a measure, in favour of which not one voice had been raised, and which bore on the face of it the greatest injustice. In order to condemn it, it was enough to say, that it was a measure to fix the price of an article of trade. By retaining the duty on beer, instead of converting it into a duty on malt, the rich man escaped with less burthen than the poor man.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that upon the last discussion he had endeavoured, to the best of his ability, to reply to all the objections started by the hon. member who had last spoken; and, as other opportunities of discussing the measure would arise, he did not feel himself called upon to enter upon it at present.
 Mr. Maberly  said, the bill was most unjust towards the brewer. It took from him, in the first place, the sale and consumption of the ordinary sort of beer, and next prevented him from making up his loss, by declaring that he should not brew any beer of the intermediate kind, unless he built new premises. The bill, it appeared, was an experiment. To the brewer it was certainly a very expensive one. He must either submit to lose his trade, or he must erect new buildings at great cost. If he right hon. gentleman had gone into a revision of the excise laws, it must have struck him that the duty on beer was improper. The duty ought to be placed on the malt. The duty
 216 s.; l.
 Mr. F. Palmer  was of opinion that the bill, with certain modifications, would be better than the continuance of the existing law.
 Mr. Maberly  wished to ask whether there would be any objection to the appointment of a committee, to consider the propriety of placing the duty upon malt, and thereby saving, in the ma-
 217 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would be ready to meet the arguments of the gentlemen opposite when the bill came regularly under the consideration of the house.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he certainly would not oppose the appointment of a committee if he thought it could be productive of any beneficial result, but he could entertain no such opinion. He had been in constant communication with the parties who opposed this measure, and had uniformly held out to them the same expectations; therefore, the measure now in contemplation could not be said to have come suddenly upon them. Fom all he had been able to learn, he felt convinced that the trade would be much more flourishing than it was at present, if the restrictions in question were totally removed. If he obtained leave to bring in the bill to-night he would move the second reading on Friday, and proceed in the other stages after the holidays. He did this from a conviction, that any delay would only have the effect of keeping
 218
 Mr. Robertson  said, that in his opinion all the troubles of Ireland arose from the persecution of the Catholic religion. Whilst a great portion of the population were kept aloof from the privileges of the constitution, it was impossible to hope for permanent tranquillity. The renewal of the Insurrection act was only throwing a firebrand amongst the already inflamed population of that country. They must go deeper and reach the causes of the disaffection. It was the moral principle of man which was at work in Ireland, which forbad him to rest satisfied with degradation unjustly inflicted. They could hardly expect, indeed they ought not to hope, that the country would be at rest while those degradations were continued. He would show, by a reference to past events, how little measures of coercion were calculated to supply the place of fair and equal laws. At a time when all the monarchs of Europe were leagued with the church of Rome against the Protestants, how had they succeeded? Not one Dissenter had been reclaimed to the Catholic worship. Charles 5th had tried in vain the united power of the church decrees, his own political importance, and the vast wealth which he had
 227
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that as he had been much misrepresented, but no doubt unintentionally, by the noble lord who had just sat down, he must take the liberty of addressing a few words to the House upon this question. He could not be fairly charged with inconsistency for the support which he was now giving to this bill, inasmuch as he had advocated it last year, and also in 1806, when he was connected with the duke of Bedford's administration in Ireland. He allowed that it contained a most unconstitutional principle, seeing that it annihilated the trial by jury; and he lamented, as much as any man could do, the melancholy necessity which compelled the government to inflict it at present upon Ireland. Still, the measure was to be only of a temporary nature, and was much better than the introduction of martial law, which appeared so desirable to the hon. member for Cork. The introduction of martial law, he, for one, did not like; because, it was sure to produce irritation, and it could not be attended, either directly or remotely, by any conciliatory or beneficial consequences. The great evil under which Ireland at present laboured, was the reluctance felt by individuals to come
 230 sine qua non 231 232
 Lord Ennismore  said, he considered that the Insurrection act ought to be passed, but with considerable amendments. In some parts of Ireland many were prevented by fear from becoming public prosecutors. The act was not, as it stood at present, sufficient. But one punishment existed in it, and that was transportation for seven years. Now, that would be a heavy punishment to a man who was a husband and a father of a family; but to a single man it was inconsiderable. He insisted that the lord lieutenant ought to be invested with power to put any district under martial law; for that measure was the only one held in terror in Ireland. The people feared a trial before a tribunal which was not to be influenced by the ingenuity of barristers or attornies. Such tribunals were necessary in such a country. He could assure the House, that not a night passed last winter without excesses of some kind or other. He, therefore, thought that government should be enabled to use more vigorous measures. The absentee system was, he admitted, one great source of misery to Ireland; but it should be recollected that gentlemen who continued to reside there were obliged to keep their doors and windows barred, and sat down to dinner with fire-arms on their table. The lower classes in Ireland were certainly possessed of warm and generous feelings, but they lived in a state of entire ignorance of the power and resources of this country. They attributed every tiling to fear; and considered every act of this country as resulting from that cause. It was with sorrow that he felt obliged to state a fact which would, at first, seem hardly credible, but he could assure the House of its truth, and it resulted from the opinion which the peasantry of Ireland entertained of this country. They actually considered that the subscription which had kept so many thousands from starving during the last summer, was the result of fear, and not of benevolence. Before tranquillity could be expected to prevail in Ireland, it was necessary to strike terror into the lower orders. They must be made to know that the law was strong, and that they could not break through it. When this was done, measures of conciliation ought to be tried. In those mea-
 234
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, there were two propositions before the House—that for the continuation of the law, and the amendment. Besides these, there were the recommendations of his noble friend who spoke last but one. He would defend that noble lord from any personal imputation, in consequence of the proposal which he had made; but he could not accede to that proposal. He would not have the coercion, enforced by this act, either increased or diminished. He considered it under existing circumstances a necessary measure; but, at the same time, he regarded it only as a temporary one. He thought that martial law should not be introduced but under the most urgent circumstances; and he therefore deprecated all allusion to it. It was beneath the dignity of parliament to hold out threats which it did not mean to put in execution. It had been complained on the other side of the House, that government had resorted to measures of coercion for the last twenty years. He would appeal to every candid man, whether every measure which had been suggested for the relief of Ireland had not been attended to with the utmost anxiety. It had been alleged that partiality existed in the appointment of sheriffs. The first act of the administration with which he was connected, had been to assimilate it as much as possible with the practice of England. Similar measures had been taken with respect to grand juries, the powers of which were said to be abused. The illicit distilleries were, at another time, alleged to be the cause of some of the disturbances. This had been partly remedied by the consolidation of the exchequers, and would be still further relieved. He sincerely believed that most of the evils which at this moment disturbed Ireland sprang from the maladministration of the common law of the land. So highly did he think of that law, that he had no doubt if it were vigorously and impartially administered, there would be no necessity for recurring to other means. It was for this reason that he wished to see the magistrates aided by an active and responsible body of police. The deficiency of magistrates had also been alleged as one cause of the disorders. This, too, had received the attention of the government. The lists of the various counties had been made out, for the purpose of revising them, and this
 236 l. 237
 Mr. Becher,  if he could get nothing better, was bound to support the measure, bad as it was, as one of necessary pro-
 238
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  supported the original proposition, and defended the conduct of the different governments of Ireland, who, he contended, had used their best efforts to tranquillize that unfortunate country. He expressed his astonishment, after the manner in which that House and the people of England had commiserated and relieved the distresses of Ireland, to hear it asserted that Ireland had only known England in her coercive character. The misfortunes of Ireland were to be attributed, not to the conduct of those by whom she had been governed, but to moral causes, which no government could effectually control.
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that the facts stated by the hon. baronet would rather influence him to support the amendment. If poverty and distress were now more general throughout Ireland than ever, and if measures of severity similar to the present had been passed for the last twenty years without any success, what, he would ask, could be hoped for from the present motion? For the eighteen or nineteen years which he had sat in that House he had heard the same complaints, and the same measures of severity had been always proposed. These measures had been reprobated by every hon. member (with the exception of one), who now sat on the Treasury-bench. He had heard them reprobated by the attorney-general for Ireland, who had characterised them as the extinction of the constitution, and had affirmed that proscription and death were not fit engines of government. Why, he would ask, was the right hon. gentleman's present conduct inconsistent with his former sentiments? Within these six years he had deprecated measures similar to that proposed this night. Within that period he had maintained, that Catholic emancipation was the sweeping measure, the  sine qua non, 229
 Alderman C. Smith  could not see why the brewers should not be allowed to brew the new beer as well as table beer. He hoped the bill would not pass.
 Mr. Ricardo  observed, that the principle advocated by the hon. baronet might be applied to every foreign commodity. As the hon. baronet had discovered so easy a way of reducing the national debt, by throwing the burthen of taxation entirely on foreigners, he ought to become chancellor of the exchequer without delay; for he was afraid they had never yet found a chancellor of the exchequer who could impose taxes without inflicting serious burthens on the people.
 Mr. Ricardo  could see no reason why the tax should not be imposed on the malt. If that were done, individuals would be at liberty to brew what quality of beer they pleased. The hardship was very great on the poor man, who was obliged to purchase his beer at a high rate from the public brewer; whereas all those who possessed facilities for brewing were exempted from the burden.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he would put the case in this way: suppose an individual employed him as an agent, to dispose of goods, and that he was dishonestly inclined, and defrauded his principal; in that case, who ought to be the loser, the man who said, "I will not pay a single penny without the goods are delivered lo me;" or the man who did not make any inquiry, but lent his mono}' upon mere representations? It was not desirable that either party should lose; but one must suffer, and the sufferer ought to be the individual who did not use proper caution.
 Mr. Brougham  expressed his surprise and regret that no answer had been given to the question of his hon. friend. The House were guilty of a crying injustice to the poor, in thus continuing to make the labouring man pay 50 s. s.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that when he last proposed to the House the propriety of continuing the Insurrection Act, he had ventured to express a hope that it was a measure which was not likely to be again called for. He had ventured to make that statement, not upon his own authority, not upon any vague and uncertain accounts, but upon the reports of men best acquainted with the state of the country, and upon whose judgments he could most firmly rely. It was with sincere regret that he now felt it necessary to recommend a further continuance of the provisions of that act. From the returns before the House, it appeared that the disturbances, particularly in one district, continued to increase; that there was still manifested among the peasantry the same disposition to outrage, the same hostility to property, the same imposition of illegal oaths, the same general contempt of the laws of their country, and the same wish to substitute laws of their own. He lamented that, notwithstanding the liberal and laudable exertions of the people of this country to relieve the distressed peasantry of Ireland, and, notwithstanding the praiseworthy liberality of the Irish resident gentry in seconding the efforts of the British people, there still prevailed, in certain districts, a state of insubordination which imperiously called for the further continuance of this extraordinary power. He begged to be understood as not advocating this measure as one by which a country ought to be permanently governed. On the contrary, he considered it objectionable, taking it in the abstract, and only to be justified by the emergency of the case. The simple question then for parliament was, did a sufficient urgency exist to justify the continuance of this law? It was not his intention to go at length into a detail of the outrages which formed the justification of the measure; for these were developed in the papers which had been laid upon the table or the House. In these papers, the state of parts of Munster was described; and it was difficult for gentlemen to picture to themselves the condition of the resident gentry in the disturbed districts of Ireland, who were endeavouring to maintain themselves amid this state things
 219 220 221
 Mr. F. Buxton,  seeing the president of the Board of Trade in his place, begged to ask him a question or two upon a subject, in which the interests of a large and respectable portion of the inhabitants of this metropolis were involved. He understood it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to introduce a bill for the repeal of certain restrictions upon the silk manufacture. What he requested of the right hon. gentleman was, that he would first consent to the appointment of a committee of inquiry up stairs, or if he refused that, that he would not press the measure until after the holidays.
 Mr. J. Martin  could see no reason why the same rule should not apply to bills of exchange. He admitted, that persons advancing money had a right to know whether the property really belonged to the individual. But this information could not always be obtained; for he had known many cases where the most solemn assurance was given, that certain property belonged to particular individuals, when, in fact, such was not the case.
 Mr. Monck  condemned the system by which individuals sought to support a system which operated beneficially for themselves, but was injurious to the country in general. He hoped ministers would turn a deaf ear to petitions of this nature.
 Mr. Monck  said, that the bill, in its present state, inflicted injustice not only on the brewers, but on the public. He wished to see it modified.
 Mr. John Smith  rose to second the amendment. He said, he could not but express his surprise at the course which the right hon. Secretary had pursued. The right hon. gentleman had endeavoured to impress upon the House the necessity of suppressing the riots and outrages which now prevailed in Ireland. Those riots he admitted ought to be put down, but the right hon. gentleman had not said a word as to the cause of those disturbances. It was melancholy to reflect that, in looking to the history of Ireland during her long connexion with this country, he found that she was always discontented, always the prey of factions, and that the laws were constantly set at defiance. This was not the case in any other part of the united empire. It was not the case in Scotland. When that country was visited with almost a famine in 1817, there was no riot, no disturbance. That extraordinary people, as he must call them, had looked upon the calamity under which they were suffering as a dispensation of Providence. What was the cause of this difference between the two countries? It was this—in Scotland the people had the benefit of moral and religious instruction,
 224 l. l., 225 226
 Mr. J. Smith  presented a petition from the Merchants and Bankers of London, praying for an Alteration in the existing Law of Lien upon Goods sent on Foreign Ventures. He stated his intention of moving for a select committee to inquire into this subject.
 Mr. Hume  considered the principle laid down by the hon. baronet as extremely objectionable. The imposition of an ad-
 214
 Mr. Hume  said, that a capital of upwards of one million was embarked in the trade in question, and therefore it required more consideration than was intended to be given to it. He maintained, that a sum of 250,000 l.
 Mr. R. Colborne  thought that the bill had been introduced more with a view to benefit the public than to increase the revenue.
 Mr. P. Moore  said, he had uniformly opposed this bill, and must continue to do so. With all the exertions of all the governments of Ireland, that country was now in a ten times worse state than ever. Instead of passing this act, he would rather throw the marquis Wellesley upon his own resources, by giving him a discretionary power to act as he thought fit.
 Mr. Spring Rice  contended, in opposition to the assertions of the right hon. gentleman, that, dividing the interval since the Union into two periods, the latter commencing with the administration of the marquis Wellesley, there had not been, in the former period, any thing done by the government, worth mentioning, for the tranquillization of Ireland. It was not by Insurrection acts that that desirable object was to be secured. Something must be done in the south of Ireland to give increased means of employment to the people, or they must be enabled to emigrate to seek employment elsewhere. The increase of local taxation was an evil of great magnitude. It was hardly credible, that, within the last ten years, the local taxation of the city of Dublin had increased from 2,400 l. l.
 Mr. Denison  rose to present a petition on a subject which deeply interested the middle classes of society. The petition came from the Table Beer and Ale Brewers of London, a most respectable body, who had embarked millions in the trade. As the law now stood, the brewer paid an excise duty of 2 s. s. s. s. 215 l. l.,
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that the law, of which this petition sought an alteration, had prevailed ever since the merchant law had been a part of the English code. It did not permit factors to pay their own debts with the produce of goods confided to them by employers in other countries. The learned gentleman proceeded to argue, that this law had been borrowed from the maxims of the civil law, which prevailed all over the continent, and that therefore, as it corresponded with the regulations abroad, there could be no reason for altering it as regarded commercial convenience, and Still less on the score of honesty and good policy. Nothing could be more just than that factors should be restricted from exceeding the authority of their principals, and nothing more likely to prevent frauds. He must object to any alteration in the present law.
 Mr. Scarlett  observed, that many merchants received large quantities of goods from foreign consignors, and was it fitting that they should be met by the exclamation, when they sustained a loss—"Oh, you should have taken due caution before you advanced money;" while no such caution was required from a London banker.
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, he was perfectly sensible of the kind motives by which the hon. member who spoke last was actuated, but when rebellion was at the door was not the proper time to talk of conciliation. It was the duty of the house to arrest the evil, before it went further. Within the last fortnight, a number of armed men, amounting to at least a hundred, headed by a person of a better description, had appeared within four miles of Cork, and, though pursued immediately by the military, there had been no detection. It was evident that the ordinary course of law was not sufficient: 180 persons had been discharged at the assizes for want of evidence. From eighty to one hundred burnings had taken place, and there had been but one conviction. If the Insurrection act had been enforced with firmness, Ireland would not be in its present state. The Irish government had shown a culpable lenity towards the disaffected, and had thereby paralyzed the efforts of its servants. The people, instead of feeling gratitude for that lenity, mistook it for a manifestation of fear. He referred the House to the representations made by the grand juries, to show how extensive and systematic was the plan upon which
 228
 Sir J. Newport  agreed, that his right hon. friend had no wish to curtail the necessary powers of the government; but the question was, whether the powers now demanded were necessary? In 1803, the Habeas Corpus act had been suspended; and martial law had been introduced. The same had been repeated in the following year, and an hon. friend (Mr. Elliott) had then implored the House to observe carefully what they did; another hon. member had observed that the minister stopped the constitution with as little ceremony and as little regard for the current of public opinion, as a miller would stop his wheel. Had not this been true? He had then asked, as he did now, whether such measures were necessary for the safety of Ireland? And, in putting that question, he had been supported by Mr. Windham, Mr. Fox, and a noble duke then a member of that House, and he was answered with—"Grant us the power; trust to us for the fair and proper use of it." In 1810, the Insurrection act was renewed, and on all occasions they had been referred to to-morrow and to-morrow; which to-morrow, he was sorry to say, never arrived. In each successive case, the language of ministers at the time they asked for those extraordinary powers had been this:—"Put down the disturbances, and then inquire into the causes from which they originated;" and afterwards, when they had quelled the disturbances for a time, and were reminded of their promises about inquiry, the answer had been "The disturbances are now happily over—why should we agitate the country by inquiring into the cause of that which at present has fortunately no existence?" Against such conduct he had been remonstrating for the last twenty years, and he would repeat what he had often said before, that they would never succeed in tranquillizing
 233
 Lord Althorp  said, he could not remain silent consistently with his feelings of public duty. Year after year measures of severity had been introduced, yet, so far was the tranquillity of Ireland from being restored, that her disturbances had been increased, and her misfortunes aggravated. It was the duty of the House, with the experience they had had since the Union, to look more deeply into the state of Ireland, and to take other and different measures to cure her disorders. He confessed he felt disappointed at the speech of the right hon. gentleman. He thought the right hon. gentleman would have entered more at large into the question, particularly after the expectation held out, that the situation of Ireland would be discussed. Measures of coercion had failed. It was therefore the duty of the House to adopt towards Ireland acts of justice, of encouragement, and of conciliation. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the present was not the time for discussion. Was there not time, at all events, between this and the first of August? Could nothing be done during that time, to ascertain the real causes of the deplorable state of things in Ireland?
 222 223
 Lord Milton  rose, for the purpose of cautioning the House, and particularly the gentlemen of this country, not to listen too eagerly to such representations as those which had been made by the noble lord; and which really appeared to have been made for the express purpose of hallooing on the government to acts of tyranny against the people. The noble lord must forgive him if he said, that the speech he had just made was another inducement to him to disbelieve the representations of the magistrates of Ireland. He was himself not unacquainted with Ireland. The barony with which he was more particularly connected Was not at all disturbed; and yet the magistrates had thought fit to put in force the constabulary act, and had accompanied it with a declaration that the barony was in a state of tranquillity, but they had taken this step for purposes of precaution. He did not look upon the emancipation of the Catholics as the panacea for all the evils which afflicted Ireland. He wished to see this notion, which was a delusive one, dispelled. Those evils arose from the ignorance of the population. He would intreat the House to compare the state of education in the North with that in the South. They would find that the state of tranquillity very much corresponded. They ought to devise some means of educating the lower orders; for until the barbarity which was the result of this ignorance was removed, they might rule Ireland by terror, but they would never produce tranquillity. The noble lord had said a good deal about the spirit of the lower orders in Ireland; but he had omitted to state that for which they were proverbial—the kindness of their hearts. The fact was, that they were a people to be governed by love, and not by fear. The tranquillity of that country was to be secured by inspiring confidence between the different classes
 235
 Lord Milton  said, if the additional duty did not fall on the consumer, it was quite clear that the alteration would be of no use to the butchers of Leadenhall-market.
 Sir J. Sebright  presented a petition from sir J. Sinclair, praying that the duties on foreign wool might not be repealed. He stated, that the petitioner felt convinced that if he could have an opportunity of exhibiting to the House the fine cloths which he had caused to be manufactured from English wool, it would go a great way towards convincing them how needless the importation of foreign wool was. It had been proposed to him to bring down a piece of cloth with the petition, and to cause it to be laid upon the table, for the inspection of members. To this he had replied, that the proposition was not a regular one. But there was another course, to which there could be no objection, and that was, for the petition to present him with a coat of the nest cloth made from English wool, in which' costume he would appear before the House on presenting the petition. The proposition being, acceded to, he was enabled to appear before them, as they now beheld him, and he trusted in no very discreditable condition. He begged leave to bring up the petition; and when he had committed it to the care of the House, he should wait a reasonable time in the lobby, to give those gentlemen who wished to satisfy, themselves upon the subject, an opportunity for examination.
 Captain Gordon  reprobated the bringing of charges forward against officers, who were not present to defend themselves.
 Mr. Bright  thought it possible that all the charges might not be proved; but he knew enough of the colony to induce him to support inquiry. He would not ask, whether this or that officer had acted improperly, but whether the system: wag liable to abuse? Of the state of the colony very little was known in this country. I Further information ought, therefore, to be afforded. He would banish, the names of all the parties from this motion, and would ask, not who had committed wrong, but what wrong had been committed? He hoped the hon. member for Aberdeen I would not allow the bill to pass, without I again bringing forward the question of inquiry.
 Mr. Butterworth  supported the motion.
 Mr. Hume , in pursuance of his notice, rose to call the attention of the House to the State of the Colony of Newfoundland. The subject was one of very considerable importance, and lie hoped to be able to convince the House of the necessity of giving immediate attention to it. His object was to obtain a committee to inquire into the present state of the revenues, fisheries and laws of that island, which had been much neglected of late. A bill had been passed (49 Geo. 3, c. 26) for the establishment of a supreme court of justice, and, as far as the enactments had been carried into effect, had been productive of good; but its jurisdiction and benefits were limited, and the anomalous system of surrogate courts was allowed to continue in the other parts of the colony, although the inhabitants had memorialized the government, and peti-
 246 247 248 249 l. s. l. l. l. 250 outfish 251 l., 252
 Mr. Hume , in reply, maintained that nothing be had advanced had been answered: and asked, whether an, inquiry was to be refused where the interests of, more than 800,000 subjects were concerned?
 255
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that although he entertained the highest respect for the character of sir Charles Hamilton, he would nevertheless give his vote in favour of the present motion. He must confess, that, in the whole course of his parliamentary experience, he had never known a case that called more strongly for a committee. Every fact stated by the hon. member for Aberdeen had been admitted. And how had he been answered? Why, the hon. secretary, in substance, had said, "Oh, I know that the grievances you mention exist, but trust to me for the remedy." Trust to the hon. secretary, who had not long filled his present office, and who, in the course of the next session intended to produce a bill for removing the evils that now oppressed the island He was not totally ignorant of the state of Newfoundland. He had been the representative for Poole in three parliaments, and in that character had become acquainted with many circumstances illustrative of the state of the island, its government, and resources. Its inhabitants had once been nearly reduced to starvation; and the present lord Bexley, then chancellor of the exchequer, had been obliged to send them food for their support. As to the "administration of justice, be knew that, in many instances, midshipmen of seventeen years of age had been appointed surrogates. The hon. secretary had asked, why the hon. member for Aberdeen did not make a motion for papers on every one of the grounds of complaint? Now, really, the hon. member had made a sufficient number of motions;
 254
 Mr. Wilmot  declared his intention of opposing the motion for a committee, because the reasons on which the hon. I member for Aberdeen had proposed it were incorrect in point of fact. With regard to the surrogate courts, he had himself brought in a bill to amend their constitution, and had stated in bringing it in, that it was his intention at a future stage of it, to propose a clause to extend the jurisdiction of the supreme court, and only to use the surrogate courts at those places which were at a distance from the town in which it held its sittings. The hon. member for Aberdeen had said, that Newfoundland had as good a claim to a separate civil government as Prince Edward's Island. In that argument he did not think the hon. member had been very fortunate; for he believed that at present the inhabitants of Prince Edward's Island, were desirous of being released from the shackles of a local legislature. Besides, there were circumstances in Newfoundland to prevent such a legislature from being established. There were no roads in the island; and, in winter, there was no communication with the capital except by sea, which was not at all times free from danger. In summer, all persons of property on the island—and those were the individuals out of which the local legislature, if it ever existed, must be selected—were busily engaged in carrying on the fishery.—The hon. gentleman proceeded generally to contend, that in no view had a case been made out for a committee. With respect to the hon. member's specific charges of abuse, if they had been put into a tangible shape, he (Mr. W.) might have been prepared to answer them. As for the fees complained of in the sheriff's court, there was a regular table of them. Why had not the hon. member made a motion for papers? The fishery treaties might, or might not, be objectionable; but if they were faulty, a committee was not the course to set them right. The hon. member complained, and
 253
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the House would have to decide whether the intended bill was likely to be beneficial or otherwise to the island. To enable them to do this, every possible information ought to be laid before them.
 Mr. Marryat  doubted the expediency of altering the law on this subject. A great deal had been said about the situation of merchants and factors, but the truth was, that neither merchants nor factors were materially interested in the question. Those who stirred in this matter were the brokers, who were in the habit of advancing large sums of money on goods, without inquiring of those from whom they obtained them, whether they were their own property or not. By such practices they sometimes made great gains, but being exposed to occasional losses, they came to parliament to ask that they might be screened from the effects of their own imprudence by an alteration in the law of the land. He contended, that the evils under the law might be easily obviated.
 Mr. Baring  presented a petition from the agents of the West India colonies against any interference with the existing laws respecting Slavery. The hon. member said, he would not then express any opinion upon the question which was to be discussed that evening; but he could not refrain from observing, that it was one of the greatest importance, and involved the security of property to an immense amount, belonging to subjects of this country, as well as the lives and means of subsistence of all the West India colonists. The petitioners had no objection to the amelioration of the condition of the slaves. Indeed, they considered that amelioration as essential to the welfare of both parties; but it was another question, whether property, which had been acquired under the sanction of that House, should be taken away. If that property was to be said to be stamped with the character of immorality and injustice, he should be glad to know what improved morality and justice there was in the arbitrary deprivation of property, the acquisition of which the laws had allowed? He had always been a
 256
 Mr. Robertson  was opposed to the measure, and deprecated the intention of giving the consignee the power of making immediate money of the goods of the consignor under certain circumstances.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said:—Sir, the appeal to his majesty's ministers wish which the hon. gentleman concluded his speech, makes me feel it my duty to address myself to the House at this early I period of the debate, for the purpose of stating, without reserve, the opinions entertained by myself and my colleagues with respect to this most important, and I must say, at the same time (notwithstanding what has fallen from the hon. gentleman), this most fearful question.—I never in my life proceeded to the discussion of any question under a stronger impression of its manifold difficulties: not indeed in reference to the principles on which my opinions are grounded, nor with respect to the practical conclusion to which I may think it expedient to come; but on account of the dangers, which, even after all that the hon. gentleman has said to the contrary, appear to mc to attend a discussion, in which one rash word, perhaps even one too ardent expression, might raise a flame not easily to be extinguished. 276 juxta 277 278 279 Non meus hic sermo: 280 bellum servile 281 282 283 284 venditioni exponas 285 
 1st. "That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive measures for ame-
 286 2nd. "That, through a determined and persevering, but at the same time judicious and temperate, enforcement of such measures, this House looks forward to a progressive improvement in the character of the slave population, such as may prepare them for a participation in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his majesty's subjects. 3rd. "That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose, at the earliest period that shall be compatible with the well-being of the slaves themselves, with the safety of the colonies, and with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private property." 287
 Mr. Marryat  said:—It is far from my wish, Sir, to detain the House; but I am anxious to correct a mistake into which the hon. member opposite has fallen. I understood the hon. member for Hull to say, that the evidence of negro slaves is wholly excluded from courts of justice in the West Indies. Now, I feel it my duty to set him and the House right upon this point. In how many other islands the testimony of slaves is admitted I know not; but this I well know, that no longer ago than 1818, a law passed in the island of Dominica, making the evidence of slaves admissible; and I am happy to state further, that this law has been taken into consideration by the committee of West-India planters and merchants in this metropolis; and they having found that no
 321 322 Tobago. 323 324 325 326
 Mr. Bernal  said:—I had thought, Sir, at the commencement of this debate, that to all appearance, we were advancing to-
 339 340 341 l. de homine replegiando 342
 Mr. Baring  said:—Having, Sir, been alluded to by my hon. friend who opened the debate, I cannot avoid stating to the House how strongly I feel the necessity of something being done, and something considerable, on the present question. I feel that it is one of the greatest possible importance and delicacy; but I fear that hon. gentlemen around me, whose feelings I respect, have been led away by the ardour and fervency of those feelings to exaggerate the real facts, and to underrate the many difficulties and dangers which must accompany any alteration in the present system. I am anxious to state
 343 344 345 346 347 348 349
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  said, he could not allow the motion to pass without returning his thanks to the hon. member who had brought it forward.
 Mr. C. Ellis  said:—Sir there is something is a scenting in the peculiar cha-
 296 297 298 they 299 300 301 * * 302 venditioni exponas venditioni exponas 303 l. . l. l. 304 stimulant 305 306 ad invidiam per se 307 villeinage
 Mr. Ellis. —My observations were directed against the policy and consequences of interference.
 Mr. Sykes  thought that some alteration in the present law was absolutely necessary, as he had known instances in which the grossest frauds had been committed with impunity.
 Mr. Sykes  said, I am most happy to hear the statements of the right. hon. member opposite (sir G. Rose), with respect to the amelioration of the condition of the slaves in the West Indies; but I confess I should have received still greater satisfaction if the right hon. gentleman had been more explicit as to the mode, time, and manner, in which the future emancipation of the slaves is to be attained In this respect the House is as yet left in almost total darkness. It was my intention to have taken a fuller share in to-night's debate, and to have entered largely into, a subject, in my view, more interesting than any that has engaged the
 319 320
 Mr. Canning. —I wish to make myself intelligible to the hon. gentleman and the House. If I am asked, whether I can maintain the proposition that the progeny of slaves must be eternally slaves—the hon. gentleman must feel that I am not at liberty to throw out a hasty opinion upon that, I readily admit, most important question; but my opinion certainly is, that the time must come when that object must be attained. I cannot now, however, state a distinct opinion further than this, that the progeny of slaves must not be eternally slaves.
 Mr. Canning —I say I abjure the principle of perpetual slavery; but I am not prepared now to state in what way I would set about the accomplishment of the object. I abjure the principle, but I am not now prepared to give my opinion upon the question, because my mind is not yet made up, and I am unwilling to say any thing to night which may reduce me hereafter to the necessity of qualifying any statement I may make.
 Mr. Bright  said:—But for the turn the debate has taken, it was my intention to have gone at full length into the subject; but after what has already passed, I shall not occupy the House for many minutes. It cannot be denied that the question is of the highest importance to the interests of a large class of his majesty's subjects; I mean the West-India planters; who, think, have to complain of a good deal of unmerited obloquy thrown upon them out of doors. I believe that the conduct of the planters has been much misrepresented; that justice has not been done them generally in this country; and I believe that they have been occupied as actively as was possible, under the circumstances, in ameliorating the condition of their slaves. I believe, that by numerous authorities this could be shown to be the fact; but I will not enter into that subject at the present moment. The West Indians have a just right to complain that their remonstrances and representations have not been duly attended to at home, and that many mis-statements have gone abroad as to the actual condition of things in the colonies. Some individuals who have been instrumental in putting forth these mis-statements ought to have been better informed. I will read a passage from a publication upon this subject, winch, as I contend, is wholly unfounded; because I will afterwards submit to the House a direct contradiction of it. [The hon. gentleman here read a quotation from a tract in his hand, stating that the fines upon manumission had been nearly doubled.] l. l s. l. l. l. 317 l. l. l. s. 318
 Mr. Brougham  said:—Sir, I am quite sensible that at this late hour of the night it would be unbecoming in me—it would be acting in contradiction to the general sense of the House—were I either to go into much detail on this important question, or to resist the adoption of the amendment proposed by the right hon. gentleman opposite. But, I confess, I
 327 328 329 330 331 332 333 my 334 335 336 337 villenage in gross villenage regardant villeins in gross. 338
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose, and addressed the House nearly as follows:— *From the report published by the Society for the Mitigation and gradual I Abolition of Slavery. 258 259 260 261 262 
 "1st, A boy, about fifteen years of age: a large iron chain round his neck, fastened with a padlock, total weighing 22 lbs. "2d. Two girls, of twelve years of age, much marked by the effects of the cart-whip; fastened together with iron chains round their necks, padlocked, weighing 18 lbs. 3d, A full grown man, after a severe flogging with the cart-whip, loaded with an iron collar and chains, weighing 21 lbs. "4th, An old man, apparently sixty years of age, after having been severely beaten by his master, was placed in the stocks, with an iron collar round his neck, and chains, weighing 20 lbs. "5th, A boy, about twelve years of age, loaded with an iron collar, chains, and log of wood, weighing 26 lbs." 263 264 265 266 267 268 ipso facto 269 270 271 you they 272 primâ facie onus probandi He stole him 273 
 "1. That the slave should be attached to the island, and, under modifications, to the soil. "2. That they cease to be chattels in the eye of the law. "3. That their testimony may be received,  quantum valeat. "4. That when any" one lays in his claim to the services of a negro, the  onus probandi "5. That all obstructions to manumissions should be removed. "6. That the provisions of the Spanish law (fixing by competent authority the value of the slave, and allowing him to purchase a day at a time,) should be introduced. "7. That no governor, judge, or attorney-general should be a slave-owner. "8. That an effectual provision shall be made for the religious instruction of the slave. "9. That marriage should be enforced and sanctioned. "10. That the Sunday should be devoted by the slave to repose and religious instruction; and that other time should be allotted for the cultivation of his provision-grounds. "11. That some (but what I cannot say) measures should be taken, to restrain the authority of the master in punishing his untried slave, and that some substitute should be found for the driving system. 274 275
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  replied as follows:—I had made up my mind, Sir, not to trouble the House with a single observation in reply. I had already trespassed long on your attention; and I was abundantly contented to rest the defence of the statements with which I opened the business, on the powerful speeches of my hon. friends. In this determination I should have persevered, had it not been for the speech of the hon. gentleman who spoke last but one (Mr. Baring). That gentleman has charged me with inconsistency—he has accused me of using one sort of language on this question, and another upon subjects where my own interests are concerned. He tells us, that I was sufficiently mindful of the rights of private property, when that property was my own; but that I never even whispered a syllable about
 352 353 354 355 356 357 358 359 venditioni exponas
 Mr. F. Buxton. —I am fully satisfied with the answer the right hon. gentleman has been kind enough to give to my questions, and I feel obliged to him for the very candid and decisive manner in which he has expressed himself. I now beg leave to withdraw my motion; but I wish it to be distinctly understood, that, in case a difference of opinion arises between the government and myself, I shall reserve to myself the liberty of bringing the matter forward on a future occasion. nem. con.
 Mr. F. Buxton  said—Then I am to understand that the day will arrive after which every negro child born shall be free. That being settled, my next question is, when will that day arrive?
 Mr. J. Smith  moved for a committee, "to inquire into the state of the Law relating to Goods, Waves, and Merchandize, intrusted to Merchants, Agents, or Factors, and the effect of the Law upon the Interests of Commerce, and to report the result of that inquiry with their opinion thereon, to the House."
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that all he wished
 257
 Mr. William Smith. —I understood him to protest, or to say what nearly amounted to a protest, against any interference on the part of the legislature here on behalf of the slaves. If I was mistaken, I am glad of it; and I would rather take his interpretation of his own words, than attempt to put my own sense upon them. But if we are to be threatened with consequences, and to be talked to of the impolicy of interference on the part of the British parliament, if the proceedings of the colonists should be too dilatory and inefficient to meet the just expectations of this country, and if we are to forbear because we are so threatened, I fear that the conclusion of our undertaking for the benefit of the negroes is by no means so near as we could desire. Daring the first period of our labours, we know from the hon. gentleman himself, that they did not satisfy his own expectations; and, during the latter period, we are equally sure that they did not satisfy ours. What better ground of confidence do we now possess? I must indeed think that, after all we have seen upon this subject, after all the experience we have had during a long series of years, We are entitled to demand some greater security than the right hon. gentleman, in his resolutions, has given us. 311 312
 Mr. William Smith  said:—Not withstanding there may have been something objectionable in the tone and manner of the hon. gentleman who has just sat down, I have on this account nothing to retort, but I am ready to give him all imaginable credit for the sentiments he has himself declared, and on which, I hope, he has consulted the opinions of a large number of persons, who in a resistance to a proposition of this nature would be extremely ready to join him. In many of the facts he has stated, and in much of the reasoning he has advanced, I am much disposed to agree, and in nothing more than what was insisted upon so strongly by my hon. friend who began this debate, that this, the first, and every other step towards emancipation must be gradual. But still there is this great distinction between us, more material than I wish it were, that while I admit, on the one hand, that the emancipation of the negroes must be gradual, I think at the same time it is absolutely necessary, that it should be rendered certain. It is upon the uncertainty of what has been proposed to us this night by the right honourable gentleman on the other side, that I feel myself most dissatisfied. The hon. gentleman who spoke last has referred to a measure taken by himself, or at his suggestion, many years ago, which unquestionably did him great honour at the time: he has acknowledged, that, because the execution of his proposition was left to the legislatures of the West-Indies, it did not effect all the good he had intended towards the negroes. Now, on this particular point, I must beg leave to call the attention of the House, and of the right hon. gentleman, to a circumstance which he may have forgotten. On the 19th June, 1816, an hon. relative of the hon. gentleman on the other side proposed a resolution, from the conclusion of which I will read the following words: "And that his royal highness will be pleased to recommend, in the strongest manner, to the local authorities in the respective colonies, to carry into effect every measure, to the local and to promote the moral and religious improvement as well as the comfort and happiness of the negroes. Here, then, we get into this dilemma either the colonial assemblies have carried those ameliorating measures into effect, or they have not; if they have not, may arose from one of two causes—either that the have one of two causes—either that the parties were inattentive to the recomendaiton
 309 sine qua non 310
 Mr. Wilberforce  rose and said:—Before, Sir, I enter into any discussion of the question before the House, I think it necessary to say a few words in vindication of the line pursued by my hon. friend near me (Mr. F. Buxton) on the present occasion; more particularly with reference to the proposition with which my hon. friend commenced his speech. My hon. friend addressed himself to a British parliament, and fully, fairly, and candidly, told, the House what were his real intentions in submitting his motion to its consideration—a gradual but total extinction of slavery in the colonies of this country. With powerful eloguence and the justest
 288 289 290 291 292 293 294 295
 Sir George Rose  said, that although the turn the debate had taken induced him to address himself to the House far more briefly than he had originally intended, there still were considerations which he deemed it indispensable to lay before it. These arose from the altered state of Christianity amongst the slave population of the British West-India settlements, which, whilst it is by no means such as it undoubtedly ought to be, is yet not so hopeless as it has been represented, and by no mean authorities. Even the University of Cambridge; with its petition, has declared, in speaking of the negroes, that "religious Instruction is nearly altogether precluded"—a Statement in no wise warranted by the case. He begged the House, however, to believe, that very far from considering the progress made, as that which ought to satisfy those interested in that highly important matter, he looked upon it but as the earnest of what remained to be done by the West-Indian proprietors, and as the proof of what may be effected. Being by inheritance one of these proprietors, he had, from the moment of becoming such, felt the immensity of the responsibility which devolved upon him as charged with the spiritual welfare of the negroes on the property in question; the small extent of it being of course no measure of that responsibility; and he was led to state circumstances which had occurred to himself, as testifying powerfully to the beneficent effects of religious instruction, both to the slaves themselves, and to their owners. Inheriting a small landed property in one of the lesser islands, he at once ascertained that, both from local circumstances, and from the duties of the parochial clergy to their white and coloured flocks, and from their being too highly educated for the missionary task among human beings so utterly ignorant, narrow-minded, and thoughtless, as the unconverted negroes are, he could not obtain spiritual aid for them from the clergy of the church of England. He then solicited it of the Moravian brethren; doing so with the concurrence of respectable persons in the island, whose co-operation he was most
 313 314 315 l. l. l.
 Lord Althorp  said:—I am anxious to address one or two observations to the House upon this important question. I certainly think that the planters of the West Indies have a fair claim upon this House for compensation in the event of the adoption of the plans proposed by the hon. mover. With reference to what has fallen from my hon. friend who spoke last, relative to the cultivation of the colonies by free labour, I differ from him, in supposing that the conversion of the slaves into freemen would be such an immense loss to this country. I; however, look at this
 350 351
 Mr. Secretary Canning  observed, that if, by what the hon. gentleman had said, he meant to affirm this proposition, that when a member of the House of Commons made a charge against an individual, which charge was afterwards made good, he was at liberty to abandon it, and that it must then be taken up by the executive government, he asserted that which was neither parliamentary in practice nor in principle. He had never heard, when Mr. Burke had made his charge against Warren Hastings, that he had brought it to throw the ulterior proceedings on the executive government. He had never heard it argued, when Mr. Whitbread succeeded in his charge against lord Melville, that he had done all which he had a right to do, and that it was for his majesty's ministers to follow up the proceedings. If the case before the House was that of a removable officer, then he perfectly admitted that, as members of the executive government, not as members of the House of Commons, ministers would be bound to deal with that removable officer. But certainly it was not for them to proceed with charges which honourable members had originated, and pushed to a certain extent. There were two ways of proceeding in cases like the present—by an address of that House, or by impeachment; and he thought that either mode was better in any other hands than in those of ministers. He would tell the hon. member, therefore, distinctly, that in this case he certainly would not move a step; and he would advise none of his hon. colleagues to do so. If the hon. member would not come forward, he must reconcile himself to the circumstance in the best manner he could.
 Mr. Wynn  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the Report of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the Conduct of the Chief Baron of the Irish Exchequer.
 Mr. Wynn  said, there was not a single instance in which the executive government as such, had been called on to originate criminal proceedings. No case
 362
 Mr. Secretary Canning  positively denied this. He declared, upon his honour, that he knew nothing of the individual, or of the facts of the case; and he also declared upon his honour, that if the hon. accuser determined to proceed, he would diligently attend and give the inquiry a fair and impartial hearing. But he could not
 363 onus
 Mr. Wynn  called on the hon. member for Limerick to say, whether he had shrunk from his duty in the committee, or had evinced any unfair or improper bias. The learned member for Calne would have known this if he had not absented himself from the committee: any accusation of neglect of duty came with a very bad grace from that learned gentleman.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that he understood the hon. member for Limerick entertained doubts himself of the pro-
 364
 Mr. R. Smith  entertained a notion, that there might be a mode of obtaining the ends of justice in this case by another form of proceeding. The chief baron of the Exchequer, like all the other judges, held his office,  quamdiu se bene gesserit se male gesserit. scire facias 365 scire facias
 Dr. Lushington  maintained, that if any judge or other officer were proved guilty of peculation and abuse, and his majesty's government had the means of bringing him to justice, they ought to do so. He could not make up his mind, however, to say that government ought to originate a proceeding in parliament; because, undoubtedly, that would be calculated to produce a bias on the minds of honourable members. With respect to the affair under present consideration, it was evident that it could not rest where it was. Under all the circumstances of the case, he thought it the duty of his hon. friend to bring the subject under discussion, and to leave the House to dispose of it at their own discretion; When it was considered what must be the general feeling, when an officer of so high a rank as the chief baron of the Exchequer had a suspicion thrown on his character and how injurious such a state of things must be to
 366
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  said, he was anxious to take the earliest opportunity of recording his opinions upon this question, which, looking to the interests concerned in it, yielded not in importance to any which had been discussed within the walls of that House. He wished, before the House went into a committee, to point out the view which he took of the measure, and the consequences which were likely to result from the proposed alteration. It was admitted, on all hands, that in every proposal for; a commutation of tithes, it was held that the clergyman was strictly entitled to a fair equivalent. Now, he contended, that the proposed bill would have the effect of aggravating the evils which existed in Ireland. It would not relieve the distresses of the people, but would, on the contrary, augment the revenues of the clergy; It would give the clergy a right to claim an equivalent—not for what they now enjoyed, for to that he should not object—but an equivalent for tithes which had never been enforced, and which, if they ever existed, had lain dormant for a great length of time. The bill contained one clause of so objectionable a nature, that he considered it necessary to call the attention of the House particularly to it. In page 13, it was enacted, "That it shall be lawful for any umpire so to be appointed as aforesaid, and such umpire is hereby authorized and required to ascertain and fix the amount of the yearly sum of money to be paid as a composition for and in satisfaction of all tithes payable in such parish," &c &c. 367
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that his right hon. friend (Mr. V. Fitzgerald) and his hon. and learned friend who spoke last agreed in nothing but in their desire that the bill should he withdrawn for the present session. He must, however, protest against the postponement of the measure, because he was satisfied that no additional information could be obtained thereby. The argument of his hon. and learned friend went to prove, that no commutation could be effected without danger under, the auspices of the government, and yet his hon. and learned friend had declared, that he should have no objection to a commutation of potatoe tithe. With regard to the compulsory clause, it was not necessarily connected with the bill, and if the House should hereafter be of opinion that it ought to be omitted, the remaining parts of the bill might still be beneficially carried into effect.—The right hon. gentleman entered into a variety of details with, regard to the mode of collecting tithe, in various parishes in Ireland, with a view of showing the practicability of an amicable adjustment between the clergy and their parishioners. He approved of the plan of appointing parochial commissioners; for it was impossible that the government could efficiently discharge the duties which would devolve upon the commissioners, from a want of local knowledge, and their limited acquaintance with parochial details. If this measure should not produce universal harmony and conciliation, much substantial good would, he believed, be effected by it. He therefore gave his cordial support to the motion for going into the committee.
 Colonel Barry  objected to the compulsory clause, but approved of the general principle of the bill, which he thought would be highly beneficial to the interests of the Irish clergy.
 Mr. Wetherell  entertained doubts, whether the act of the late king respecting the judges, did not virtually repeal all previous powers which the Crown might have possessed over judicial offices. With respect to the call upon government to institute an impeachment, he thought it most unconstitutional. He was glad that the right hon. secretary had discountenanced it; for if there was any case in which the House ought to be considered as dispersed into individuality, it was that of impeachment, where every member had the right to exercise his judgment firmly and singly. He meant to pronounce no opinion upon the merits of this case.
 Mr. Wetherell  objected to the principle of the bill, because it deprived the clergy of their character of freeholders, and gave them a character of pensioners on the state, levying their pensions by a machinery something like that of the poor-rates in England. It remained to be proved, that the evil was so large and comprehensive that they should cut up by the roots all the sacred principles on which property, civil and clerical, was founded. The proposition in the bill was entirely new; as Mr. Pitt, who contemplated the commutation of tithes, never intended to deprive the clergyman of his territorial character; but proposed to give him land instead of tithe. It was an objection to this bill also, that while it professed to be a measure of conciliation, it forced the parties,  nolens volens in vinculis brutum fulmen vestigia nulla retrorsum in rem primum mobile; summum jus bonus in solido 375
 Colonel Trench  said, the great difficulty lay in this, that the tithe was chiefly payable by Papists to Protestants. He had great hopes of the hill, which he trusted would come out of the committee more perfect than it was at present.
 Mr. Canning  begged to repeat, that all which he had said went upon the assumption, that a parliamentary impeachment was expected on the part of the government. With respect to the process by a writ of  scire facias
 Mr. Canning  disclaimed being a favourer of this proceeding. He felt neither favour, affection, nor partiality of any kind respecting it.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was with feelings of deep regret that he found himself opposed upon this subject to his right hon. friend; but when he heard him declare, that in his opinion this bill was unjust in its principle, that it would be oppressive in its operation, and that it would augment, instead of diminishing the discontents and disturbances which now prevailed in Ireland, however he might regret a difference on any point with his right hon. friend, yet he had too great a regard for the honour and character of his right hon. friend, to entertain a wish or an expectation that, viewing the subject in this light, he should permit any considerations of personal regard to himself to prevent him from stating his sentiments to that House, with all the power and authority which belonged to his statements. On the other hand, he was sure that, however unfavourably his right hon. friend might think of this bill, he would do him (Mr. G.) the justice to believe, that nothing but a sincere conviction that it was calculated to remove at least a part of the evils complained of, and to produce a beneficial effect in Ireland could have induced him to propose it to the House. During the period that he had filled the office of chief secretary, he had often been called upon to state the opinions and views of the government with respect to a commutation of tithes. He had for some time forborne to answer these calls, or to indulge any expression of opinion favourable to such a measure, because he did not think it consistent with his duty, though it might have been easy and popular, to raise an expectation which he might not have the means of gratifying. Enough had fallen from his right hon. friend, to shew that, if the Irish government were disposed to court popularity, if they were willing to consult their own ease at the expense of what they considered their duty, they might at once accomplish their objects, by abandoning that part of the bill which it now seemed was objectionable both to the country gentlemen and to the clergy of Ireland. To himself no course could be more agreeable than that which should save him from the attacks with which he was menaced from both of these parties, and should also relieve him from a more immediate evil, the opposition of his right hon. friend. But, in the conduct of this measure, and of all other measures that had been confided to him, involving great
 369 370 371 372 373 374
 Mr. Abercromby  thought, that if the compulsory clause were struck out, all the evils which the bill was intended to remedy would be left in full activity. If that clause therefore were rejected, he could not give his support to the bill.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he had cast no reflection on the right hon. president of the Board of Control. What he had said he had used as a general argument. He had, however, heard one thing which he did not expect; namely, that the right hon. secretary was a favourer of this proceeding, provided it was in the hands of an individual.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that in this case a commission had emanated from the Crown, which had for its object to protect the administration of justice. That commission had discovered certain things which had a direct tendency to pervert justice, in the proceedings of a learned judge. Charges had been exhibited against him, and those charges had been affirmed by two different committees. The question then was, by whom were the further proceedings to be carried on? The right hon. president of the Board of Control said, "If this business is taken up by government, it will be viewed by the gentlemen on the other side of the House as a party question." Now, that was his (Mr. A.'s) case. He thought it unfair, that the individual accused should be supported by the weight of government, and that only the opposition should be left to oppose him; because, although the right hon. secretary had stated that government would take no part in the business, yet every man's experience must tell him, that even when such a declaration was made, the influence of government was likely to operate against a particular party.
 Mr. Hume  was astonished at the doctrine of the right hon. secretary, that government ought never to be called upon to proceed against individuals charged with crime. Suppose a judge were reported by a commission to have acted corruptly, and suppose that report were substantiated, and nevertheless no member was disposed to bring it forward, was it not the duty of government to consider what ought to be done? Was such an individual to remain in the seat of justice with such a charge hanging over his character? It would be monstrous to affirm such a proposition.
 Mr. Denman  described the proceedings which bad taken place under the commission of inquiry, and asked whether, after a report was laid upon the table respecting them, the business could stop there. And yet, before that report was read, before its contents could be appreciated, the right hon. secretary volunteered a declaration, that government would institute no ulterior proceedings thereupon. Suppose it should prove a case of an officer of high judicial rank acting in a manner utterly derogatory from his station and dignity, were they to be told that government would not then take some step in the business, and that it must drop, unless some private member undertook the ulterior course, of moving for parliamentary impeachment?
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that the right hon. gentleman's attention had been zealous and uniform, and had only been equalled by the candour which he had displayed. In answer to what had fallen from the right hon. secretary, he must observe, that making a charge was one thing; but when that charge was confirmed, the prosecution of the case was another. He never did nor would shrink from his duty, however painful; but he must enter his protest against the fairness of casting a proceeding like this on an individual.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he had, two years ago, submitted to the House a motion on this, subject. The proposition he had then brought forward was, that the papers on the table of the House contained grave charges against the high law officer alluded to. Those papers were referred to a committee, who had affirmed his proposition; and the labours of the committee which had recently examined the subject had terminated in the same result. He hoped the report would be seriously examined by the House and by the member of his majesty's government, and
 361
 Mr. S. Rice  denied that any change had taken place in his opinion upon the subject, or that he thought the case in the least less clear than he did on the first day of his mentioning it. Directly the reverse was the fact; and it was on that ground that he considered it the duty of those who were bound to watch over the administration of justice, to take steps to vindicate the purity of that administration on the present occasion.
 Mr. Peel  said, he was really ignorant of the merits of the case; for, owing to the part which his duty had compelled him to take in Ireland, respecting an office held by the chief baron's son, he had, from delicacy, absented himself from the committee which sat to make this inquiry.
 Sir John Stewart  deprecated the idea of raising obstacles to the fair operation of the bill, from which, with some modification, much good would result to Ireland.
 Sir J. Newport  agreed, that it would be most impolitic to allow the bill, to remain over to the next session. He expressed his firm conviction, that unless some measures were adopted by parlia-
 376
 Sir J. Newport  contended, that, as these proceedings grew out of the investigation of a commission appointed by the Crown, in consequence of an address of that House, his majesty's minister sought now to take the business up. His hon. friend had sufficiently shown that he did not shrink from responsibility, since he had originally moved for a committee. A second committee had now reported; and both of them bore him out in the charges he had made.
 Mr. Hobhouse  presented a Petition, which was signed by between 2,000 and 3,000 respectable tradesmen of the city of Westminster. They prayed for a repeal, or a considerable alteration, of the Insolvent Debtors' act. The House was aware that from the time of passing that act, petitions had poured into the House from all parts of the country, praying for its repeal. The petitioners saw nothing in the existing law which could recommend its continuance. They did not merely complain of it, but they had taken the liberty of pointing out the manner in which they conceived the grievances it occasioned should be remedied. The petition had been very maturely considered at two numerous meetings of the inhabitants of the city which he had the honour to represent; and persons whose opinions were upon most other occasions opposed, had in this instance agreed upon the resolutions which were embodied in it. The suggestions to which he wished more particularly to draw the attention, of the
 377
 The Lord Mayor  presented a petition most numerously and respectably signed by many of his constituents the working silk-weavers of Sudbury, against the repeal of the act called the Spitalfields act, and which had for its object to regulate the price of labour in that trade. His lordship stated, that they were apprehensive the consequence would be, to reduce their means of subsistence, and consequently to increase the poor-rates. The act had been passed in consequence of great disputes between the masters and men, and since that period the silk trade had flourished, and the men had been satisfied. At all events, whatever might be the original policy of the measure, it ought not to be interfered with without great caution, and opportunity for all parties interested to be heard fully on the subject.
 Mr. Calvert  recommended that time
 378
 Mr. Huskisson  thought, that nothing could be more desirable than to reduce, as far as was practicable, all charges on vessels trading to our ports, and those of our own colonies. He had heard that these charges were very excessive in many of our colonies; but he apprehended, that the greater portion of them had been imposed by colonial legislatures, without the interference of the government at home. He perfectly agreed, that the trade between this country and Ireland should be placed upon the same footing as the trade between any two ports of England.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would state, as briefly as possible, the grounds on which he thought it highly inexpedient to repeal the duty. The first was, that the revenue of the country was not at present in a condition to spare 350,000 l., 395 l., s. 396 l.
 Mr. Philips  thought the standing order bore upon the present question.
 Mr. Maxwell  thought it might he safely presumed, that the petitioners had good reason for their opposition to the present bill. He certainly hesitated to say, that he approved of the repeal. At any rate, he was persuaded it ought not to be an isolated measure; He was one of those who thought that some regulations respecting wages, and among others, that of fixing their minimum, would be serviceable to the community at large.
 Mr. Huskisson  admitted, that if a doubt existed respecting the operation of the standing order, it ought to be considered before they proceeded further. It had not, however, been previously acted upon; and its effect, if used in the manner now proposed, would be, to paralyse all the proceedings of that House in matters of trade.
 Mr. Baring  rather preferred the formation of a committee. It did not follow that such a committee should enter into a protracted inquiry. With respect to the standing order, he saw nothing of absolute wisdom in it, and thought it ought to be repealed. With respect to the petitions, they did not weigh much with him. They came from a set of persons who were either labourers in the trade, or tradesmen and shopkeepers with whom those labourers dealt, and who would, of course, join in the prayer of their customers.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that though this standing order had been introduced on the 23rd of June, 1820, it had never been acted upon. He would, to-morrow, move,
 387
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that to the question of fact which had been put to him by the hon. and learned gentleman, he could only reply, that his majesty's government had hitherto received no information upon the matter, except through that channel by which the statement in question had been published to all the world. He had, therefore, no means of verifying the fact on which the hon. and learned gentleman's inquiry was founded. In the second place, as to the situation in which this country stood with Russia, in respect of the general question, it was true, that they had entered a protest against her claim, upon the first promulgation of those principles. That protest had been renewed, both at the congress at Verona, and in subsequent negotiations. Those negotiations were still pending, and in activity at the court of St. Petersburgh.
 Mr. S. Rice  begged to call the attention of the late and present president of the Board of Trade to the petition which he held in his hand. That the trade of Ireland should, in all respects, be put on the same footing with that of the rest of the empire, so far as was consistent with a due regard for the revenue, was a principle not to be disputed. It would, however, surprise the House to learn, that the trade of Ireland was subject to a charge amounting to not less than one-sixth on the average of all freights. To show this, he need only instance the trade between Liverpool and Dublin, or Belfast. The vessel from Liverpool to Dublin would have to pay light and harbour dues only once in the year; whereas, the vessel coming into the port of Liverpool, from Belfast or Dublin, would have to pay the same dues
 389 l. l.
 Mr. F. Buxlon  admitted, that the pe-
 379
 Mr. S. Wortley  concurred in opinion
 382
 Mr. G. Philips  wished the measure not to be hurried through the House. It ought to receive a calm and deliberate consideration. He thought the existing act was injurious to the workmen; but, on that very account, he thought delay ought to take place, because he was desirous that the necessity of the repeal should be manifested to the workmen themselves. It was said, that the combination acts were injurious; but it should be recollected, that there was now a bill before the House to put an end to them. No body of men had suffered more than the Spitalfields weavers; and, in his opinion, their sufferings had been chiefly occasioned by the law which the right hon. gentleman wished to repeal.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, there was one singular feature in this discussion; namely, that not one of those who had taken a part in it, had contended for the principle of the bill which was about to be repealed; and yet, when not a single member was disposed to maintain the proposition, that the principle was a good one, they were asked to appoint a committee to investigate this subject. What would be the use of such a proceeding, when every man was precisely of the same opinion? He had heard, many complaints from time
 383 384
 Mr. Calcraft  was of opinion, that it would be unadvisable to proceed further in this business, without giving the petitioners an opportunity of being heard. Let them first be heard, and then the House could decide upon the merits of the case—that a course which, though it should ultimately prove adverse to the view at present taken by the petitioners of their interests, would, he had not a doubt, be acquiesced in by the parties at issue.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that he was requested by one of the most respectable persons engaged in the silk trade in Ireland, to express a hope that the bill would not be hurried in its progress through the House. The Irish silk-trade suffered regulations analogous to that carried on in Spitalfields, with the additional control of the Dublin society.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that at that moment an application to the magistrates was pending respecting the price upon the manufacture of a particular article. With respect to the standing order, whatever
 385
 Mr. S. Worthy  contended, that the standing order was applicable to the present case.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  explained the origin of the standing order. A bill imposing certain restrictions on trade had found its way through that House to the House of Lords, where it was objected to, and the Lords came to a resolution, that no such bill should be agreed to, but after the reference of the subject to a committee. The House of Commons then came to a similar resolution. However the order might be worded, its object evidently was, to prevent the introduction of new restraints upon trade, and not the removal of those which already existed.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he was a friend to the principle of any measure calculated to put an end to animal or human sufferings; but it was an objection  to
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman was most absurd. It was as much as to say, that if five hundred persons were cast upon a rock on a desolate island, and all could not be saved, the attempt should not be made to save any of them.
 Mr. Peel  objected to the motion, because it belonged to a class of subjects which he did not think fit for legislation in this manner.
 Mr. John Smith  said, that so far as dog-fighting was concerned, he would vote for the bill. He understood that, in the very neighbourhood of the House, amusements, as they were miscalled, of the most gross and brutal kind were carried on. Such proceedings ought to be discouraged; and the motion of the
 434
 Mr. W. Smith  was happy that his hon. friend had introduced this subject. He hoped it would be successful, because he was convinced that a bill of this nature would be advantageous to the character of the lower classes of Englishmen. The practice of bull-baiting, dog-fighting, and badger-baiting, did not, whatever might be said to the contrary, add to the real courage of Englishmen. But it tended to keep up and extend a brutal ferocity, which was not advantageous to the country in any point of view. The argument which was founded on the impropriety of interfering with the amusements of the poor, while those of the rich were left untouched, would, if examined, be found fallacious. The pain which animals suffered in the one instance, was incidental and unavoidable, and the rich man would be better pleased if he could prevent its occurrence; but, in the other instance, the degree of pleasure in the spectator was proportioned to the quantity of suffering which was inflicted on the animal. If the conduct of those who pursued such pastimes were examined he believed it would be found that their proceedings during the night were just as cruel and as lawless as they were through.out the day.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  could not agree with the hon. gentleman, that dog-fighting or bull-baiting had such a tendency to render men savage and ferocious. In his younger days he had witnessed some of these exhibitions; and as they had not made him ferocious, he thought they would not have a different effect on the people in general. Such subjects as these he considered to be far beneath the dignity of legislation. If the House entertained such questions, they would next be called on to provide a fit punishment for the slaying of cock-chafers and the destruction of flies.
 Mr. R. Martin  wished to know whether leave would be given him to bring in a bill merely to protect dogs; and whether, if he withdrew his motion now, he would be allowed to bring it forward at a more advanced period of the session? [Cries of "No, no."]
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  expressed a hope that his hon. friend would not be prevailed upon to withdraw his motion. The same arguments had been urged against his former bill, the effects of which were
 435
 Mr. Brougham  wished to ask his hon. friend, whether he had ever taken the trouble to analyse the component parts of the company at a horse race?
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose. He began by reminding the House of the extent to which the resolutions, nine in all, went; namely, at once to do away with capital punishments, in a great variety of offences to which those resolutions referred. The first suggestion which he would make to the House upon them would be this—were they not of sufficient importance to require a distinct and separate consideration, and whether the hon. and learned gentleman ought not to have taken the ordinary course of asking leave to bring in a bill upon each of the divisions of his resolutions, rather than have had recourse to the mode which he had taken? For only let the House consider into what inconveniences it might be drawn. By assenting to the resolutions of the hon. and learned gentleman, it would affirm all the propositions laid down in them; and if it allowed a bill to be brought in pursuant to those propositions, the result might be, that finding the bill not worthy of being supported throughout, it would feel itself compelled to abandon it. While the resolutions professedly followed the report of the committee on criminal law, it took in cases not referred to in that report. There was the offence of sheep, cattle, and horse stealing, not referred to in the report, in which the resolutions proposed to do away the capital punishment. That the hon. and learned gentleman had been misled by the report was plain; and being so misled as to facts and cases wholly omitted in that report, which he made without any notice given to the House of the objects of his resolutions, was it fair that they should be called on to give a distinct opinion upon so many important alterations of the law? Suppose the House to affirm the resolutions that night, and afterwards to find themselves unable to assent to the bills brought in pursuant to them, would not that be an inconvenient situation for the House to be placed in? Was there nothing inconvenient in the rejection of a bill brought in to remedy defects, which, as the Journals of the House would show, had been fully and clearly admitted? He
 421 422 423 424 lettres de grace, 425 426 s.; 427 l. l. s. s., 428 429
 The Attorney General  observed, that even the sweeping resolutions of his hon. and learned friend would be inefficient to their proposed object. How did his hon. and learned friend propose to meet the case of larceny in cottages left unprotected in the day time, to which the existing law affixed a capital punishment? He complained that his hon. and learned friend had taken the House by surprise, in not having stated previously the specific nature of his motion, even to his own friends. The House, he thought, would require some notice before they would Consent to adopt resolutions, each of them involving topics that would require separate discussion.
 Mr. Sykes  said, he rose, in pursuance of a notice he had given on a subject upon which he had once before addressed the House. He was not disposed, however, to be very sorry for his disappointment on that occasion, being convinced that he now stood on more favourable ground than he did last session. At that time, the language of government was, that the condition of the community would only be rendered worse, by any attempt to relieve the distresses of the country by reducing taxation. He was now, however, happy to say, that the government asserted principles of a more pleasing sound, and more beneficial nature. In his majesty's speech from the throne, at the commencement of the present session, it was announced that a large reduction of taxes would take place; and ministers themselves had announced the fact, that the only mode in which the condition of the most suffering of all the interests in the community could be ameliorated, namely, the agriculturists, was by reducing the taxes. Parliament, therefore, had now come to the right and sound conclusion as to the means of relief. That they consisted in a remission of the taxation by which the country was oppressed, was a point that he should assume to have been generally conceded. The only remaining question, therefore, regarded the mode and objects of that reduction, and whether such reduction had yet taken place, as the country had a right to demand at the hands of parliament. He, for one, was free to acknowledge his great obligations to the government for having repealed a large proportion of the assessed taxes; but he must be allowed to say, that the relief which they had proposed to give by such repeal, had not been felt in the right place. It was not a relief directly or immediately to the agricultural interest, nor such as would diminish the expense of raising the produce of the country; for as to taking off the taxes on carriages, hunting horses, &c., in what way could that enable the industrious farmer to bring his produce to market at a cheaper rate? But, while he suggested this, he meant not to say, that the ar-
 391 l. l. l., l.; l.; 392 l. l. l. s. d. 393 l. l., 394
 Mr. Ricardo  said, in answer; to what had fallen from an hon. gentleman, that if they waited until they could, at one
 381
 Mr. Ricardo  thought that this petition, coming from a district which was free, and praying that a restriction might be continued upon another district, was a most powerful argument in favour of the very measure which it opposed.
 Mr. Ellice  urged the propriety of postponement. It would be hard on the petitioners, if now, for the first time, the standing order was considered inapplicable to the present question.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he agreed that all the restrictions on trade which had been alluded to had probably better be removed. But, how were they proceeding? They were, however, proceeding to remove a law which, as the workmen conceived, afforded them protection, while they allowed the Combination act, and the act against the emigration of artisans, to remain in existence, which statutes, as every one knew, operated severely against certain of the working classes. The weavers undoubtedly believed that the bill which was about to be repealed afforded them some protection; and they saw none of those evils which the master-manufacturers apprehended would flow from suffering it to continue in force. They were the persons chiefly interested; and he thought their call for some delay was not unreasonable. There were some restrictions, he was aware, on the master-manufacturer, with respect to the mode of carrying on his business, but these were very easily evaded. It was said, that the existing act was a deviation from general principles; but where it suited particular interests, the House frequently deviated from such principles. That was the case with respect to the corn-laws, and the laws affecting other branches of trade, by which the workmen were grievously oppressed. So that the mere deviation from general principles, in this particular case, was not of itself a sufficient reason for repealing the act. The workmen were seriously aggrieved by the emigration laws, which prevented them from carrying their labour to other countries, as the master-manufacturer was enabled to carry his capital. Let it net, therefore, go abroad, that the House would interfere with those acts which the workman thought beneficial to his interests, and not redress the grievances which grew out of measures which he felt to be oppressive. He would ask the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson), whether he could not, without interposing any great impediment to the progress of this bill, give a little more time for the con-
 380
 Mr. Ellice  begged to make a remark on the charges to which our shipping was subjected in the colonies. The charge on a ship of 300 tons, in one of these colonies, amounted to nearly 10 s. s.
 Mr. F. Buxton  presented a similar petition, which, having lain for signatures only three days, had received 11,000, Females had not been permitted to sign, nor any person under the age of 20. It came from the journeymen silk-weavers of London and Middlesex. Its object was, to represent to the House the dismay and alarm which had been caused in the minds of the weavers of Spitalfields, by the bill which was appointed to be read a second time that day. It stated, that the journeymen weavers had derived great benefit from the effects of the existing laws, of which he thought they were competent judges, and which they said did not repress industry in any shape. It stated, that the poor-rates in the neighbourhood from which this petition came amounted only to 3 s.
 Mr. F. Buxton  called the attention of the House to the standing order, which precluded them from receiving any measure for imposing a new restriction upon trade, or altering any thing relating to trade, without its being previously submitted to a select committee. With respect to the disputes-among the workmen, he had the authority of Mr. Hall, who had resided forty years in Spitalfields, to say, that within his memory there had only been two instances of applications to the magistrates by the workmen.
 Mr. F. Buxton  presented a similar petition from the tradesmen of Spitalfields, expressing their apprehension, that the result of the repeal of the existing law would be, the increase of the poor-rates, and praying the House not to pass the bill without the fullest examination. In his opinion, inquiry was indispensably necessary, to pacify the opponents of the repeal if they were wrong, or to do them justice if they were right.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose, amidst loud cries of "question!" He observed, that the lateness of the hour alone prevented him from replying at length to the speech of the right hon. secretary. All he should then say was, that that speech had greatly disappointed him. He contended, that the recorded pledge of the House could be most imperfectly redeemed by the measures proposed by the right hon. gentleman, under the operation of which
 430
 Mr. Curwen  said, he was opposed to the duty on candles, because he thought it pressed with great severity upon the poorer classes. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had completely blinked the question. He had talked of the relief afforded to the country from taxation; but that relief was almost confined to the richer classes. The labouring poor felt little benefit from it; but relief to those classes was of importance; for unless the labourer was relieved from some of the
 397
 Mr. Monck supported the hon. mover, who, in his opinion, had made out as complete a case as had ever been submitted to the consideration of parliament.
 Mr. Hume  said, he regretted that the right hon. proposer of this measure was not in his place, to vindicate the broad and general principle upon which it was founded. He was willing to give the petitioners credit for very honest intentions, but he thought they did not understand the operation of those principles to their own advantage or disadvantage. They thought, for instance, that the existing law had been beneficial to them, when it had, in fact, been; for the last forty or fifty years, diverting the trade to Sudbury and to other places. He was satisfied that, in proposing the present measure, his majesty's ministers had conferred a benefit on the country at large.
 Mr. R. Martin  begged leave to suggest to his hon. and learned friend, that if it was his intention to follow up his resolutions with bills, it would be injudicious to risk the fate of those bills by pressing the resolutions to a division. Many members who would vole against the resolutions might vote for every one of the bills. If, however, his hon. and learned friend persisted in dividing the House, he would vote with him.
 Mr. Wallace  agreed perfectly in the principle, that the trade of Ireland ought to be placed on the same footing as that of England. The matter had already been made the subject of inquiry. The result to which his majesty's government had come was, that the trade of Ireland ought to be placed on the same footing as the home trade of the rest of the empire. He trusted that the committee would speedily be enabled to report on the matter.
 Mr. Wallace  was satisfied that, whatever was the wording of the standing order, it had no real application to the principle of this bill, and he should regret extremely to see it impeded upon such a pretence. If the House yielded to the present application, the result must be the loss of the bill for the present session.
 Mr. Haldimand  said, he would support the bill introduced by the right hon. gentleman, because he believed if the existing acts were not repealed, the silk-trade in Spitalfields would be extinguished altogether in the course of a very few years. He stated this, not upon any general principle, but as a mere matter of fact. An allusion had been made to the petitioners, as not understanding political economy; but the resolutions and the petition which they had agreed to at a public meeting, contained some of the strongest principles of what he supposed they considered political economy that were ever promulgated. They approved of the doctrine, that the magistrate should fix the prices, and that no one should work for more or less than he settled. This was a monstrous proposition. The price was not to be determined by the number of labourers, as compared with the demand, but by the magistrate; who, it must be presumed, possessed some in tuitive mode of judging what was exactly the proper rate. Their observations on machinery were equally unsound; and their complaint, that, if the present bill were passed, the wages of the Spitalfields weaver would suffer the same reduction as had taken place in Coventry and else where, was really absurd. Their argument went to this—that the rate of wages there should continue the same, whether the price of provisions remained as it was now, became lower, or was doubled. Whoever drew up that petition had made out a better case for the repeal of the present bill, than those persons had done who had petitioned the House to effect that object. It was a remarkable circumstance, that since that bill had been passed, the rate of the weaver's wages had risen, but had never fallen. No instance of a fall had occurred, although the wages in other branches of the trade had been reduced. Some years ago the masters had called for the repeal of this bill; and he believed there were very few of them at present who did not wish for its removal.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, the reason why he called for delay was, to allow time for the prejudices of those who disapproved of the bill to subside, or be overcome. In conversing with some of the petitioners, he had found them prejudiced, but reasonable; and if delay were granted, perhaps those prejudices might be removed, and the bill be passed without opposition.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought, that as the petition concerned the interests of a large body of industrious and ingenious men, their opinions and even prejudices ought to be attentively listened to.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he rose, much against his inclination, to state his opinion with respect to the meaning and construction of the standing order, because he was decidedly favourable to the bill, and as decidedly opposed to any thing which might oppose its progress. But, unfortunately, they were bound to consider the orders of that House, according to their general and plain import. For himself, he considered the removal of any restraint upon trade as much a regulation of such trade, as the imposition of any restraint could be. He had heard his hon. friend (Mr. Maxwell's) observation, about a minimum of wages, with regret. If his hon. friend's view were correct, he ought to apply his minimum equally to prices and to rents; not that such an extension of the application would correct the principle. On the contrary, it would expose its absurdity.
 Sir J. Mackintosh,  seeing the secretary of state for foreign affairs in his place, wished to put a question to him on a subject of high importance, and nearly connected, not only with the honour and dignity of his majesty's crown, but with the interests of all lawful and practical navigation. It would be recollected, that in the course of the last session, he had addressed a similar inquiry to the late marquis of Londonderry, with respect to certain wild, monstrous, and extravagant pretensions of the emperor of Russia, to exclusive authority over vast dominions by sea and land, on the north-west coast of America; those dominions embracing on shore, several extensive territories now occupied by subjects of his Britannic majesty, and others which were possessed by citizens and subjects of the United States of America: and by sea, including an extent of ocean, stretching from the north-west coasts of America, to the north-east coasts of Asia. On the occasion to which he alluded, the noble marquis informed the House that he had, by the command of his majesty, protested on the part of the British government against those principles of dominion which had been recently set up by Russia, and which he justly described as principles that were injurious to the maritime rights of all commercial I nations, and especially obnoxious to those of the first commercial nation in the world. Since that period, however, and indeed but a few days since, information had been received in this country from America, that Russia no longer rented upon unwarrantable pretensions; but, that Russian ships of war had been actually employed to warn off the ships of all countries, from the whole extent intervening between Nootka Sound and Japan, as part and parcel of the Russian empire. He had been informed, that they had driven away American vessels which were sailing in those latitudes; and the same principle of exclusion would extend to any British ships which they might find there, as matter of course. Doubtless, as a preliminary step to that universal dominion by land and sea, which
 388
 Sir J. Mackintosh,  after a few preliminary remarks regarding the difficulty of attracting the attention of the House to so hacknied a subject as that upon which he was about to address it, said, that the first public discussion at which he had been present after his return from India, was a discussion in another place, upon a measure of his late lamented friend, sir Samuel Romilly, tending to ameliorate the existing state of our Criminal Laws. In the course of that discussion, he had heard it stated, in an excellent speech made in favour of the principle for which he was now prepared to contend, that if a foreigner were to form his estimate of the people of England from a consideration of their penal code, he would undoubtedly conclude that they were a nation of barbarians. This expression, though strong, was unquestionably true; for what other opinion could a humane foreigner form of us, when he found, that in our criminal law there were two hundred offences against which the punishment of death was denounced, upon twenty of which only, that punishment was ever inflicted—that we were savage in our threats, and yet were feeble in our execution of punishments—that we cherished a system, which in theory was odious, but which was impotent in practice, from its excessive severity—that, in cases of high treason, we involved innocent children in all the consequences of their father's guilt—that in cases of corruption of blood, we were even still more cruel, punishing the off I spring, when we could not reach the
 398 habeas corpus, 399 400 401 Graia pandetur ab urbe. 402 403 Opinionum 404 405 arbitrio judicis. Magna Charta: 406 407 408 409 s. l. s. s. l. to l. 410 411 412 413 414 415 416 felo de se 417 Insontes Projecêre animas. Quam vellent ætlierc in alto Nunc et pauperiem et duros perferre labores! Fata obstant, tristiquc palus inamabilis undâ Alligat, ct novies Styx interfusa coercet." insontes 418 419 
 1. "That it is expedient to take away the punishment of death in the case of larceny from ships, from dwelling houses, and on navigable rivers. 2. "That it is expedient to repeal so much of the statute 9 Geo. 1, commonly called the Black Act, as creates capital felonies, excepting the crimes of setting fire to a dwelling house, and of maliciously shooting at an individual. 3. "That it is expedient to repeal so much of the statute 26 Geo. 2, c. 33, commonly called the Marriage Act, as creates capital felonies. 4. "That it is expedient to repeal so much of the statute 21 Jac. 1. c. 26, relating to fines and recoveries; of 6 Geo. 2, c. 37, relating to cutting down banks of rivers; of 27 Geo. 2, c. 19, relating to threatening letters; of 27 Geo. 2, c, 19, relating to the Bedford Level; of 3 Geo. 3, c. 16, relating to Greenwich Pensioners; of 22 Geo. 3, c. 4, relating to cutting serges; and of 24 Geo. 3, c. 24, relating to convicts returned from transportation, as subjects persons convicted of the offences therein specified, to the punishment of death. 5. "That it is expedient to take away the punishment of death in the cases of Horse Stealing, Sheep Stealing, and Cattle Stealing. 6. "That it is expedient to take away the punishment of death in the cases of Forgery, and of uttering forged instruments. 7. "That in the case of all the aforesaid offences, which are not otherwise sufficiently punishable by law, the punishments of transportation for life or years, or of imprisonment with or without hard labour, shall be substituted for death, in such proportions and with such latitudes of discretion in the judges as the nature and magnitude of the respective offences will require. 8. "That it is expedient to make provision that the Judges shall not pronounce sentence of death in those cases where they have no expectation that such sentence will be executed. 420 9. "That it is fit to take away the forfeiture of goods and chattels in the case of Suicide, and to put an end to those indignities which are practised on the remains of the dead, in the cases of Suicide and High Treason."
 Sir J. Mackintosh,  in reply, said, that he would trespass but a few minutes to explain the part which he should take with respect to the resolutions. He agreed with his hon. and learned friend, in rejoicing that the principles of his late lamented friend, sir S. Romilly, had been adopted to any extent; but he would have rejoiced still more, if they had been adopted more extensively; for, with the exception of one bill, the whole appeared to him to be a delusion. The conduct of his majesty's ministers upon this subject reminded him of an expression of a friend of his, with respect to another person, that he was a great friend to general principles, but had an exception for every particular case. With respect to the first resolution, he would ask, how often had the House of Commons voted for the very measure to Which it pointed? Would the right hon. gentleman advise the House to undo what it had done? To retrace its steps and forfeit its pledge to the country? In proposing the resolutions, he only wished to take the sense of the House in a popular way. The question was precisely the same as if he had moved for leave to bring in a bill; at the utmost, it only
 432
 Mr. Scarlett  said, he could not concur with his hon. friend, the member for Weymouth, as to the impression which the speech of the right hon. secretary was calculated to make. It was with great satisfaction that he had heard that speech, and he could not but rejoice, that the efforts to ameliorate our criminal code, which had been so long and so strenuously made, had at length succeeded, and that his majesty's ministers not only acceded to the principle, but proposed to sanction a series of measures in conformity with that principle. He could not, however, agree with the right hon. gentleman's reasoning with respect to the discretion vested in the executive power as to the punishment of death. If that were admitted, it would apply to every crime. He had not seen the resolutions of his hon. and learned friend before that evening. He was ready to support any measure which went to the mitigation of the punishment for forgery; but he did not see the necessity, because he did not see the advantage, of the House being at that time pledged to any specific mode of mitigation, the principle being already admitted. For his own part, he was desirous of having an opportunity of saying, upon each resolution, whether he would adopt the previous question or not; and his hon. and learned friend must not think that, because he did not approve of every part of his resolutions, he was, therefore, unfriendly to their principle. He rejoiced that the day had at length arrived when those principles which his late lamented friend, sir Samuel Romilly, had long endeavoured to introduce met with the general concurrence of the government. His majesty's minister had confessed himself a convert to the opinion, that severity of punishment was not the most expedient method of repressing crimes; that punishment ought to be consonant to the feelings and sympathies of mankind; and that those feelings ought
 431
 Sir J. Newport  was extremely happy to hear what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman. He had, twenty times, at least, endeavoured to impress on his majesty's government the justice and necessity of placing the trade of Ireland on the same footing with that of the rest of the empire. 390
 Lord Milton  thought the petitioners ought to be heard. In a case in which the interests of so many persons were concerned, it would not be right to dwell on what might be the original intent of the standing order. And after all, the repeal of restrictions on trade was, in fact, the introduction of a new regulation with respect to it.
 Mr. D. Browne  defended the standing order, and argued that its provisions ought to be complied with. In that part of the empire from which became, he had never heard any person say, that the taking off the stamp from linen would not be ruinous.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said; the standing order in question was introduced, not to prevent parliament from removing restraints on trade, but to prevent them from suddenly, unwisely, and improvidently imposing restraints on it. If, when it was before the House, he had imagined, that it would hinder them from taking away restrictions, he would have opposed it, instead of giving it his Support. [Hear.]
 Sir R. Fergusson  said, he was in correspondence with every part of Scotland in which the linen trade was carried on, and he had not heard a voice raised against the measure introduced by the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Calcraft  contended, that the standing order was imperative. Why not, then, yield to it, and particularly when the object was, to promote a bill which seemed to give general approbation? The right hon. gentleman said, that this order was a most indiscreet tampering with the right principles of trade. He was glad to find this new light broken in upon him, and was sorry it had not shed its rays before he introduced his naval and military pensions' bill. The right hon. gentleman might take credit perhaps for having given up the lottery; but the fact was, that the lottery had given him up. The current report was, that the usual contractors had lost so much money by the scheme, that they would have nothing more to do with it. Unless some doubt could be fairly thrown upon the words of the standing order, why refer it to a committed?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as to the lottery, the only thing that had occurred was a five minutes' hesitation on the part of the lottery-office-keepers, whether they would bid or not.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had given notice yesterday that he meant to call the attention of the House this evening, to the objection which had been taken against proceeding with any bill intended for the regulation of trade, unless the subject were first referred to a select committee, in conformity with the Standing Order of that House, agreed to on the 23d of June, 1820. After the best consideration he could give the subject, it
 436 437
 Mr. Keith Douglas  said, he was quite ready to concur with the observations made by the advocates for the doctrines of political economy. He had no doubt that, if the principle could be universally applied, every branch of human industry might be accommodated in a convenient manner, by enabling the inhabitants of all countries to purchase the articles of which they stood in need at the cheapest rate and without restriction. But, as this universal application was, if not impossible, at least not practicable, he besought the House to recollect that the existing commercial interests of this country were founded upon different principles. The eminence to which that branch of those interests now under discussion had risen, was to be attributed solely to the colonial compact sought to be broken down by the present motion. If the East-India sugars should be admitted to equal privileges which this compact had granted to those of the West Indies, the ruin of the latter colonies would be effected. He would draw the attention of the House to some facts which would illustrate the view he had taken of the interests of the colonies. The value of British and Irish manufactures exported to the West Indies might be estimated at the annual average of 3,560,000 l. 455 l. s. 456 l. l.
 Mr. Robertson  contended, that the consumer was benefitted by the present state of things, and that the East Indies produced instances of more degrading slavery than the West. The population of India was divided into four classes, of which the Soudah was the scum, and the Bramin the head. The lowest cast could no more rise to a higher, such were the institutions of the country, than a horse could become a man. The incapacity of India under this wtetched system of slavery was such, that she could not even compete with the free labour of Italy for silk, though India had three crops in the year and Italy but one, and the production of sugar required still more exertion. From the destruction caused to the roots of the canes by the white ants, it would be impossible ever to make the growth of sugar in the East Indies sufficiently productive. Though, in 1792, an attempt was made to establish a colony for the growth and manufacture of 6ugar, China, Batavia, and Java, still continued to supply Bengal and Madras with that commodity. It was not for the interest of the consumer that the present system should be changed, and it would be worse for India herself.
 457
 Colonel Barry  said, that he himself had never postponed the inquiry a single day.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought, that if the right hon. gentleman would propose to go to the order of the day, that would soon bring the business to an issue.
 Colonel Barry  said, that from the first of these proceedings, he had never once moved the order of the day. The inquiry had been brought on by gentlemen on the other side, and it was for them to move the order of the day upon it.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he would them tomorrow, at an early hour, move the Order of the day on this inquiry, and take the sense of the House upon the matter. The present course of the proceeding was quite intolerable.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that in one or two instances the government had been informed of a violation of the Greek blockade; but that, in one instance especially, which came to their knowledge a fortnight ago, they had immediately sent out most positive orders, that the British cruisers should respect alike the blockades of both powers [Hear!].
 Sir Robert Heron  said, he thought it would be convenient for the House, and a measure that would relieve very many individuals from much anxiety and inconvenience, if the House would name some definitive period for considering the order of the day oh this matter. There were upwards of fifty witnesses in town, at a great expense to the public, and much inconvenience to themselves; and several of them, perhaps, with little public advantage, and little probability of being asked many questions. He did not wish to anticipate any interrogatories which hon. gentlemen might be disposed to put to them; but every one, who had at all attended to the course of this inquiry, must have observed how languidly it went on. At present, there appeared no chance of again pursuing the inquiry on any but a very distant day. Under these circumstances he wished the House to come to some decision; so that the inquiry might either cease at once, or be brought to a speedy determination.
 Colonel Barry  said, that however it might appear to the hon. baronet, the fact was, that the last day's: proceedings had elicited matter of the greatest importance.
 442
 Sir R. Heron  disclaimed any intention of reflecting on the mode in which the right hon. gentleman had conducted the inquiry. Would Monday next be an inconvenient day for resuming it?
 Mr. Marryat  said, it was extremely amusing to hear hon. members, proprietors of East-India stock, declaiming in that House on the advantages of a free trade, at the very moment that they themselves were interested in one of the most outrageous monopolies that ever existed in any country in the world. He should be glad to hear that some of those liberal principles had found their way into Leadenhall-street, and that that company had consented to the opening of a free trade with China; but as this was not done, he thought that those concerned ought to be silent on the subject of monopoly, of which
 460 461
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he did not rise at that late hour to trouble the House at any length on the subject, but simply to state his reasons for dissenting from the motion. He did not partake of the fears and alarms of the hon. member for Seaford, neither could he participate in the sanguine expectations of the hon. mover, if his motion were adopted. His hon. friend who spoke last had truly observed, that this was merely a motion for inquiry; and, if he could have entertained a doubt of the inconveniences which would result from going into that inquiry, the speech of his hon. friend would have satisfied him, that when once the committee should be formed, instead of the inquiry being confined to the mere commercial question respecting sugar, it would be conducted solely with a reference to the fearful and delicate sub-
 464 465 466 s. 467
 Mr. Forbes  strongly advocated the cause of the East-India sugar grower. He asked, whether the present president of the Board of Control had not stated to the late chairman of the court of directors, that it was the intention of ministers to sanction the appointment of a committee, to inquire into the whole question of the sugar duties? He saw more clearly than ever, that the West-India interest in that House was paramount to every other.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that being called on in this distinct manner, it was necessary for him to say a few words. He wished his hon. friend had given him an intimation that he meant to make the reference he had done, because he would then have recurred to the note which he had written to the late chairman of the East-India company. He must now observe, that he distinctly understood, when the late chancellor of the exchequer had spoken of a committee, that that committee was only to inquire into the additional duty of 15 s.
 Mr. C. Ellis , after complimenting the hon. gentleman on the talents he had displayed on this and on previous occasions, said, he thought that the present question was peculiarly unfit for reference to a committee. It was not a matter of detail where local and practical information was required from witnesses acquainted with the commerce or situation of the West Indies: it was a question of state policy and high principle—of regard for vested interests and antecedent claims—in a word, whether this country would make the sacrifice of its West-India colonies for the encouragement of a new commercial speculation. Among the arguments which it had been of late the fashion to introduce on this subject, he must beg leave to protest against those which supported the system of a free, unrestricting, and unlimited commerce. He did not mean to enter into the merits of the general theory, but he denied its applicability to the present question. What the East-India interest required was, not the freedom of trade; they required an equalization of the duties on East and West-India sugar; but they left in full force the prohibitory duties on foreign sugar. They asked for merely so much as would enable them to supplant the West-India colonists in the home market, and afterwards to retain to themselves the exclusive supply of the sugar consumed in this country. As to the argument founded on the indefinite increase of the demand for British manufactures in India, he thought it could not be fairly introduced into this question. Undoubtedly, the demand for British manufactures might be partially increased by the ruin of the West-India colonists; but
 452 453 454
 Mr. Ricardo , in explanation, observed, that he had never possessed a shilling more than 1000 l.
 Mr. Ricardo  was glad to see this contest for the adoption of liberal principles in matters of trade. He hoped they would persevere in getting rid of such obnoxious and impolitic regulations.
 Mr. Ricardo  congratulated the House upon the comfortable information contained in the speech of the hon. member who bad spoken last, and who had shown, that, what with the white ants and other difficulties, it would be impossible for the East-India planters ever to compete with those of the West-India colonies. The inference from which was, that there was nothing to fear from allowing them the advantage required. On this occasion he would take the liberty of quoting a speech of the hon. member for Sandwich (Mr. Marryat) in 1809, which was marked throughout by its strict adherence to the true principles of political economy. In that speech, the hon. member had contended for the policy of admitting the conquered colonies to an equal participation in the trade with the other colonies of England. The question at that time was, whether the colony of Martinique should be allowed to send its sugars to the British market on the same terms as the other colonies, and the hon. member had then clearly shown, by a train of the soundest reasoning, that the price of sugar oh the continent regulating the price in this country, it could be no disadvantage to us that the sugar of Martinique should be sent here. Here the hon. member read the passage of the speech to which he had alluded. He then went on to contend, that the same argument (substituting the East Indies for Martinique) would apply to the question before the House. The sugars of the East Indies would not exclude those of the West. He would maintain, that there ought to be no restrictions on the imports of any of our colonies—that it would be an injury, as well to the colonies as to the mother country, and that therefore we ought to get rid of them altogether. It should also be recollected, that if the proposed measure gave advantages to the East-India trade which it did not possess before, there were disadvantages under which that trade still laboured, which went to counterbalance them. Ah hon. member had talked of our compact with the West
 458 459
 Mr. Canning  thought, that the best course would be at once to settle the application of this standing order, by referring it to a committee.
 Mr. Canning  said, that if the least part of the lesser statement of the hon. and learned gentleman was much too much, it might be a satisfaction to him to know, that that least part was much more than his majesty's government were informed of.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that seeing the right hon. Secretary for foreign affairs in his place, he wished to ask him a question, founded upon intelligence which had reached him from sources which, if not authentic, were at least entitled to great attention. His information related to alleged occurrences respecting Switzerland, and was a further apparent development of the system of the holy alliance. Notwithstanding all that the Swiss cantons had done to court the favour and avert the anger of the allied powers, by refusing a domicile within their territory to those political refugees who sought an asylum within them
 440
 Mr. Brougham  was ready to give the principal members of his majesty's government some credit for the adoption of more liberal principles respecting trade. He considered the present bill just, necessary, and expedient. He rejoiced in the conversion of ministers to these principles; particularly in the conversion of the fight hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson); and still more in that of the more illustrious convert near him (the chancellor of the exchequer). The former, it was true, had always entertained liberal opinions upon such matters, without acting upon them; but there was no saint in the calendar whose conversion was more marvellous than that of the chancellor of the exchequer. That right hon. gentleman had on a proposition on the subject of free trade, passed to the order of the day. With reference to the standing order, he thought it would be better to refer it to a committee.
 General Gascoyne , in rising to submit a motion "for an Address to his Majesty, praying that he would direct that the warrant of the 6th of March last, be reconsidered, and that payment to Half-pay officers resident in Ireland be paid in British currency," said, he was aware that to induce the Crown to exert its interference in this case, very strong grounds must be laid for such an address. He
 443 l.
 Mr. Abercromby  could not help saying that the House had been placed in a very unpleasant situation in this business. It had been conducted in a manner very unlikely to attain the ends of justice, but much calculated to produce inconvenience and expense to the public. At the suggestion of ministers, all public business had, for a time, given way to this inquiry. At the same time, he hoped the matter would not be allowed to die a natural death, but would henceforth be prosecuted with vigour.
 Mr. Grattan  thought it highly expedient that the House should come to a decision upon this important question as speedily as possible; because, independently of the inconvenience which it occasioned to the House, it was productive of much irritation in Dublin.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  contended, that this order was introduced for the very purpose to which it was now applied; namely, to prevent any new regulation, or any alteration being made in the laws which related to trade, without due notice being given to the parties concerned, so that they might be heard at the bar. The old order applied to regulations respecting foreign trade and the general commercial policy of government; but the new one referred to the regulation of any branch of our domestic trade. There was a bill
 438
 Mr. Hume  said, it had been reported that British cruisers had upon several occasions of late not respected the Greek flag, in the actual blockade of some Turkish ports, and had gone so far as to compel Greek ships to give up English vessels which they had taken in the act of conveying supplies to Turkish forts. He hoped that, at least, the British Government would act an equal part between the Greeks and Turks in the present contest.
 Mr. Money  rose amidst general calls of "question," and proceeded to speak in favour of the original motion, but the impatience of the House rendered the hon. member inaudible.
 Mr. Wilberforce  wished to remind the hon. gentleman who had just spoken, that the motion which he opposed did not call for any decision as to the question of equalization of duties, but was limited to the propriety of referring the subject, for examination to a committee of that House. Some members had rested their resistance to the motion, on the ground that, if, carried into effect, it would produce the ruin of the West-India colonies. To them he would say, "Establish that conclusion in an examination before the com-
 462 463
 Mr. W. Whitmore , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had
 445 s. s. 446 l. l. l.: l. 447 448 449 ad valorem s. 450 451
 Lord Milton  asked, whether it would not be the shorter course at once to give a select committee upon the bill, rather than on the standing order?
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the House ought to take care not to be led away by individual cases, and to neutralize in de-
 444 l., l.
 Colonel Barry  put it to the committee, whether if a Freemason were at the bar
 492
 Mr. D. Browne  thought the disclosure might be very dangerous to Ireland. He really thought the committee had no potter to demand such a disclosure. For himself, he belonged to a society, that of the Freemasons, which would no doubt be considered as a foolish society, but still no power in the country should make him divulge its secrets.
 Mr. K. Douglas  objected to the question being put, and considered the oath of, the Orangemen, as analogous to that of a grand jury, and of the Freemasons, neither of which were asked to be divulged.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought this a very favourable opportunity for undeceiving the witness, and others similarly situated. The chairman ought to inform sir A. B. King, that the oath he had taken was no bar to a reply to the question.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the question was one of great difficulty, as the House had only the choice of inconveniences. He had already stated his decided opinion, that no man could be allowed to plead a voluntary oath as an excuse against answering the questions of any court of justice, much less of the House of Commons. If this were permitted, all inquisitorial power was at an end, since he who wished to resist it need only previously take an path of secresy as to the transactions respecting which he was to be examined. On the other hand, it was equally clear that the House was at liberty to exercise the fullest discretion, upon every question which it was proposed to ask of any witness at their bar. In a court of justice the parties had the right to put any question they chose. The judge had only to determine whether it was a legal one, and if it was he could not refuse to admit it. In that House the case was widely different. There the questions were those of the whole body, though proposed by an individual member: there could be no obligation upon any one to consent to a question being put which he conceived to be irrelevant, immaterial, or in any way inexpedient for the public interest. The real point in discussion therefore was, whether the question was or was not relevant and material to the inquiry; and nothing, that had passed had convinced him it was not. The inquiry related to the conduct of the sheriff, in returning what he is alleged himself to have designated an Orange jury for a political trial; and it could not therefore be denied that it was essential to ascertain what the obligations and principles of the Orange societies were. It made no difference, in his opinion, whether those principles were announced by an oath, or by a watch-word or symbol. Suppose a society formed with an oath the most innocent, expressive, only of general philanthropy, but that the watch-word communicated to the initiated were, "Ye shall bind your king in
 494
 Colonel Barry  denied that it was distinctly in evidence that the sheriff elect was an Orangeman. Unquestionably, voluntary oaths not to disclose the truth ought to be laughed at; but the oaths of Freemasons and Orangemen he was inclined to think ought to be respected. The latter were a body recognized in the London Gazette as having presented a loyal address to the king, which was most graciously received. The pursuit of this mode of inquiry would place conciliation
 495
 Colonel Barry  observed, that the witness had already answered the question, by saying that he did not recollect.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that the difficulty in which the witness was placed arose from his thinking it necessary to answer "Yes," or "No." Now, if the question were so shaped as to put it to the witness whether he recollected from what part of Scripture the words alluded to were taken, he would predict that he would answer, he did not recollect.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  allowed that the House had a perfect right to enforce the answers of witnesses at their bar. He allowed also, that in a court of justice the judge was bound to commit a witness who refused to answer. He by no means wished to estimate the authority of the House at a lower rate than that of a court of justice; but it ought to be recollected, that while they exercised the same authority, they possessed a discretion which a court of justice was not warranted in acting upon. If, however, any member persisted in committing the witness, he would not negative such a vote.
 Mr. Plunkett  admitted that such oaths were already illegal, and that the witness was not justified in refusing to answer the question which had been put to him. But they must all desire if possible not to push the matter to an extremity. All that he wished was, to give the witness the opportunity of making a satisfactory answer. Let him be brought back to the bar, and asked if he recollected from what part of Scripture the tests were taken to which he had alluded.
 Mr. K. Douglas  thought the difficulty might be removed by asking the witness, whether his hesitation arose from his wish not to disclose the signs and symbols of the Orange societies.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, it ought not to be forgotten, that their proceedings on this question would go forth to the world and be criticised. What if it should turn out, that in the whole book of Joshua the Amalekites were not mentioned?
 Mr. Calcraft  thought, that the last answer of the witness was satisfactory, and had relieved the committee from the embarrassment which his refusal had placed them in. He therefore moved, that the chairman should report progress.
 Mr. Wetherell  was of the same opinion. He could not consent to send a man to Newgate for not answering irrelevant questions; questions, which the very order of reference to the committee excluded.
 Mr. Wetherell  felt that it would be beneath the dignity of the House to expostulate with a witness; but perhaps it might be possible for the chairman to intimate to sir A. King the reasons upon which the committee held him bound to answer the question put to him.
 Mr. Canning  said, that the learned member was justified in one sense in what he had stated. The opinion of the committee had been taken that the question must be answered; but not upon the identical question to which the learned member had applied himself. The question; as to which the committee had decided was substantially the same with that pressed by the learned member; but as it was not identically the same, the hon. member for. Dover was entitled to speak to order. As to the merits of the point in discussion, he thought that the committee had a right to demand an answer to its question. In saying this, he took a distinction between the private oath now to be overcome and the legal oath of a grand juror, as to which a question had been raised upon a former evening. His opinion upon the legal oath decidedly was, that even if the House could, it ought not to overrule it; but with respect to the present oath, which was illegal, no doubt, he thought, could be entertained. At the same time, he was bound to suggest to the committee, that although there could be no question of right in the case, yet there might be a question of discretion. He had voted, originally against the going into the committee, because he had foreseen considerable difficulty attaching to the inquiry, not the smallest point by any means of that difficulty being the probability of giving a triumph in the end to one of two conflicting parties: but now there arose a difficulty which he really had not foreseen, for the House was in danger, not of merely giving a triumph, but of making; martyr. A certain, quantity of false reputation, was sure to attach to every man who suffered what might be called a severe calamity; and witness at the bar was certainly not of that party to which he could be disposed to afford countenance under all the circumstances he doubted whether it might not be advisable to allow sir A. King to escape out of the difficulty into
 502
 Mr. Canning  concurred with Mr. Calcraft. He could not but think that a reference to the Old Testament was a very fit way of terminating an evening, in which much difficulty had arisen from misunderstanding a passage therein.
 Mr. Brougham  thought it better to ask the witness again. As the case stood at present, it would go forth to the world, that being asked "whether he refused to answer yes or no," his reply was "distinctly so." He feared that the observation of the right hon. gentleman was very right, as to the injurious effect of giving the witness the merit of martyrdom. What he wished was to give the witness an opportunity of showing his repentance. If, however, the committee were driven to a decisive measure, he should not apprehend so much evil from allowing the witness a crown of martyrdom, as he should from conferring on him the laurel of victory.
 Mr. Brougham  seconded the motion, but with very different feelings. He trusted the committee would never again be placed in such a situation as that from which his hon. friend's motion was to extricate them. He could not, however,
 507
 Mr. Brougham  contended, that he had a right to attribute to the question the authority of the committee as it had even been carried by vote, that notwithstanding the voluntary oath, an answer should be given. He went on to say that he knew of none but legal oaths, and animadverted upon the consequences of allowing the gross, fatal, and most perilous mistake to go abroad, that any other oaths could be protected by the House, and that a regard for the scruples of a tender conscience should be pleaded in support of a mere fanciful pretence to evade testimony, and to give to the mere farce and mockery of solemn and legal oaths. He attributed to the hon. member no blame but that of misjudgment.
 Mr. Brougham.  —I would advise you as a friend, not to act upon that persuasion in a court of justice.
 Mr. Brougham  expressed his regret that the question had been asked which brought the committee to this issue, before other questions had been put on subjects essential to the inquiry But now they were on the issue, there was but one way out of it, and that was through it. He had never in his life heard anything with more surprise and indignation than that which had fallen from the hon. member for Dover, whose conscientious regard for the obligation of an oath—[loud cries of "order," which drowned Mr. Brougham's voice].
 Mr. Brougham  distinguished this oath from that of a grand juror sanctioned by ancient law. It was most absurd to set tip this private obligation as an obstacle to inquiry. He did not say that the oath was illegal: it was not necessary for him to go to that extent: it was sufficient that it was an oath unknown to and unauthorized by law. The committee would disgrace itself for ever if it did not insist upon an answer. If it neglected to do so, all that a man would have to do in future to defeat the purposes of justice would be to take an oath to some other individual to conceal the whole truth. The next step would be for a material witness merely to make a covenant with himself for the same purpose.
 Mr. Grattan  said, the witness had distinctly refuted to answer and the committee, it seemed, were now to debate whether he should or should not have an Opportunity afforded him of escaping from any of the consequences of his refusal. It would be of infinite mischief, if the deputy grand master of the Orange lodges were allowed to go back to Ireland and say that the House had compromised with him.
 Mr. J. Smith  asked, if the House did not insist upon an answer on the present occasion, what would become of their authority oh any future occasion, when a witness before them might refuse to answer a question, by saying that he had taken an oath which precluded him from doing so? They could not in justice visit the delinquent in such a case with punishment, if they allowed the present witness to escape with impunity. He should be very sorry to create any disturbance in Ireland, but he would rather do that than abandon the ancient, acknowledged, and useful privileges of that House.
 Mr. J. Smith  observed, that the question had not been answered.
 Mr. J. Smith,  looking upon the adjournment only as a means of screening the witness from the consequence of his refusal to answer the questions put to him, would take the sense of the committee upon it.
 Mr. Butterworth  replied, that he would go up stairs again, and examine the passage pointed out to him by the right hon. baronet.
 Mr. Butterworth  returned, and said that he had examined the 10th of Joshua, the 19th verse, and found no such passage as that quoted by the hon. baronet [Read, read!]. The verse was as follows:—"And stay ye not, but pursue after your enemies, and smite the hindmost of them; suffer them not to enter into their cities; for the Lord your God hath delivered them into your hand."
 Mr. Butterworth  thought it advisable not to press the matter.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, he had been above stairs to refer, and he had been unable to find the Amalekites mentioned in the book of Joshua [a laugh].
 Mr. Butterworth  said he had no intention to support any system of secret oaths on the contrary, he thought they ought not to be permitted. He had only
 501
 Mr. Butterworth  said, he had interfered because he thought the learned member was not authorised in slating that his question spoke the opinion of all present. He would not pretend to say whether his mind was as enlightened as that of the learned member, but he would say that he had as good a conscience.
 Mr. Butterworth  rose to submit, that the learned gentleman was out of order He was stating the opinion of the committee, which had not been declared. It had not yet been decided in what way the scruples of the witness were to be treated [The witness was directed to withdraw].
 Mr. R. Martin  was clearly of opinion that the question ought to be persevered in, and that the witness ought to be re-
 493
 Mr. Secrety Peel  had he doubt of the right of the House to enforce an answer to the question, but it was a. matter of discretion; and he entreated the to consider that there was on the table, a bill to put an end to secret societies altogether. If the witness believed that the question related to the signs and symbols by which the members of the Orange societies were known to one another, it seemed unnecessary to press him to answer.
 Mr. Peel  said, it now appeared, that the words in question were used solely;, as signs by which Orangemen knew each other, and were not at all relevant to the inquiry before them. He wished that the witness's answers might be clearly understood; because, although he would be most strenuous in supporting the right of the House to commit, yet it was a discretionary right. He would never vote that the a witness should be committed for not answering a question not necessary for the purpose of the inquiry; and as this related only to signs and tokens, it could not be necessary.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that it was too late to proceed further in the inquiry that night. They had before confined them selves to twelve o'clock, and it was now near two.
 Sir G. Hill  said, that nothing had yet been stated by the witness to warrant the conclusion that the text referred to was part of the ceremony of making an Orange-man.
 Sir G. Hill  objected to the inference which the right hon. baronet wished to draw from the opinion of the chief-justice.
 Mr. Scarlett  thought it was clearly unnecessary to go into the question of the
 503
 Sir J. Newport  insisted, that the sense of the committee had been taken upon the point.
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that the simple question for the committee to decide was, whether the House were prepared to abandon their inquisitorial functions, and to proclaim impunity to all those who having taken illegal of secrecy, refused to answer questions put to them at the bar of the House? Let the committee recollect how persons of less rank than the individual who had been under examination would be treated in a court of justice if they so conducted themselves. And, was it rights that any man should dare to withstand the superior authority of Parliament?
 Sir J Newport  wished the question to be put, because it had been said, that the lord-mayor elect of Dublin was an Orangeman, and it was most material to learn whether he had or had not been present at the reading of a passage, which recommended the rooting out of the Amalekites.
 Sir J. Newport  contended that the oath ought not to stand in the way of a judicial inquiry. The House had greater powers than a court of justice; and if the oath could not there be set up as an excuse for silence, it could not be so used here.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he would not pry into the secrets of that foolish society, of which the hon. gentleman bad avowed himself a member, but he would persevere in the question be had put. If such oaths were to stand in the way of inquiry, there might thus be an end put to the due administration of justice.
 Sir J. Newport  would not press the question, if it were not material to show that portions of scripture were read, inculcating upon one set of men the fitness of rooting out another. [The witness was again called in.]
 Sir John Newport  then read an opinion of the lord-chief-justice of Ireland, that if the oath of secrecy formed part of the obligation of an Orangeman, his duty would be not to keep but to break it, as, under it, the ends of justice might be frustrated.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the objections to the relevancy of the question, to whatever right they might be entitled in; any, other respect, could not be applied now. They had not been discovered until the witness had refused to answer. So convinced was he of the importance of compelling the witness to answer, that he would take the sense of the committee, although he should stand alone in doing go.
 Sir J. Newport  repeated, that the only matter for the committee to decide upon was, whether they would allow a witness to refuse to answer a question, on the ground that, by the Obligation of an oath, he was precluded from doing so?
 Sir. J. Newport  referred the hon. gentleman to the 10th chapter of Joshua, the 19th verse, in which the Israelites were exhorted to root out the Amalekites.
 Sir J. Newport  begged to say, before the witness was again called in, that he decidedly objected to any other question than this:—Whether, on consideration, he adhered to the answer which he had given? To ask him any other question would be to put an end to the authority and dignity of the House. He believed those hon. gentlemen who thought the peace of Ireland would be best consulted by not pressing this matter were much mistaken.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he wished to call the attention of the House to this question. The committee had decided, by a majority of 72 to 19, that it was not desirable to press a question which the witness would refuse to answer, as being under the obligation of an oath not to disclose. The question now put was just leading to a similar discussion to that of Friday, and taking the House over the same ground. His opinion was, that the question ought not to be put; because he did not think it at all pertinent to the inquiry before the committee. Undoubtedly, if the question was shown to be necessary, it was one which the House had a right to put, and to enforce an answer; or to take those steps which, were usual on such occasions; but; if the committee should be of opinion that the question was not necessary, it ought hot to allow it to be put, and the less so, as it must lead to a result than which nothing could be less calculated to tranquillize Ireland. Nothing, in his opinion, could tend less to tranquillize that country than the sending the witness at the bar to Newgate. The right hon. baronet wished to know what were the secret signs and symbols of distinction between one particular denomination of Orangemen and another. But the right hon. baronet had not shown how the answer to that question, if it were answered, could bear upon the inquiry. If it was put for the purpose of tending to, suppress such societies, it was unnecessary; because there was a bill then in progress through the House by which all societies, having secret signs and symbols, and secret meetings, were to be declared illegal. It could not be necessary for showing what was the conduct of the grand jury or the sheriff, because there were other means by which the right hon. baronet could come at information on those points, which were really the only points to which the committee ought to direct its attention. It was for these reasons that he was anxious the House should decide now, that the question was one which ought not to be put.
 Sir J. Newport  thought it was of the
 511 512
 Mr. Calcraft  said, be had not moved the adjournment on Friday with any view to get rid of the question put to the witness. Upon what grounds the House supported his motion he would not say, but his own was not, that any restriction should be put to questions which hon. members might deem relevant to the inquiry. As to the question now before the House, he did not see exactly how it bore upon the inquiry; but if his right hon. friend thought it important, he would not object to its being put, and he thought if put, that the House should teach the witness, that no voluntary obligations entered into before-hand could prevent their enforcing an answer.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he did not rise to
 513 514
 Mr. Abercromby  thought that, whether with reference to the character and dignity of that House, or to the present state of Ireland, the question now before it was one of the most pertinent that the wit of man could devise. Here was an inquiry into the conduct of the sheriff for partiality in selecting an Orange jury. That the sheriff must have been aware what the effect of a trial by such a jury; would be, was obvious; for he was proved to have said—"I have got an Orange; panel in my pocket." What was an Orangeman, and what were his principles, were the most natural questions in the: world to ask after this. And yet, the moment that question was asked, they were to be stopped and told that the question was not relevant! If this was not a question pertinent to the inquiry, he was at a loss to know what was. Would the House consent to allow an excuse for not answering, which would not be tolerated by any court of justice in the country? Would they, who were superior to all courts of justice, stop in their inquiry for the sake of truckling to Orangemen? Would they allow some of the heads of that party to go back m triumph to Dublin, after having set at defiance the rules and orders of that House? That this would be the case there was no doubt, if the House did hot enforce its orders. And by whom would these men be met in triumph on their arrival in Dublin? By those very men, for the payment of whose large, salaries the House had voted such considerable sums this session. If the House was to tolerate this, it was as well to let the Orangeman speak out. Let them say as they felt, "We will be good and loyal subjects, as long as you allow us to rule Ireland as we please," It was quite absurd to think of stopping in their inquiry, after having gone so far. It was worse than pusillanimous language to say, "we do not wish to give a triumph to any party." That House in the discharge of its important trust, ought not to consider which party might triumph, but which party
 515
 Mr. Pelham  said, that after what had taken place on Friday, the House, he thought, was precluded from granting the indulgence solicited.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  wished to state, very shortly, what the grounds were upon which he meant to found the vote he should give. If he had no doubt in his own mind as to whether or not the power of the House should be exerted, if the question were repeated, to compel an answer to such question, and it were
 516 517
 Mr. Brougham  confessed he could much have wished that his right hon. friend, before he had entangled the House in the difficulty of a new question, had waited till the preceding question had been repeated; that question, which had already been proposed, and which after some dispute the House had resolved should be put to the witness, but which, in spite of their almost unanimous resolution, the witness still pertinaciously and contumaciously refused to answer. He said this, because, under submission, it did appear to him, that before they extended their inquiry to any other particular, it was absolutely necessary for the House—(if it wished to retain even the shadow of a power which hitherto it had always been thought to possess—the power of compelling answers to questions put from the chair)—that it should first have an answer to the question which had been put to this witness. But this was the only difference (a difference on the mere point of postponement) between his right hon. friend and himself. Of the question itself, as proposed by the right hon. baronet, there could scarcely be two opinions; and yet it had been adverted to as irrelevant and inexpedient. But, who could seriously doubt of the relevancy of that question? And it was now too late to ask whether or he it was expedient, for it had been put, and the
 518
 Colonel Barry  rose to order. The learned gentleman was really assuming too much. It had, indeed, been stated in one part of the evidence which had been given at the bar, that the sheriff had packed an Orange jury; but this assertion was in another part denied.
 Mr. Brougham  resumed. He was quite sure that the right hon. gentleman, who had hitherto conducted this inquiry with great fairness as well as acuteness and ability, had suffered himself to depart from that course in the present instance; for surely he would see the absolute impossibility of arguing one part of a case, which must, of necessity, be interlocutory, if he (Mr. B.) was to be confined to that which could be strictly held as proved; because, as yet, there was no decision of the House upon the subject of the inquiry. He was not attempting to prejudice any party. He was not prejudging (God forbid that he should prejudge) the sheriff of Dublin. He was putting the case hypothetically only. He contended that there stood at that moment, upon the minutes of the House, certain evidence which went in one certain direction. Let it not be said that he was asserting, that the sheriff had actually, and of truth, packed this grand jury; but he did assert, that the House was in possession of evidence to show that the sheriff came into a certain room, and said, "I have a good Orange panel in my pocket." And this testimony he must be allowed to say was not contradicted; for, as to the attempt which had been made to refute it at the bar, it was really such a total failure as he had never before witnessed. [Cries of "Order, order."]
 Mr. Plunkett , in rising, as he felt compelled to do, to order, was really anxious only to recall his learned friend to the course of argument which he had been just before so ably and properly pursuing. For his learned friend to enter further into the merits of the defence, was in fact to anticipate the case which would be afterwards to be submitted to the House, on the result of the whole evidence.
 Mr. Brougham  felt obliged to his learned friend for the suggestion, and could assure him, that he had been dragged most unwittingly into the statement he was making He knew, however, that the House was agreed with him upon this part of the evidence—that the sheriff was alleged to have said, and with tokens of satisfaction, "I have got an Orange panel in my pocket." Now, the committee were to pursue the inquiry, not as to whether the sheriff really said, "I have got an Orange panel in my pocket," but whether he did or did not pack this grand jury? But packing a grand jury might be the result of his having in his pocket an Orange panel, or it might not. The result of such a panel, again, in the sheriff's pocket, might have been the polluting of the very source of justice. It would depend on further evidence, to be adduced at the bar, what meaning they were to give, in short, to the words imputed to the sheriff. It would depend on that, whether that admission of which the sheriff was said to have bragged, "that he had this Orange panel about him," amounted to a declaration of his having polluted the sources of justice, or to any brag at all. For aught that he at present knew to the contrary, the result of the House's probing to the bottom the meaning of this Orange panel declaration, might be, that the sheriff would come out quite clear from the investigation; but, until the House had examined into this matter by more evidence, he must say, that they were totally unable to pursue the principal inquiry with any chance of being enabled to put a rational construction on the evidence adduced already. The question not yet answered had been declared on the other side of the House to be improper. And why? Because the sheriff was an Orangeman, The right hon. secretary for Ireland had observed, triumphing as much in his supposed victory over the right hon. baronet as the sheriff had exulted in the Orange panel in his pocket, that the question in relation to the Orange oath could not be a relevant one, because—and it was the oddest of all reasons—the sheriff himself was not an Orangeman. And then there was a cheer on the right hon. gentleman's side of the House. "You must first prove" said the right hon. gentleman, "that the sheriff is conversant with the signs, and symbols of the Orange association before you ask sir
 520 ultima ratio 521 veni, vidi, vici. 522
 Mr. Wynn  admitted, that great incon-
 523
 Sir J. Newport  expressed his acquiescence in this suggestion.
 Colonel Barry  said, it would be fair to put the question to the witness at once in the way now suggested, rather than lead him on into any unnecessary predicament.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he wished for the present to postpone the question.
 Colonel Barry  objected to the postponement of the question.
 Lord Milton  thought the right hon. colonel was going too fast when he objected to the course of proceeding which the right hon. baronet intended to pursue. In point of form, the question had not yet been put.
 Mr. Croker  was of opinion, that any question which had not been put from the chair might be withdrawn.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if a question suggested by a member were put from the chair, it certainly could not be withdrawn, because it then became a motion; but, in the present case, the question had only been suggested by the right hon. baronet, and therefore he had a right to withdraw it if he pleased.
 Colonel Barry  said, the committee must be aware that throughout the inquiry, questions had been permitted to be put by individuals, instead of being formally proposed through the chair. The question which the right hon. baronet wished to withdraw had been entered on the minutes, It could not be expunged without the consent of the committee.
 Mr. Croker  suggested, as the only means of getting rid of the difficulty, that some honourable member should move that the question be now put.
 Mr. Abercromby  thought the committee would be acting very arbitrarily if they declared that,  nolens volens,
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he could not help thinking the motion just made a very extraordinary one. The argument of the
 524
 Colonel Barry  said, that if there were any absurdity in the motion he had proposed, he was not responsible for it. He had taken up the suggestion of the hon. secretary for the admiralty.
 Mr. Wynn  objected to such a motion as nugatory, because, if it were determined that the question should not be now put, such a decision would be no bar to putting it half an hour hence, when the circumstances might be materially altered. It would be more regular to allow the hon. member to withdraw the question.
 Mr. T. Wilson  contended, that the question could not be regularly withdrawn without the permission of the committee.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he apprehended no hon. member had the right of calling upon him to put any particular question. Now, he did not choose to put this question at present, and nobody could compel him to put it. It was perfectly competent to him to examine the witness in his own manner, and it was for himself alone to determine hereafter, whether it might not be expedient to put this question.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that if his gallant friend persisted in his motion, he should certainly assist the right; hon. baronet in opposing it. He objected to any question being put for the purpose of extorting disclosures as to indifferent symbols or signs adopted by the Orange men; but if the right hon. bart. had been informed that there were any verses from Scripture relating to extermination read to the party taking the oath, he should not consider this an indifferent matter, and he should not therefore object to putting any question relative to such-passages.
 Mr. Bankes  suggested that it would be
 525
 Mr. Brougham  said, it was material that the committee should pause a little, to consider in what position they now stood. The witness had on two occasions openly contemned the authority of the House. When he was called back the second time, and asked whether he would answer the question put by the committee, he told them distinctly that he would not. The question now at issue between the committee and the witness was, whether they or the witness should prevail? It was said that the question which he had twice contumaciously refused to answer had been answered; and, if this were so, then he (Mr. B.) would admit that the victory, such as it was, had been gained by the committee. But, what was the answer which had been at length obtained? The witness declared that no passages in Scripture were read, except with reference to the signs and symbols by which Orangemen might know each other; as if a thing could not be at once a sign, and a pledge; as if a watch-word might not be also a pledge, and a pledge so much the more fatal, as it would operate in the double capacity of a rallying cry and an obligation. How had the witness answered the question, whether he recollected the part of Scripture from which these verses were taken the object of the question was, to ascertain where the passage was to be found, and the answer of the witness was marvellously definite, precise, and explicit. The committee called upon the witness to point out the particular part of the Scriptures in which the passage was to be found, and the witness facetiously referred them to the Old Testament. The committee had ample space to expatiate in. The passage might be in Genesis or in Malachi; it might set forth that Abraham begat; Isaac, and Isaac, begat Jacob; or it might, be a passage recommending us to exterminate our enemies, root and branch, so that man, woman, nor suckling, might survive. The witness was called upon to point put a particular, part of the Scriptures, and he referred them to all the books of the Old Testament—Apocraphy, he supposed, and all. Was there ever a more degrading mockery of the dignity and privileges of that House? It was as gross a mockery, as if the witness had been asked "How many Orangeman are there?"
 526
 Sir J. Newport  then moved, that the following question be put by the chair man to the witness:—"In what book, chapter, and verses of the Old Testament are those passages to be found which are read to an Orangeman at his initiation?"
 Mr. Bankes  objected to any thing which appeared like an unnecessary interference with a man's conscience.
 Mr. J. Williams  contended, that the question was not merely relevant, but absolutely necessary to the further prosecution of the inquiry.
 Mr. Brougham  then addressed the House. He wished, he said, that he could comprehend the motives which had led hon. members to the decision which had just been anounced. He was afraid that the real ground on which many members objected to pressing the last question upon the witness, was a regard to the religious and conscientious-scruples which he professed to feel He was afraid that many gentlemen, from what they thought a laudable, but from, what he must ever deem a mistaken notion—from an error in judgment, and not from any deliberate wish to cherish secret associations and illegal oaths—had, by, their vote of that night, given their sanction to a practice which, if allowed to. continue, would cut up religion by the roots, and render the administering of, oaths in judicial proceedings perfectly nugatory. The oaths which the witness had taken were a mere mockery, and ought to have, no obligation; they were an irreligious, not a religious ceremony they were to be discountenanced, not countenanced, by every man who loved religion and respected law. Such was, his own deliberate opinion. Such, too, he would, venture to say, would be the opinion of every judge who should have occasion to deliver an opinion upon this most serious subject. He grieved that there should be any gentleman in that House who could not eradicate from
 527 528 529
 Mr. Bankes  objected to this question being put.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the present question was the natural result of a previous answer given by the witness himself. If such interruption was sanctioned, it was a mockery to proceed further in that more than mock inquiry. Every step they were taking only led to deeper humiliation. For his part, as he clearly saw the determination of the majority, he should not trouble himself or the committee by dividing.
 Mr. Hutchinson  acquiesced in every observation of his learned friend. The king's ministers had much to answer for to Ireland and the empire, for the course they had taken that night. They had sacrificed the marquis Wellesley and the Irish government to the Orange association. They had allowed the inquiry to take the most comprehensive scope, until it actually arrived at that point on which it was of essential importance that the fullest information should be imparted. What an effect it must produce on the peace of Ireland, when the great body of its population were told, as the decision of that night would tell them, that their rights, the dignity of the House of Commons, and the principles of justice, were sacrificed to the Orange faction. After what had passed, it would be worse than useless to proceed further. He should, therefore, move, "That the chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again that day six months."
 Mr. Peel  said, he should not be betrayed by the invective which the hon. gentleman had put forth into a defence of government at an inappropriate time.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if ministers persevered in refusing to press the witness, they treated the attorney-general for Ireland most unfairly; since that learned gentleman stood, upon his own admission, convicted of being in the wrong, unless he showed that the sheriff of Dublin had packed the jury. Government, by the course they were taking, were manifestly endeavouring to prevent the elucidation
 531
 Mr. S. Rice  deeply regretted the resolution of the House, which shut out from the inquiry the evidence which was necessary to bring it to a rational conclusion. At the same time, he thought that to close the investigation abruptly, would be unjust to the sheriff of Dublin, and disgraceful to the character of parliament.
 Mr. Grattan  wished his hon. friend to withdraw his motion. Ministers were not acting handsomely; but, to put an end to the inquiry upon the sudden would produce great mischief in Ireland.
 Mr. Peel  said, that if his right hon. friend had no more witnesses to call in defence of the sheriff, he would vote for the adjournment proposed. If the right hon. gentleman had farther witnesses to call, he would vote against that motion.
 Colonel Barry  said, that if the House wished, at the present point, to put an end to the investigation, he should feel perfectly satisfied with the manner in which the sheriff of Dublin had come out of it; but, if any ulterior proceeding was meant to be founded upon the evidence which had been given, he should feel it his duty to call further witnesses.
 Mr. Calcraft  observed, that the House could give no pledge as to an ulterior proceeding. As any member might move such a proceeding, no pledge could be of any value unless given with all the members of the House present. At that moment, even the hon. baronet who had moved for the inquiry was not in his place. He thought no one could suppose that the hon. member for Cork, by his motion, had meant to put an extinguisher upon the proceeding altogether.
 Mr. Hume  insisted, that he had a right to ask the purport, though the decree of the committee had precluded the question as to the particular verse or chapter. What objection could any man have to state the general tendency of the passages, unless they were of a character which he wished to conceal? Might not their purport be to hang all the Roman Catholics? By a concealment of the fact, he had a right to presume that these suppressed passages did convey such an import. And on his conscience he believed they did.
 Mr. H. Dawson  deprecated these attacks upon the character of such a large and respectable body of the Irish nation as the Orangemen. He never belonged to that association, but if the obligation of an oath were removed, he would become an Orangeman to-morrow. He admired them for their principles and their conduct, and he was convinced that to their exertions Great Britain would have to look for the preservation of Ireland to the empire. And yet it was the fashion of the day to visit with every term of reproach that body. He defied any man to say that there was in the evidence of sir A. B. King anything that did not reflect credit on his character, he was a man of character, and a conspicuous member of the Dublin corporation; but, because that corporation was Orange, epithets of disgrace were lavished on it by members on the other side of the House.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  complained of the
 534
 Sir J. Newport  said he would have passed over this discussion in silence, but, for what had fallen from an hon. gentleman vested with an official character; that hon. gent, had stated, that on the loyalty of the Orangemen the Mouse was to depend for the safety of Ireland. But the hon. gentleman did not stop there: he had gone into a defence of the corporation of Dublin. But did the hon. gentleman forget the report of the commissioners of accounts, charging that very corporation with gross malversation, and the report of the committee above stairs adopting the same view, and charging them with embezzlement to the amount of 30,000 l.
 Mr. Peel  thought that the question pro posed had been in substance overruled already. He advised that it should be put generally, "Is there any tendency to hostility in the words used towards tiny other nation?"
 Mr. Hume  said, that his object was, to ascertain the nature of these institutions. To screen the witness from answering the question was a denial of justice; and as ministers clearly made themselves parties in the case, he charged them with participation in a design to suppress the truth. There could be no hope of peace for. Ireland until Orangemen, as a body, should be destroyed—till faction should be rooted out of that unhappy land. He could not conceive what ministers would be at. All he could make of it was, that this, was part of the same spirit of compromise which they had so often had reason to complain. The secretary for Ireland had a bill upon the table to put down Orange associations as unlawful. The under secretary said, that but for the oath he would be an Orangeman. How were they to reconcile these different assertions? He was determined to take the sense of the House upon the question.
 Mr. Grattan  said, that if the under secretary really held these opinions which he professed, he was not fit for his situation. It was clear from what had passed at the bar, that Orangeman ought to be put down.
 Mr. Wetherell  objected to the question, as being put too generally.
 Mr. Hume  thought it strange that the learned gentleman should allow a general question to be put with respect to hostility and object to its being put with respect to peace.
 Mr. Scarlett  defended the propriety of putting the question.
 Mr. Ellice  suggested to the right hon. secretary, that it would be more consistent with the manly and candid course which he had hitherto adopted, to postpone the further consideration of the question till this day six months. He would ask him whether he did not think that such a course would be more likely to promote the peace and happiness of Ireland.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought he might be allowed to express some surprise at the hon. member's coming down, after having Comfortably dined, and asking him whether he had not better follow a course which had already been twice decided against by the House. He would now, in his turn, ask, whether the questions which had been, put were not trifling with the House? whether it had not already been decided, that the witness ought not to be compelled to give any further answers.
 Mr. Ellice  begged to assure the right hon. gentleman that he had divided upon both the motions. The result of the first had induced him to think the cause was hopeless; that of the second had convinced him it was so. His majesty's government, at first opposed to the inquiry, had in its progress thrown every obstacle in the way, conformably to that system of compromise winch was their distinguishing character. It was because he saw that to proceed further would be an unprofitable waste of time, that he had called upon the right hon. gentle-
 536
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that the minority, of which he formed one, were of opinion, that the object and the political effect of the Orange associations were injurious to the public peace of Ireland. The majority thought otherwise. If that latter opinion were well founded, they ought not to object to the inquiry. But, as long as the witness at the bar was permitted, upon every frivolous pretext, to suppress his answer, no good purpose could be accomplished by continuing the questions.
 Mr. Jones  thought, that whatever might be the opinion as to the conduct of the sheriff, there was no one who must not be satisfied that no imputation could attach to the attorneys-general for Ireland; He thought it would be better to post pone for six months any further progress in the inquiry.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that if the House could not get at the truth of the case, it would be better to put an end to the inquiry, and he hoped that the hon. gentleman would move to that effect. But this he would say, that "come what may," to use the words of the right hon. secretary, if a witness at the bar of that House would not disclose what he must know, he should go instantly to Newgate, who ever he might be.
 Mr. Jones  adopted the suggestion, and; moved, "That the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again on that day six months."
 Mr. J. Smith  said, he could not help expressing how deeply disappointed he felt. When the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) was appointed to his present situation, although he differed from him on many political questions, yet, considering his great talents he rejoiced at his appointment, because he thought it the harbinger of a wise and liberal policy towards Ireland. Those hopes he was sorry to say, had not been realised. But, although little good would result from this investigation, it would still trusted, be productive of some; for every man who had attended to it, must be, satisfied that the administration of justice in that country required revision. He
 537
 Mr. Jones  thought the sooner the Subject was consigned to oblivion the better.
 Mr. Canning  said, that having objected originally to the inquiry foreseeing the state in which the House would he placed by it, he did not feel himself at liberty to interfere in the present question, and should therefore decline giving any vote at all.
 Colonel Barry  was perfectly satisfied with the case of the sheriff as it then stood. If the hon. baronet were voted out of the chair, he was willing to concur in the motion; but if it was intended to found any ulterior proceeding upon the evidence before the House, then he must examine to the end. If he did otherwise, he felt he should be giving up his duty; and therefore, with all the inclination he had to save himself and the House from fatigue, unless the proceedings were to be altogether closed, he must proceed.
 Mr. Daly  recommended his hon. friend to rest the case where it stood, and take the chance of any ulterior proceeding. It was competent for any member to originate any motion from the evidence; but he did not anticipate that such a step would be taken.
 Colonel Barry  concurred.
 Mr. Calcraft , alluding to the opinion he had previously expressed in the course of the evening, did not think he was precluded by it from recommending the hon. colonel to examine all his evidence now. Let not the hon. member flatter himself that the case could rest here. He should be Sorry if it were now closed under any such impression. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) must excuse him if he looked upon his last declaration as a most singular one. With great submission, he thought he was bound to make up his mind to Ay or No. The right hon. gentleman (excellent, prophet!) had foreseen the situation in which the House would be placed. He (Mr. Calcraft) had also foreseen it; blithe defied any man to say that the House had not received much useful information from the inquiry. He should oppose the motion if it went to shut out all further inquiry. When the whole case was before the House, it could form an opinion; and now that there was but one more witness to examine, it would be absurd to stop short. He entreated gentlemen to pause before they gave a
 538
 Mr. Canning  said, if the case had been closed, he should not have felt himself at liberty to say that he would withhold his vote. The hon. gentleman had misunderstood him, if he supposed he had intended to withdraw from the discussion, when the case should come for the decision of the House. But, if those who conducted the case on either side thought fit to terminate it prematurely, he would not, by any vote of his, preclude such a mode of disposing of it.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that as the inquiry had originated with the hon. baronet, the member for Westminster, who was absent from indisposition, the case ought not to be closed without his consent.
 Mr. Bennet  said, the investigation had fully answered his expectations. It appeared from the evidence of one of the witnesses, a police magistrate (major Sirr), that a great deal of tampering existed in Ireland, which ought not to be tolerated. With respect to the sheriff of Dublin, the practice of striking juries evidently called for correction. And, with respect to that House, the investigation clearly displayed the system which was at work both within and without it.
 Mr. S. Wortley  thought the hon. member for Coventry deserved the thanks of the country for having brought the subject under the notice of parliament. Certainly some alteration was necessary in these laws; and he believed the Combination act, whenever it had been appealed to, had constantly recoiled on the masters; therefore the sooner it was got rid of the better. He should have felt much more inclination to vote for the present bill, if it had only gone to the repeal of existing laws; but it went a great deal further, as it contained many new provisions which ought to be seriously considered before the bill was passed.
 Lord Stanley  intreated the hon. member for Coventry not to press on this bill. In. his opinion, it ought to go to a committee above stairs, there to be thoroughly examined, and then stand over until next session; which would give the manufacturing districts an opportunity of understanding all the provisions which it Was intended to propose. It would be a hazardous thing to do away at one sweep with forty-four statutes, without much previous consideration and inquiry. He had read the bill, but he had not read the pamphlet which the hon. member for Coventry had disseminated with it.
 Mr. Huskisson  was bound in Justice to say, that the hon. member for Coventry had acted in a manner quite consistent with the course which he had stated, at the commencement of the session, it was his intention to pursue. The hon. member had then said, that he would introduce the bill, and afterwards leave it to committee up stairs. He concurred with others in thinking, that the House was under an obligation to the hon. member for agitating this subject, and bringing it under the notice of the House. He had, it appeared, drawn up a kind of history of the minute, absurd, ridiculous and mischievous regulations, which had, from time to time, been introduced into the Statute book on the subject of interference
 549
 Mr. Philips  said, his objection to, fend bill was, that it contained a number of restrictions between workmen and employers which would be injurious to both parties. The regulations were not applicable to existing circumstances, and would produce an effect exactly the reverse of that which the hon. member for Coventry intended.
 Mr. Calcraft  then moved, that the chairman do lay before the House the minutes of evidence. The minutes were accordingly presented, ordered to lie on the table and to be printed, and the witnesses discharged from attendance.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he did not know whether he was regular or no, hut he could not refrain from taking that opportunity of expressing, what he believed to be also the universal feeling of the House, his sense of the impartiality and ability with which the hon. baronet (sir R. Heron) had filled the chair, during the inquiry which had just concluded [Hear, hear!].
 Mr. Gabbett  was asked, "Had you been left to your own discretion would you have committed for the capital offence?" to which he replied, "It is impossible for me to answer directly that question otherwise than thus, that I certainly, if it had been left entirely to myself should have required the whole of the informations to be laid before me to exercise my judgment upon them?—It certainly would appear from that, that the whole had not been;—my impression was, that the whole had been—that impression was created partly by my haying looked at a brief, which by accident is here, and now in my possession, in which the dates of informations taken before
 557
 Colonel Barry  said, that being aware of the inconvenience that would result from the prolongation of the inquiry, perceiving too the dislike of the House to go on with it, and feeling that the case of the high sheriff was so strong that it needed no further evidence to support it, was willing to decline calling any more witnesses. He was convinced that the result of the inquiry was to clear the high sheriff from any charge of improper conduct.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that nothing could be further from his intention than countenancing the system of fictitious voters in Ireland. He would go as far as any member to prevent such an abuse; but he must object to the bringing on of such a question in the then thin state of the House, where there were not more than a dozen Irish members present. The measure embraced a principle calculated to excite great discontent in Ireland. He should have no objection to the bill going
 563
 Mr. Dominick Browne,  in rising to move the committal of this bill, admitted that the task lay upon him to prove Joint Tenancy injurious, though it was notoriously so, as the object of the bill was to discourage that tenure.—The system of joint tenancy was, he said, very ancient in Ireland, and very fit perhaps to protect clans of husbandmen against wild beasts, or more barbarous clans of hunting savages, but totally unlit for people emerged from a primitive state of society, living Under fixed laws and institutions in an integral part of the British empire. Under this system, from ten to five hundred acres were let to from two tenants to one hundred jointly; every one of whom was responsible for the rent of all the rest, as well as his own. They held the land in common, making a new division of the arable every year or two. The pasture was always undivided. They generally paid a rack-rent, and after they had built their huts without mortar, chimney, or window, all swore to 40 s 561 562 bonâ fide
 Mr. Dugdale  said, the hon. member for Coventry had asserted that his measure was generally approved of. Now, he also had received communications on the subject, and from them it appeared that those, who would be affected by the measure were much alarmed at it.
 Mr. Littleton  presented a petition from the Coal and Iron masters of Dudley, against a bill brought in by the hon. member for Coventry to repeal the different acts relating to the Combination of Workmen, and for settling disputes between Masters and Journeymen. He gave credit to the hon. gentleman for his motives; but it was a measure full of minute and vexatious regulations, which no man connected with the manufacturing districts could possibly approve of. The hon. member for Coventry talked of the advantages which would accrue from referring his bill to a committee above stairs. It was unquestionably desirable that the whole subject, and not such a bill as the hon. member had concocted, should be referred to the consideration of a select committee, to decide what portion of them it might appear necessary to repeal, and what part of them the interest of the manufacturers required to be preserved. Before that committee, all parties should be heard. The hon. member might perhaps say, that, the bill would go through a committee in the regular, course: but it was a different thing to submit the bill to a committee composed of gentlemen whose experience, whose habits, and whose abilities, rendered them peculiarly fit to decide on it, and to lay it before a committee in the ordinary course off business, merely to consider its details. He now gave the hon. member notice, that
 547
 Mr. Littleton  said, he had no objection to the immortality which the hon. member for Coventry promised himself, in consequence of his bill and pamphlet. For the benefit of those gentlemen who did not know where to find the latter, he begged to state that it was on sale at No. 24, Bridge-street, Westminster.
 Colonel Trench  thought the principle of the bill most excellent. One of the great evils of Ireland was the splitting the land into so many small divisions for the purpose of creating votes. The great number of electors, which was a blessing in this country, was a curse in Ireland; for it only exposed the peasantry, in many large districts, to bribery and corruption, to drunkenness and to every kind of disorder. His only objection to the bill would be, that it did not go far enough. He wished for the introduction of a clause by which leases in common might be entirely put an end to.
 Mr. J. Daly  denied that the measure would have the effect of diminishing the number of Catholic voters, and pointed out the evils arising from the system of joint-tenancy in Ireland.
 Mr. Grattan  did not think that the bill went to disqualify any part of the Roman Catholics, but to establish the system of election by  bonâ fide
 Mr. P. Moore  was glad the hon. gentleman had stated his objections to the bill, because, from the moment he had brought it in, he had endeavoured to provoke the most extended inquiry. Although the bill had been printed five weeks, he had not asked the opinion of any hon. member with respect to it; neither did he intend to do so for some time to come. As to a further postponement of the measure, he had no objection to that course, if it were necessary for the purpose of procuring information. He begged leave to ask, from whom the petitions against the bill came? They came from the master-manufacturers, who were opposed to those classes for whose security he wished to provide; namely, the operative workmen. When the hon. member came forward with his hundreds who petitioned against the bill, he must be allowed to point to his millions who were in favour of it. The master manufacturers had infinitely more trouble, under the existing law, than they could possibly have under that which he proposed. He believed that nineteen-twentieths of the poor-rates were occasioned by the pinchings which the rich manufacturers inflicted on the wages of their workmen. If the operative manufacturers were properly paid, the products of agriculture and of the loom would prosper, and there would be little or no poor-rates at all. If one farthing a day were added to the wages of the 5,000,000 of the manufacturers who were employed in this country, it would amount to a total of 2,040,000 l. 548
 Mr. P. Moore  said, he knew the value of the communications which the hon. member had received better than the hon. gentleman himself did. His correspondents told the hon. gentleman, the truth, but not the whole truth. He was ready to stake his life, his name and his character, that if the bill were adopted it would afford the greatest possible relief to the
 550
 Mr. R. Martin  opposed the bill, the object of which is to prevent joint-tenants, in Ireland, from voting for freeholds in which they had severally less than a 40 s.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that if the hon. member did not intend to press the bill this session, he would not object to going into the committee; but if he did intend to press it, he would divide the House.
 Mr. Lennard  said, that he had little to say in introducing his motion for leave to bring in a bill "To alter and amend the Laws relating to the Interment of the Remains of Persons  felo de se, felo de se felo de se, felo de se
 Mr. Denman  said, that as he knew it was the opinion of some honourable members that it would be necessary to submit certain resolutions founded on the evidence which had been given at the bar, it was of importance it should be understood, that the further prosecution of the
 560
 Mr. T. Ellis  expressed his concurrence in the principle of the bill. He mentioned an instance in which a farm of the value of 15 l.
 Sir G. Hill  approved of the bill, but the suggestion of the hon. member for Cork was so fair, that he could not but concur with it.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, he could give no information to the House, with respect to any call for compensation, in consequence of this bill. He thought the general principle of themeasure was good. His noble friend had had the goodness to communicate to him the general principle of the bill, and he, at present, certainly saw no material objection to it. So far as the measure had been explained to him, it appeared calculated to produce great public benefit. Ordered to be printed.
 Sir J. Newport  fully concurred in the opinion of the hon. member who spoke last. Nothing had brought greater misery upon Ireland than the subdivision of land among such a multitude of tenants.
 Lord Althorp  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the subject of the Recovery of Small Debts. He wished, he said, to be allowed to take up a few minutes of the time of the House in stating what the substance of that report was; for, from the number of letters which he had received from all parts of the country on the subject, it was evident that a great and general anxiety prevailed respecting it. Nor was it at all a matter of surprise to him that the question should excite so much public interest; seeing that the present state of the law amounted to nothing less than an absolute denial of justice to almost all the creditors in the country with regard to debts due to them under the value of 15 l. l. 544 545 546
 Mr. Philips  explained, that he under-
 569
 Mr. Bennet  said, that although the character of the present master justified all that had been said with respect to him, it afforded no argument in favour of the system. For, although the present master was not guilty of any violation of life duty, did it follow that his predecessors never had been, or that his successors never would be so? Such a power was always liable to abuse. At every assize in the country, the greatest abuses took place in the constitution of special juries; for be believed that private interest, and even open canvas, went a great way in the construction of those juries. He held in his hand a report of a committee of the common council of London, in 1817. It stated, that out of 485 names, out of which all the special jurors were selected for the city of London, 126 were not householders in the city, and therefore, by law not qualified to serve; of the remaining 259, 60 were householders, who, in the modern sense of the term, were termed merchants, while 171 were tradesmen. In a case of libel, too, it appeared, that the solicitor for the Treasury had written to a person in the Secondaries'-office, respecting the nomination of the jury. In his opinion, it had been clearly made out that the master had the power of packing a jury if he pleased. That was a system which was opposed to common sense and justice, and ought not to be permitted to continue.
 The Attorney General  said, he collected from what the hon. member who presented the petition had stated, that the petitioner made no complaint with respect to the conduct of the master of the Crown-office as regarded the particular case of the petitioner, but merely against the general mode of nominating special juries. It was not, as he understood, pretended, that the petitioner supposed that any hardship would result to him from the conduct of the master. If the hon. member should think proper to bring the general question under the consideration of the House, he would give it all the attention which it deserved. He did not, however, hesitate to state, that, in his opinion, no alteration which the hon. member might propose to introduce could improve the present system of nominating special juries. The hon. member had declared, that the present mode of nominating special juries was
 570
 Mr. Philips  repelled the insinuations of the hon. gentleman as disadvantageous to the character of the master of the Crown-office [Cries of "No, no!"]. Did not the hon. gentleman say, that the master of the Crown-office must be more than man, if he were not occasionally biased in his conduct by other considerations than the strict discharge of his duty? Was not that a most unworthy insinuation? It was a supposition directly at variance with the tenour of that honourable individual's life. In the first place, as one proof of the inaccuracy of the hon. member's information, the emoluments of the situation to which the hon. member had referred were only 1,000 l. l. l. l., l., l. 568
 Mr. Hobhouse  considered it extremely improper, that any person, having the selection of juries in his power, should hold an office which was dependent on the Crown. The hon. and learned attorney had challenged any member to point out a case in which the government had interfered to procure the selection of a jury. He certainly could not mention any case in which it had been proved that the government had been guilty of such disgraceful conduct, but he apprehended that it would not be difficult to prove, that government had sent particular cases to be tried before juries, who they thought would probably convict the defendant. He would wish the attorney-general to declare upon his honour, whether government had not sent his honourable colleague, sir Francis Burdett, to be tried in Leicester, because it was thought that the jury there were more likely to return a verdict of guilty than a London jury? Now, that the question respecting the nomination of special juries had been mooted in that House, the country would expect something to be
 * 573
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that if this measure had been proposed to the House inconsequence of a petition from the great body of the English Roman Catholics, he should have considered the petition of such a body entitled to great attention; but it appeared to be a mere project of the noble lord himself, who hardly knew whether it would be considered as a boon or not. The admission of English Roman Catholics to the magistracy might, under due limitations, be desirable; but he could not give his consent to extending the elective franchise to that body.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he had, on a former occasion, expressed himself not unwilling to consent to a measure for taking into consideration the propriety of placing the Roman Catholics of England on the same footing as those of Ireland. Consistently with that declaration, therefore, he felt himself bound to admit the first proposition of the noble lord for leave to bring in the bill. He made this concession, not merely in consistence with that declaration, but because he felt it to be reasonable that the measure should at least be fairly considered. The noble lord had adverted to three points, in which the Roman Catholics of England stood in a different situation from those of Ireland; the elective franchise, the magistracy, and admission to office. With regard to the elective; franchise, he allowed at once that he was willing to admit the English Catholic to that privilege. He had always considered the distinction taken by Mr. Burke between the elective franchise and admission to office, as sound and judicious. In a speech on the subject of the Catholic claims, Mr. Burke said, that if the Roman Catholics were admitted to the right of voting for members of parliament, it did not necessarily follow that they should be admitted to office. He must observe, that the noble lord would find some difficulty in placing the Roman Catholics of England and Scotland on the same footing, because by the act of Union the Roman Catholics of Scotland could not exercise the elective franchise. He was disposed, after mature consideration, to admit the Roman Catholics of England to the same privileges with regard to voting, as the Roman Catholics of Ireland; but he should strenuously resist their being themselves elected. In this respect they would stand-in the same situation as the clergy who were qualified to elect though they were disqualified from sitting in that
 588
 Mr. Maberly  rose to move, "That a select committtee be appointed to inquire into the present mode of taxing Malt and Beer separately, and whether it would not be expedient to collect the same amount on Malt alone." He hoped the House would grant a committee to examine the whole subject. As the law at present stood, the duty on malt amounted to 2 d, d. d., d. 593 l., l., l. l. s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  opposed the motion. As to the saving in the expense of collection, the hon. member was mistaken: 280,000 l. 594 l. pro tanto
 Mr. Benelt,  of Wilts, could not give his support to the motion in its present shape. He would vote for the appointment of a select committee to inquire generally into the subject of the duties on beer and malt, He hailed with considerable satisfaction the statement of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that as soon as the revenue afforded the means, he would relieve the country from the beer duties. No greater benefit could be conferred on the people. It would afford extensive relief; and would not relieve one class at the expense of another.
 Colonel Wood  opposed the motion, be cause the good which it proposed, in reducing the price of beer was insignificant while the evil to the farmer would be considerable. The great consumption of beer during the harvest rendered it an. important article in the expenses of an agriculturist, and to impose an additional tax on malt would be to increase his burthens, already too heavy.
 Mr. Wodehouse  deprecated the proposed alteration in the beer duties, at a moment when such extensive regulations were about to be introduced into the distillery laws. He proceeded to compare the, consumption of malt in the year 1791, 1792, and 1793, with that in the years 1821, 1822, and 1823, and insisted, that it was greater at the former than the latter period. He could not support the motion.
 Mr. Western  thought, a reduction of the duties on beer and malt necessary. He would, however, have it made on the aggregate revenue thence derived; it ought not to be done by taking a tax off one article and placing it on another. Ht would be
 597
 Mr. Byng  expressed his dissent from the motion, on the ground that no description of persons would be benefitted by it, while the agriculturists would be in a worse situation if it were adopted.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  saw no reason why 1,200,000 beer-drinking families of arti-
 598 s. s.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  supported the motion, by which he thought the revenue would be much benefitted.
 Mr. Wetherell  entered into certain explanations relative to the principles of this bill, reserving to a future stage of the discussion those objections which he might have to its details. He maintained that it would place the Catholics of England higher in point of privilege than those of Ireland, as there was no test and corporation act in Ireland. He contended that property, as property, did not confer the elective franchise, and, after adverting to the prevalence of the practice of splitting freeholds in Ireland, he expressed his opinion, that because the elective franchise had been given to Catholics in Ireland, it formed no ground for communicating the same privilege to those in England.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought, that his hon. friend, the mover; had shown the tax on beer to be unequal, and that one class was exempted from it, while another was obliged to pay. He had shown, also, that the diminution in the expense of collecting this tax would assist the revenue. The hon. member regretted that this had been made a question between the agricultural arid other classes; but, even if it were true that the tax had an unequal operation, in this respect also the sooner it was equalized the better. If the duty paid ought to attach on all persons consuming beer, it ought to attach equally. The motion should have his hearty support, because it went to accomplish that object.
 Lord Nugent  said, that under the present circumstances, the motion for leave to bring in the bill not being opposed, he should not trouble the House with more than a very few observations in reply. His hon. friend, the member for the University of Cambridge, seemed to rest his principal objection on the fact of the Roman Catholics themselves not having been consulted on this measure. His hon. friend had described it as a mere project of his. As such, he wished it to be understood. But he was quite sure that his hon. friend would not be prepared to resist it on this ground alone. If the measure could be shewn to be founded in justice, he would call on him to do an act of justice on any man's project. Nor was it an objection to state, that it had not been moved at the instance or upon the prayer of those who were principally interested in the result. His hon. and learned friend, the member for Oxford, had, he thought, singularly mistaken the object, as he had stated it, of his bill. His hon. and learned friend had apprehended, that the effect of it would be to place the British Catholics higher in point of privilege than those of Ireland. He was surprised at this objection from one of the acute and correct mind of his hon.
 592
 Lord Nugent  rose and said:—Sir; the object of the bill that I move for leave to bring in, is to equalize the laws affecting the Roman Catholics, by placing those of Great Britain in the same situation with respect to civil rights and franchises as those of Ireland. I wish, in the discussion of it, to separate it as widely as possible from what is called the question of Catholic Claims. There are, no doubt, many topics in common between the two questions; some of these topics, I should be disposed to say, are in my opinion, not among the least strong by which this measure might be supported. But these, for many reasons, I wish to avoid. In order to narrow the question, and to place my will upon its own simple and more obvious, and, perhaps to some persons, less questionable grounds. At the same time, Sir, I would not for the world be misunderstood. I would not, even if I had the power so to deceive the House, be insincere enough to disavow the spirit in which I offer to you the proposition with which I shall conclude, nor attempt to disguise from the House, that I do it under the influence of the self-same motives which have always influenced me in the support of that great measure. Nay, further; if I could for one moment bring myself to believe that the discussion of this question could in any, the remotest degree, prejudice or interfere with that great; object, believing that object as I do to be essential, not less to the interests and honour of England, than to the last hopes of peace and happiness for Ireland, I would, with whatever regret, abandon for the present, and should feel myself justified in abandoning, those far lesser benefits which I now geek for the Catholics of Great Britain. Sir, I should do the British Catholics the greatest. Wrong if I did not say that I know that in this feeling with regard to Ireland, I am seconded, I am anticipated by them. I must, in justice to them, I had almost said in justice to myself, make this; farther declaration. What I now propose to you, I propose, not only not at their instance, but without even having consulted their sentiments or wishes upon it. I have carefully, I have painfully abstained from communicating with them upon it, because I know their high and honourable feeling; because I know that feeling as they do, how strong are their claims to a full and undistinguishing
 575 576 577 578 them 579 580 581 582 583 majority 584 585 586
 Mr. H. Bankes  felt himself bound, in fairness to the noble lord, to state how far be could agree with him. The elective franchise ought, in his opinion, never to have been granted to the Catholics of Ireland, and he could never consent to grant it to the Roman Catholics of England. He could never consent to admit persons differing so essentially in opinions, effecting the vital interests of the constitution, to any share of political power. It should be recollected that that most injudicious measure, which admitted the Catholics of Ireland to the elective franchise, was passed in a parliament entirely Irish. To the subdivision of freeholds, and the system of fictitious voting, much of the present misery of Ireland was to be attributed. The measure of the noble lord went too far; for it would, in effect, lead to the repeal of those bulwarks of the constitution, the Corporation and Test acts. If the admission of the Roman Catholics of England to the magistracy could be effected, without interfering with the great principles to which he had adverted, it might be a desirable measure.
 Mr. Bright  said, he considered the present case to be one which powerfully called for inquiry. It rested on its own merits; no charge was made against any individual officer or juror. The attorney-general had said, that the system had existed in its present state for a century. Now, it so happened, that for more than forty years the abuses of the system had been loudly complained of. So long ago as the year 1777, Mr. Horne Tooke had given a description of the mode of selecting special juries. The observations of that gentleman were so remarkable, that he would read them to the House:—"The Master began, but as I looked over the book, I desired him to inform me how I should know, whether he did take the first forty-eight special jurymen that came, or not; and what mark or description or qualification there was in the book, to distinguish a special from a common juryman? He told me, to my great surprise, that there was no rule by which he took them. Why then how can I judge? You must go by some method. What is your method? At last the method was this: that when he came to a man a woollen-draper, silversmith, a merchant (if merchant was opposite to his name), of course he was a special juryman; but a woollen-draper, silversmith, &c. he said that there were persons who were working-men of those trades, and there wee others in a situation of life fit to be taken. How then did he distinguish? No otherwise than this if he personally knew them to be men in reputable circumstances, he said, he took them; if he did hot know them, he parsed them by. Now, gentlemen; what follows from this? But this is not all. The sheriff's Officer stands by, the solicitor of the Treasury, his clerk, and so forth; arid whilst the names are taken, if a name which they do not like occurs and turns up, the Sheriff's officer says, 'O, Sir, he
 571 572 *
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he certainly? should vote for the measure proposed by the noble lord. At the same time, he could not avoid saying, that the only motion he had ever heard which had common sense for its basis, relative to the Catholics, since he had had the honour of a sent in parliament, was one made by general Thornton, which nobody at the time sup-
 589
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  seconded the motion, and said, that when he considered the character of the body to whom this motion related, the noble blood which flowed in their veins, their well-known respectability, and their loyalty, he thought a very strong case indeed should be made out to prevent them from enjoying the same privileges as were possessed by their fellow-subjects of the same persuasion in Ireland.
 Mr. Monck  said, that before the malt-tax was imposed, the poor shopkeeper or farmer paid 20 s.; s.
 Mr. J. Williams  said, that however respectable the master of the Crown-office might be, his character was no answer to the case which had been made out for inquiry. The complaint was against the system; and so long as that system continued' uncorrected, no fair trial could be had in a case where the Crown was a party on the one hand, and an obnoxious individual on the other. If no one else took up the subject, he would call the attention of the House to it.
 Mr. Hume  adverted to the improper manner in which juries were appointed in the court of Exchequer. He had found upon inquiry, that individuals actually obtained their whole income from the pay which they received for serving as jurors in that court. He understood that if a juror should venture to give a verdict against the Crown, he would never again be summoned.
 Mr. Hume  said he held in his hand a petition which he deemed of great importance, and to which he called the most serious attention of the House. He should first state the contents of the petition, and next comment upon the allegations it contained. The petition was as follows:— 564 565
 Mr. Hume  said, that the second paragraph in this petition contained a statement which affected the trial by jury; for if the
 566 l. pro con, 567
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the estimate of 280,000 l. 596
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, that his hon. friend had not the slightest intention, when he adverted to this inconvenient mode of striking a jury, to cast any imputation upon the present master, than whom there could not be a more respectable man, or one better adapted to fill his situation with credit and honour. His object was to show the existence of a practice liable, in worse hands than the present master, to be most dangerously abused. He knew nothing of the facts connected with the petitioner's case, or of his prosecution by the Constitutional Association, which was an absurd and improper confederacy; but he had heard complaints reiterated against this mode of striking juries. There ought to be an inquiry into the practice, for the purpose of having it altered; and this was the best time to institute it, when the office was worthily filled. No possible harm could result from an inquiry; and it was most desirable that the special, like the petty juries, should be drawn out of a box indifferently, although even then it should be ascertained that the names were impartially placed in the box.
 Mr. Creevey  said, he had had a long ac quaintance with Mr. Lushington, who was a most honourable man, and one who might be said to have a chivalrous disregard of private interest. But he had admitted, that if he pleased he might select the jury. It was time, therefore, that a practice not abused by him, but liable to the greatest abuse hereafter, should be regulated. His hon. friend had not cast the slightest reproach upon Mr. Lushington.
 Mr. W. Smith  was glad to hear that no privileges were to be conceded to the Catholics of England which were refused to Protestant Dissenters, though he could not but consider the provisions which subjected Protestant Dissenters to the Test and Corporation acts, as a most unjust and unmerited stigma on, that body. He was satisfied, however that the time was not far distant when Roman Catholics would be admitted to seats in that House. The hon. member adverted to a speech of the late marquis of Londonderry, delivered in the year 1821, in which he declared, that the only point in which he declared, that the only point in which the congress of Vienna unanimously concurred was, the total abolition of all religious distinctions
 590
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, it appeared to him that the question before the House in no way affected the general question of the Catholic claims. He, for himself, would support that general question under every possible circumstance; he would support it whether brought forward by friends or by foes—as a partial or as an ample, as a conditional or as an unconditional measure; but it seemed to him that no vote given whichever way it went, upon the present occasion, pledged the giver to to any specific course, when that general question should be discussed. As to the point of magistracy, he would offer nothing. It seemed to be agreed on all hands, that no difficulty would be made to that arrangement, unless some difficulty should arise in the detail; and he believed that, from the manner in which the bill would be framed, no such difficulty would arise. But, with respect, to the question of the elective franchise, he was compelled to protest against the doctrine which had; been laid down upon that point. That the exclusion of qualified Catholic freeholders from the exercise of the elective franchise was part of the fundamental law, or of the constitutional principle of the kingdom, he utterly denied. In what part of the constitution was that exclusion to be found? And, as to the fundamental law, why the Catholics of Ireland had, continued to exercise the elective franchise long after the exclusion of Catholics from the Houses of parliament; and the Cat he lies of England bad not been deprived of the elective franchise until the statutes of the 7th or 8th of William 3rd—more than twenty years after the exclusion of Catholics from parliament in England. Fundamental law. It was perfectly, well known that the statute of William 3rd had passed upon the spur of the moment under immediate apprehension from the
 * 591
 Sir J. Mackintosh  denied, that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had at all met the clear statement of his hon. friend. The objections of the right hon. gentleman were founded on certain apprehensions, the solidity of which could be best
 595
 Sir J. Newport  said, that by returns which he held in his hand, it appeared that from 1752 to 1808 the consumption of beer in Ireland had increased from 59,000 to 426,000 barrels annually. During that period nearly the whole of the beer had been imported from England. In 1809, a different system, had been adopted. The brewer was left free from restriction, and the consequence was, that the number of barrels imported fell to 38,000; the revenue was doubled in the article of malt, the consumption was greatly increased, and it was of home production instead of foreign, importation. No illustration could be more complete than this of the expediency of taking off all restrictions from trade.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the wish so often expressed by honourable members to encourage private brewing, would be defeated by this measure, if it should be carried. He had always maintained that the landed interest paid an undue proportion of taxes. If, therefore, an opportunity offered of lightening in some degree the weight which oppressed them, he thought it was very fair to do so. When the House looked to the amount of poor-rates paid by the farmer, he hoped it would think he was entitled to some consideration' on the present occasion.
 Mr. Attwood  presented a petition, numerously signed, from the Manual Weavers of the town, and neighbourhood of Stockport, complaining of great distress, and petitioning the House for relief. The distress which the petitioners suffered, arose from the extremely
 599
 Mr. Philips  said, that after all the inquiry ho had made with respect, to the condition of the weavers of Lancashire at the present, moment, he was inclined to think that they had greatly exaggerated, the statement of their distresses. The cotton-spinners' wages were, it was true, very low; but the price of provisions was so extremely moderate, that they could live comfortably on those wages. That was undoubtedly the case when he was last in Lancashire; and the fact was proved by the reduction of the poor-rates, as well as by the reduced number of applications for private charity. With respect to machinery, he would now re-assert what he had formerly staffed namely,
 600
 Mr. Maxwell  differed from those who were of opinion that a low rate of wages was serviceable to a country. The reverse he conceived to be the fact; be-cause, from the circumstance of low wages, a great degree of crime and discontent were engendered; and when that was the case, great expense must be incurred in the prosecution and punishment of offenders. He trusted that the right hon. gentleman at the head of the Board of Trade would pay some attention to this petition. The population of the country, whether agricultural or manufacturing, should, he thought, be protected as much as possible from the effects of machinery; since it was that population by whom the taxes were paid.
 Mr. Philips  instanced the fact, that the wages of the artisan were more liberal where machinery was used than where it was not used, as a proof that its introduction was not hurtful to the weaver.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, a very useful publication on the subject of machinery, written by Mr. Cobbett, had been extensively circulated throughout the manufacturing counties, and would, he hoped, effect a change of opinion no. Jess extensive; Those who had not read that work ought; to read it; because there was no publication, which, for a rational and practical view of the subject, could be compared with it. He had learned, more, from it than from any publication of the kind ho had ever read.
 Mr. Maxwell  presented a petition of a similar nature from certain inhabitants of Middlesex. He observed, that if wages were higher, the working-classes would be able to consume a greater quantity of produce of every kind; and they must all acknowledge, that to devise a mode by which the consumption of produce would be extended, was a great desideratum.
 Mr. Calcraft  objected to the clause, which, he contended, would throw the whole power of appointing the vestry into the hands of the incumbent, who would, no doubt, be careful to return in' his list no individual who was hostile to his own interests, or over whom he had not in some way a control. He was himself favourable to the principle of this bill. He considered it calculated to do much good in Ireland; but he feared that as at present constructed, the machinery was too complicated for it ever to work with effect.
 Mr. Dennis Browne  objected to the bill altogether, and to this clause in particular.
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  strongly protested against such an arrangement as quite inapplicable to Ireland. There was a total want of machinery in the south and southwest parts of Ireland to carry it into effect. In some parishes there was not a resident magistrate. Besides, the clause would be open to great abuse, for any considerable lay-impropriator of tithes might from influence create vestry-commissioners, and check-commissioners from his own partisans, and thus collect tithes to what amount he pleased.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  said, that in the county of Cork, which was five times as large as the county which the hon. baronet represented, such a measure was totally impracticable. It was monstrous to press, a measure designed to be of general application, with the fact that in two-thirds of Ireland it could not be acted upon.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, be approved of the suggestion. As to the proprietors of agistment land, it was obviously their interest not to have anything to do with the appointment of valuers.
 Mr. S. Rice  thought the contribution to the country rate might be made the test of the qualification of the vestrymen.
 Colonel Barry  said, there was one part of the clause to which he must object; namely, that part which gave to the commissioners the power of raising the composition one-third above the present produce of the living. He should move to omit that part of the clause when they arrived at it.
 Mr. D. Browne  strongly opposed the clause. It was said that the tithes were
 608
 Colonel Barry  then moved to leave out the particular words of the clause to which he had called the attention of the committee.
 Mr. Wynn  was against the amendment. Cases of modus might arise, in which the discretionary power might be necessary to enable the commissioners to act fairly by all parties.
 Lord Folkestone  said, the clergy would have a manifest advantage, as the composition would be fixed upon the payments made in a deteriorated currency, and the payments now would be in a currency restored to its proper standard and value.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought the commissioners should have a discretion. He did not say whether it should be to the extent of one-third or not.
 Colonel Barry  thought, that instead of a benefit to the people and clergy of Ire-land, the bill, if passed with such a provision, would prove a curse to both. He would give to the clergy what they now had, but no more. He could not agree to the amendment.
 Mr. Wetherell  objected to the principle of universal suffrage in the election of arbitrators. The vestrymen ought to be chosen by a portion of the tithe payers. He thought it would be better to take this clause into further consideration on the recommitment of the bill.
 Mr. Ricardo  observed that, by the present bill, land improved within the last 21 years was not to be tithable for such improvement; but as an adjustment was to take place every year, suppose a man possessed of poor land, to improve that land within one year after the passing this bill, he would become liable to pay upon his improved land, while his neighbour, having been so fortunate as to improve a year sooner, would be liable to no such burthen. This would be to give one person a preference, ruinous in its effect, to another. The bill might be favourable to Ireland, but it would be most injurious to the English agriculturist, as it would enable the Irish grower to grow corn cheap, and he might glut the English market, to the ruin of the English grower, unless a protecting duty was imposed on Irish corn.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, his proposition was, not that the use of machinery was prejudicial to persons employed in one particular manufacture, but to the working classes generally. It was the means of throwing additional labour into the market, and thus the demand for labour, generally, was diminished.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that much information might, undoubtedly, be derived from Mr. Cobbett's publication, because that writer explained the use of machinery in such a way as to render the subject perfectly clear. He was not, however, altogether satisfied with the reasoning contained in that pamphlet; because it was evident, that the extensive use of machinery, by throwing a large portion of labour into the market, while, on the other hand, there might not be a corresponding increase of demand for it, must, in some degree, operate prejudicially to the working classes. But still he would not tolerate any law to prevent the use of machinery. The question was,—if they gave up a system which enabled them to undersell in the foreign market, would other nations refrain from pursuing it? Certainly not. They were therefore bound, for their own interest, to continue it. Gentlemen ought, however, to inculcate this truth on the minds of the working classes—that the value of labour, like the value of other things, depended on the relative proportion of supply and demand. If the supply of labour were greater than could be employed, then the people must be miserable. But the people had the remedy in their own hands. A little forethought, a little prudence (which probably they would exert, if they were not made such machines of by the poor-laws), a little of that caution which the better educated felt it necessary to use, would enable them to improve their situation.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the argument just introduced by the hon. member for Portarlington, was one quite beside the present question; though it would apply to any measure introduced with a view of assisting agriculture in any part of the empire. If the ground now laid by the hon. gentleman was sufficient to justify the imposing countervailing duties on Irish produce, a wide field would indeed be opened for imposing such duties, not only in Ireland, but in various part of this country. How would the hon. gentleman reconcile his proposition with the various instances which existed in Yorkshire and Lincolnshire, in particular, of parishes relieved from the operation of the tithe system by special acts of parliament. According to the hon. gentleman's doctrine, we must have Custom-houses erected on the borders of those counties, and countervailing duties imposed, to keep up this beautiful system of equilibrium of price. He must at once strongly protest against this proposition of countervailing duties
 607
 Mr. Goulburn  contended, that it was necessary the commissioners should have a discretionary power; and that if, on comparing the average of the last three or four years, they should find the sum received by the clergyman not equal to the value of the tithe, they should have the power to fix a higher composition. Suppose a clergyman, from motives of humanity towards his parishioners, not to have taken so much for tithe as he was justly entitled to, and suppose the incumbent of the adjoining parish to be a man of different character, was it to be said, that in such opposite cases the commissioners were to have no discretionary power, but that the kindness of the one party should be taken advantage of for the purpose of deteriorating his property, whilst the severity of the other should operate in a directly contrary manner? It was not intended that the commissioners should be bound to give one-third; it was to be left to them to act as the justice of the case required. He was convinced, that, if a contrary course was adopted, this measure would, instead of proving a conciliatory one, increase discontent, as the parishes in which the Composition was fixed at the higher rate would, on comparison with others more favourably situated, complain, and with reason, of being hardly dealt with. He did not consider that this discretionary power could be lodged any where better than with the commissioners, and therefore he would support the clause.
 Mr. Goulburn  said that the mischiefs which the hon. gentleman seemed to apprehend as likely to arise from too much influence being given to the clergyman were guarded against by the subsequent clause, by which any individual who considered his name as improperly omitted in the list returned by the clergyman, might, on application, to a magistrate, have it inserted, and become eligible to be appointed a vestry-man, having previously qualified himself, by complying with the other provisions of the bill.
 Mr. Goulburn  moved the order of the day, for going into a committee to consider further of this bill. On the question being put, "That the Speaker do now leave the chair,"
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he was anxious to remove any doubts which might have arisen in the minds of his right hon. friend, as to any intention existing of extending the operations of this bill to England. He could assure his right hon. friend, that no such intention had ever been entertained by any one. He would, however, put an end to the possibility of such a fear existing any longer; for he would now propose that the preamble to the bill should be postponed; and before the House was called on again to consider it, he would propose such an alteration in that part of the bill, as should completely guard the tithe system of this country from being affected by the measure now under consideration, should it be adopted by the House.
 Mr. Goulburn  joined with the hon. member in requesting the aid of the Irish members in the consideration of this measure. It was only by their aid that it could be rendered beneficial to Ireland. The hon. gentleman had said, that by the operation of this bill the incomes of the clergy would be enormously increased. The hon. member could not have read t he bill, or he would not have ventured on such an assertion; for there was no compulsion; the whole was voluntary; the bill did not go to impose any new burthens on the people.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that to meet the wishes of his right hon. friend, he would propose that the following words be inserted—"That it shall and may be lawful, where it shall appear to the commissioners that the average is not the fair value of the living, for the said commissioners to add to such average any sum not exceeding one-third of the amount."
 Mr. Abercromby  suggested, as an improvement, that in the cases of parishes where arrears existed, and where, consequently, under the present clause, the whole of the tithe payers might be excluded from taking part in the vestry, the payment of the last year's arrears might be deemed sufficient to qualify for admission to the vestry.
 Mr. Daly  supported the amendment. The average would, he said, always be taken upon 1816, 1817, and 1818, which were all high years, and would give a very high average.
 Mr. Benett  thought that if the commissioners were to have the power of raising some livings, they ought also, if they thought fit, to have the power of reducing others.
 Mr. Benett , of Wilts, though a considerable English grower himself, did not complain of the present measure, because it might, by chance, be beneficial to Ireland, at a small expense to England.
 Mr. Curwen  was convinced, that if a> minimum of wages were established, it would produce great mischief. Four on five years ago, when several petitions similar to the present were laid before the House, a committee was appointed to consider of them. Delegates from, the operative manufacturers, and other individuals conversant with the subject, were then examined; and he believed not one person attended who did not go away perfectly satisfied that such a system: would be most mischievous Amongst the members of the committee, there was not the slightest difference of opinion.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  objected to the measure altogether, as inordinately increasing the revenues of the clergy, and particularly in Ireland, where the hierarchy was enormously overpaid, consider-
 609
 Mr. R. Martin  observed, that the House had forced the government into this measure, and he had been a party in that force. He was decidedly of opinion, that the clergy were entitled to a fair compensation for whatever rights or property the bill might go to deprive them of; and unless that compensation was given, he was convinced the measure would never pass the other House of Parliament.
 Mr. Peel  thought the argument of the
 606
 Sir G. Hill  thought the clause was intended rather as a defence for the parishioners than as an advantage to the clergyman; for by it the commissioners were restrained from going beyond one third.
 Sir H. Parnell  undertook to say, that in the part of Ireland with which he was acquainted, this measure would be hailed as a benefit. Although it might not be fit for that portion of the country which the right hon. gentleman had named, yet there were two other provinces which it would suit.
 Sir J. Coffin  said, that if the use machinery were abolished, two-thirds of the manufacturers of this country would be reduced to starvation.
 Sir J. Nicholl  observed, that considering who were the framers of the present measure, he could not view it as an attack upon Tithes in the character of church property; more especially as the Composition was proposed to be applied to all tithes, and it was well known that a large portion of them, particularly in Ireland, belonged to laymen. At the same time, he must remark, that great caution was to be used in interfering with the rights of property of any description. Doctrines extremely alarming were set' afloat in the world. An equitable adjustment of all contracts was to be proposed. Principles in regard to church property had been stated, directly asserting that it belonged to the public, and was disposeable for the use of the state. Such assertions could only be considered as tending to measures of manifest spoliation and plunder. But a fair composition or commutation for tithes, did not necessarily bear that character. Plans of that sort had been proposed at different periods by some enlightened statesmen. Yet it should be recollected, that those plans, however specious at the outset, had always proved abortive, and difficulties of detail had always presented themselves which were found to be insurmountable.—After these experiments had been repeatedly tried, and considering that the evils from the tithe system in this part of the United Kingdom, were not of a mag-
 603 604
 Sir J. Newport  was ready to give the clergyman as much as he now received, but no more.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  begged to state, that at the suggestion of many able friends of the agricultural interests of the country, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his motion, which stood for Thursday next, on the subject of Agricultural Distress. He was most happy to notice the contrast of circumstances between the present time, when he abandoned his motion, and that in which he gave notice of it. The state of things now afforded a hope of great alleviation, if not the entire extinction of that melancholy state of distress which had so recently involved a large portion of those engaged in the agriculture of the country.
 Lord Ebrington  rose to present the petition of the freeholders and others of the county of Devon, praying for a reform of parliament, and animadverting upon the foreign and domestic disasters which had grown out of the corrupt state of the representation. After
 610
 Lord Ebrington  thought it natural for the hon. baronet not to feel any strong relish for popular opinion, and not to be an advocate for parliamentary reform. But, whatever was the hon. baronet's opinion, he was convinced the House would not so far forget its duty as to attend to his extraordinary proposition. It was, however, competent for the hon. baronet to try the fate of his recommendation by pressing his view of the subject to a division. The other hon. member had remarked, that
 611
 Mr. S. Wortley  rose to order. He said, he was anxious to have it decided, whether the House was to abide by its sessional order or not. In adherence to those orders, the orders of the day ought on Mondays to have precedence.
 Lord Cranborne  also expressed his opinion that the sessional order ought to be adhered to.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  admitted the difficulties in which, the noble lord and the House were placed on this occasion. It must be agreed, that according to a strict adherence to the sessional order, the orders of the day ought to have precedence on that day; but it was well known that there were deviations from the rule by an understanding between members on both sides. He was not in the House when the arrangement to which the noble, lord referred was entered into, but as it was made with those with whom he acted, he would, under the circumstances, consider himself a party to it.
 Lord Cranborne  complained of the inconvenience which would arise from this deviation from the regular practice of the House. For his own part, he feared the delay would be fatal to his bill (the safe of game bill). He should like to hear the decision of the Chair, whether the sessional orders were to have force or not.
 Mr. S. Wortley  again rose to order, and began to point out the inconvenience of a departure from the sessional order, when he was interrupted by
 Mr. Maxwell  begged leave to second the motion, and contended, that the people of Scotland were extremely dissatisfied with the existing system, and claimed of the House that a change should be made. No doubt the support which ministers received in some places was a conscientious support, but in general their friends had displayed credulity rather than discretion. The state of the House of Commons—the feeling of the members who composed it—might be read in the general conduct which they pursued towards the country. The labouring classes were ground down by taxation. The merest necessaries of life paid tribute to the state. The manufacturer was reduced to the lowest rate of wages upon
 622
 Mr. Kennedy  denied, that the proposition of the noble mover involved the subversion of the existing tenures of property
 624
 Lord Binning  entered his protest against the assertion, that the present motion had no connexion with the question of reform in England. The proposition of the, noble lord, with respect to the county re presentation of Scotland, would make a greater change than the adoption of universal suffrage in England. Much had been said about the want of freedom in Scotland; but he would appeal any English gentleman who was at aft acquainted with the state of Scotland, whether he did not consider it a perfectly free country? If the people of Scotland had been dissatisfied with the state of the representation of that country—if they had entertained the same views as the noble lord did on the subject—they would have been forward enough in letting the House know their opinions. But he denied that they wished for the projected: change; and he would not consent to unsettle the whole system of representation in Scotland, for the advantage that might be derived from a few votes at a county election. It was said, that all the members might be elected by persons not residing in Scotland. This was the fact theoretically;—but, practically, it was not the case. There was no part of the empire in which the land was more decidedly in possession of the elective franchise. If the noble lord's statement had been true, it would have been a ground for some v change, but he denied its correctness. The noble lord had stated the fact, that in the county of Lanark there were superiority votes; but he bad not shown how they were connected with the land, Now twenty of these votes belonged to
 639 l.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that at that late hour, although he had originally intended to go into the subject, he should not now discuss it at any length. He admitted, that those who were attached to the English system of representation, could not be favourable to the system of Scotch county representation. But gentlemen would do well to consider whether seeing that such as it was, it was approved of by the people of Scotland, they would do right to force a new system upon them. As it now stood, it was as ancient as the reign of Charles 1st, and had remained unaltered and uncomplained of since the time of the Union of tin two crowns. The lion, and learned member for Knaresborough had spoken of the complaints made by the people of Scotland at the period of the Revolution, and the remedies proposed in the mode of representation; but there was then no subject of complaint but one, and that was, that where the large counties returned two members, the small counties returned the same number. To this sole cause of complaint a remedy was applied, by allowing an additional number of
 641
 Lord Glenorchy  said, he felt he should be wanting in the discharge of his duty, to his country, if he did not express his decided concurrence in the motion of the noble lord. If there had been no petition in favour of the motion, it was because public sentiment had not the organ of county meetings in Scotland; but it was not less true, that the people of that country wanted a full, ample, and equal representation, instead of the system how existing, which was marked by egregious absurdity and injustice [Hear, hear!].
 Sir J. Sebright  stating, that he had been accidentally locked out during the division Had he been in his place, he should have thought himself unworthy of the, seat the had in the House, if he had not given his vote for the motion.
 Lord Cranborne , on moving the second reading pf this bill, observed, that the details of the measure would be best discussed in 'the committee, and respecting them he should therefore reserve himself until that stage arrived. Against the principle of the measure he was not aware that many objections could be made. He referred to the, evidence given before the committee, to show the great quantity of game which was annually disposed of in the London markets. The object of the bill was, to take that supply out of the hands of the poachers, and place it in those of licensed dealers.
 Lord Deerhurst  seconded the amendment. The bill, in his opinion, would increase the number of poachers by as many as there were idle men to be found in each parish in the country. He insisted strongly on the policy of encouraging country gentlemen to live on their estates, by securing to them the amusements to which they were accustomed. Legalizing the sale would have the effect of destroying the game. He would, therefore, resist the bill upon that principle, though he was willing to vote for the correction of the game laws in any salutary way.
 Mr. S. Wortley  expressed himself anxious that some change should be made in the game laws, the first step to which was to legalise the selling of game. No man could doubt but that the markets were abundantly supplied at present; and the effect of the existing law was, to throw that supply into the hands of poachers. He did not mean to contend that poaching would be put an end to by the measure before the House, or by any measure that could be devised; but it was reasonable to expect, that as the risk increased, and the temptation diminished, poaching would diminish also. As to the qualification to kill game, the sooner it was placed upon the system which prevailed in Scotland the better it would be for the country.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he was an advocate for the present measure, though he would allow that he was originally prepossessed against it. He did not imagine that the power of granting licenses for retailing game was given to magistrates for the purpose of patronage, but in only because there were no other, persons in whose hands that power could be so fitly placed. The introduction of the legal proprietor into the market, would  pro tanto
 Sir T. Ackland  rose amidst incessant cries of "question." He expressed his' g sorrow, that the learned member for winchelsea could not give his support to this bill. He trusted, however, that the learned gentleman would not oppose the measure at its present stage, but would wait to see its details after it came from the committee. If he did not then approve of the bill, he could reject it oh the third reading. The existing laws were so: bad, that if the house allowed them to continue for another twelve months, it would be giving its sanction to a system of crime and bloodshed.
 Lord A. Hamilton  then proceeded. He rose, he said, to call the attention of the House to the state of the representa-
 613 614 l. s. 615 fiar 616 617 l. 618 619 620 dominium utile; 
 1. "That it appears, by a certified copy of the roll of freeholders of every county in Scotland, as last made up, laid before this House in 1820, that the total
 621 2. "That, by the same return, it appears that the greatest number of persons having a right to vote in any one county, did not exceed 240, viz. for the county of Fife; and that the smallest number did not exceed 9, viz. for the county of Cromarty. 3. "That it further appears, from the same return, that many of the same persons have a right to vote in several counties, and consequently that the total number of voters for all the counties of Scotland is considerably less than 2,889. 4. "That it further appears to this House, that the right of voting for a representative for a Scotch county depends, not on the possession of the  dominium utile 5. That this House will, early in the next session of parliament, take into its most serious consideration the state of the representation of counties in Scotland, with a view to effect some extension of we number of votes, and to establish some connexion between the right of voting and the landed property of that country."
 Lord A. Hamilton , in reply, took occasion to observe, that the heritors of Scotland who were not represented, were, in every other respect, similar to the yeomanry of England, who were represented in parliament.
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that he stood upon his right to introduce his motion, which appeared first upon the list of notices. He had yielded to the call to order, and would again sit down, if that call were repeated; but he trusted, that unless he said something which the Chair should deem disorderly, no gentleman would interrupt him in the performance of an undoubted right which he was in the act of exercising. He did not mean to disguise from them, that he felt himself placed in an unusual situation. He had already, on three successive occasions, put off his motion for the convenience of the gentlemen opposite. It was understood on those occasions, that he was to have precedence on a future evening. Now, it was obvious that if such arrangements were disregarded, it would be useless to make any such in future. Under the circumstances in which he was placed, he would leave it to the hon. members opposite, whether he ought not to proceed. He had given way before for their convenience, but he could not consent to do so at present.
 Lord A. Hamilton  was about to proceed, when
 Lord A. Hamilton  rose to bring forward his promised motion on the State of this County Representation in Scotland.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  rose to order, and said, that by a standing order of the House, all orders of the day set down for Mondays and Fridays, must be disposed of, before the notices entered upon the book were proceeded upon.
 Mr. Tennyson  supported the amendment in a speech which was inaudible in the gallery, in consequence of the impatience in the House for the question.
 Sir F. Ommanney  thought the petition ought not to be laid on the table. With respect to the alleged sufferings of the petitioners during the war, the House need not be told of the benefits they derived from the maritime expenditure at Torbay, Exeter, and other parts of Devonshire.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he concurred' in what had fallen from his hon. Friend who spoke last, and from the hon. member for Chichester, respecting the system of the game laws. He felt as strongly as they possibly could do not only disapprobation, but an abhorrence, of that system and its principles—if any thing in itself so unprincipled could be said to have any. Any thing which was calculated-to mitigate gate the evils of that system he would hail with the greatest satisfaction, But a specific measure being here proposed for his adoption, he was bound, in the first instance, to inquire—agreeing as he did in all that had been said in reprobation of the old system—whether that which was intended as a substitute for that system was likely to produce the effect which was expected therefrom. Nevertheless, when he looked at the bill, however might approve of the principle on which it proceeded, and whatever Credit for humanity he might give to the noble lord who had brought it forward, he could see nothing in it which entitled it even to the benefit of a doubt in his mind, as to whether he should support it or not. Did gentlemen know what they were about to give their approbation to? Did they know what the bill was Were any persons led away by the cry of "we are about to abolish the game laws" If such there were, to them he would say, that they would not abolish the game laws by passing this bill. They were, indeed, about to preserve the worst parts of the system. Some gentlemen, perhaps, were led away by the cry of "let us legalize the sale of game" But would that be done by the bill? No such thing. He would tell those who were so anxious that the bill should pass, what they were about blindfold to give their sanction to. On of the objections to the present system of game
 647 l. l.
 Mr. Horace Twiss  said, he hoped that, though unconnected with the kingdom of Scotland, he should be pardoned for expressing some opinions on this subject; especially as he had no intention of entering into the details of it, which had really, he thought, been disposed of in a most complete and satisfactory manner by his hon. friend, the worthy baronet near him. The noble lord had proposed a very large and wide change; but the grounds which he had laid, instead of being co-extensive with that project, were all of them narrow and particular. The greatest evil complained of by the noble lord seemed to be the inconvenience said to be sustained from the want of a powers to
 625 626 there 627 as a part of the constitution of the Scottish slate itself. so guaranteed 628 629 by possibility by possibility 630 631 that taste 632 —"each alley has a brother, "And half the platform just reflects the other."
 Mr. J. P. Grant  supported the motion of the noble lord. With reference to the article of the Union which had been so frequently alluded to, he held it to be perfectly clear, that no country could bind its posterity by any stipulation which the circumstances of the moment had created. He was clearly of opinion, that no gentleman who voted for the proposition now before the House, would be bound, in consequence, to support any motion for a reform in the representation
 640
 Mr. Tremayne  said, he had passed through the town during the meeting, and certainly had not witnessed any of that manifestation of zeal which the petition imported. As the noble lord said that four-fifths of the petitioners were freeholders, he would not dissent from that description of the parties, although it was one which otherwise he should have doubted.
 Mr. J. Williams  rose, in the absence of his hon. friend the member for Westminster, {sir F. Burdett), to give notice, that on Thursday the 12th instant, that hon. baronet would submit certain resolutions to the House relative to the late investigation into the conduct of the sheriff of Dublin.
 Mr. P. Moore  asked, whether either of the hon. members who spoke last could contradict the strong facts asserted in the petition, respecting the necessity of a reform of parliament.
 Mr. Newman  said, he was present at the meeting, and could add his testimony to its unanimity and respectability.
 Mr. S. Whitbread  was convinced that the laws respecting game required to be amended. He saw that the offence of poaching had grown with the growth arid strengthened with the strength of these very Jaws which were enacted with the intention, of suppressing it. Those laws, under their present severity, were a disgrace to the national character, and a great cause of the demoralization of the poorer classes.
 Mr. W. Peel  objected to the bill, which, if passed into a law, would confine the possession of game to persons occupying large tracts of country.
 Mr. Poyntz  said, he could not agree with those who thought that the passing of the bill would decrease the quantity of game or increase the number of poachers. The offence of poaching had been carried to a great extent of late years, in consequence of the miserable pittance which labourers had been accustomed to receive for their labour. That class of persons had preferred poaching to being employed for a few shillings a week in breaking stones oh the highways. One reason which would induce him to vote for the present bill, was the severity, he might say the unconstitutional severity, of the existing game laws, which rendered it, in many instances, impossible for magistrates to enforce them. He thought, also, that respectable tradesmen, who possessed the pecuniary means of regaling their friends
 646
 The Speaker  said, that by the sessional, orders certain days were fixed on which orders were to have precedence, and others on which notices had the priority. That regulation was, he well recollected made under a strong protest by several members, as being an infringement upon the privilege of a member, to originate a motion without notice. It was certainly right that the sessional orders should be strict adhered to; but, this session, in consequence of the inquiry into the conduct of the sheriff' of Dublin, several deviations had unavoidably taken place. With respect to the noble lord who was now in possession of the House, it must be presumed that he intended to conclude his speech with a motion; and no amendment to that could be made until it, was before the House.
 The Speaker , who observed, that this was not speaking to a point of order. The hon. member might urge those topics at the conclusion of the noble lord's speech, but not before.
 Sir George Clerk  believed, that the present system of Scotch representation was one with which Scotland was perfectly satisfied; at least, he had himself heard no complaints against it, and he was convinced it would be impossible to make any operative alteration in that system, without entirely changing the municipal law, and the tenure of property throughout the kingdom. He confessed that the extent of copyhold property, or of tenure tantamount to copyhold; was not so great in England as in Scotland; but why was it more anomalous for a copyholder to be without the elective franchise in Scotland than in England, where the principle was; that a man might hold a large estate for 999 years, a term as good as perpetuity, without having a vote for members of parliament, while that privilege was within the exercise of every freeholder of forty shillings year? The noble lord opposite had talked of the subserviency of the Scottish members, and of members returned by "parchment" voters; but if the "parchment" returned members were the subservient party, how happened it that the noble lord, who was decidedly returned by parchment interest, was constantly standing forward in opposition to ministers, while he (Sir G. Clerk), coming from Edinburgh, where the noble lord admitted the voters to be real, usually saw cause to support the measures of government? He denied that there was any man of large copyhold property in Scotland—any man of 10,000 l. 623
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose. He began by complaining of the small number of the gentlemen of England who were present at the discussion of a question of such vital importance, and of the still smaller portion of attention which that question seemed to command. These circumstances had induced him to offer a few remarks upon the arguments of the hon. baronet, and of the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last. He begged leave to remind the House, that the hon. baronet had attempted to couple the present question with the general question of Reform, but that there was not the slightest ground for so doing; seeing that the measure proposed would not pledge any man to vote for any other measure. The hon. baronet had had recourse baronet had had recourse to the usual
 633 634 635 636 in capite. 637 638
 Sir John Shelley  objected to the bill, that it would not only increase the number of poachers, and add to the demoralization of the lower classes, but would tend also to the entire annihilation of the game. He much doubted whether the bill would increase the sale of game; and observed on the great difficulty there would be in keeping the market regularly and fully supplied, as it was not to hue supposed that every gentleman would dispose of his game. He much doubted whether the fair trader would be able, as it was said, to undersell the poacher. How should he, when the latter stole that which the former paid for? He begged to refer honourable members, to the well-known story of the rival broom-sellers The one asked the other, how he could afford to undersell him, since he stole the materials. "Why," replied the other, "I steal mine, ready made." On this principle, he was persuaded the licensed man would not be able to compete with
 645
 Lord Milton  said, he could not help expressing a hope, that the result of the division which had just taken place would be well considered by the whole country; and that in it the inhabitants of Scotland, who take an intent in state of their representation, would see a much nearer prospect of their wishes being' accomplished than some gentlemen who spoke
 644
 Lord Milton  observed, that an erroneous impression had gone abroad with respect to this question, as if it were interesting to Scotland alone. Now, he considered it interesting to the whole united empire. If it were the law and the practice for the Scotch members to confine themselves to subjects of Scotch legislation, the question would in that case exclusively affect Scotland; but as
 642
 Mr. Kennedy  said, he was surprised at the conclusion to which the hon. member who spoke last seemed to have arrived. He certainly did not wish to overload the lord advocate with official duties; but he thought that Scotland had a right to demand, if not his opinion on every case, at least that he should exercise some discretion on matters passing through his office. Scotland was not to be told, because the characters of member of parliament and lord advocate were united in one person, that the duties of one should be unperformed, while the learned lord discharged those of the other. If it was impossible for him to fulfil the functions of both, he should return to Scotland, and another person should fill his situation in that House, and thus leave him at liberty to perform those duties so requisite for the proper administration of justice in Scotland. It had been stated by the hon. member opposite, that low bail had been offered. But, supposing this to be true, what did it prove? Why, that the law had not been properly administered; for, by the law of Scotland, the offence with which Borthwick was charged was not bailable. The hon. member had stated the conduct of Borthwick to have been highly criminal: and yet the lord advocate himself had stated, that it was not a fit case for prosecution, and did not in any way approach to felony. Indeed,
 688
 Lord Binning  said, he rose with much anxiety and solicitude. A near relation: of his was among the parties interested, and he trusted that the House, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, would think him justified in prolonging, for a short time, the discussion. The house would recollect, that when the hon. and learned gentleman opposite brought forward this question last session, the motive imputed to the law-officers of the Crown in Scotland, was  mala fides mala fides 689
 Lord Binning  here asked, in what part of the printed minutes this was to be found?
 Lord Binning  asked whether the his charge by the magistrates could be produced?
 The Lord Advocate  commenced by assuring the house, that the hon. and learned member who had just sat down could not feel greater satisfaction than himself, that the moment had arrived when this question was to be discussed and to be decided. Whatever had been its cause, certain it was that the delay that had already occurred had been most prejudicial to himself Nevertheless, he did not complain of it; he only denied that he had been in any way instrumental in producing it. No man had been more anxious than himself that the whole question should be brought forward as early as possible. He had been much surprised that the papers were not laid upon the table before the end of the last session; and if the hon. and learned gentleman, in what he had said on this point, meant to impute that he had been the occasion of the postponement, it was an error. He had written up from Scotland to the office of the Secretary of State, for an explanation of the fact; and he pad found that on the last day of the last session, the documents would have been brought up, but for the sudden and somewhat unexpected arrival of the usher of the black rod. In reference to the question before the house, he begged its indulgence while he was compelled logo over facts which he had before stated, and to repeat arguments which he had already urged. Of the manner in which the subject was brought forward last year, he had complained at the time. He complained now, and he should never cease to complain. For he had laboured under disadvantages of all kinds, and had not then the information now before the house, and on which he might securely rest his defence. He had not expected that the case of Borthwick would have been brought forward. He had, indeed, at that time one way of escaping from the difficulty he might have declared a fact subsequently avowed by his learned deputy, that he (the lord advocate) had given an opinion against the prosecution. The whole blame would, however, thus have rested on his learned deputy; but as he knew that he (the lord advocate) was officially responsible for the acts of his deputy; as he scorned not to sustain his share of responsibility; and as he was certain that the acts of his learned deputy would bear the strictest inquiry, he had not introduced that important and decisive circumstance. It had been declared to the house and to the country in the
 678 679 680 681 682 683 684
 Mr. Home Drummond  said, he had never heard a more singular attack than this, for a grave accusation had, been made against the lord advocate, that he had not performed all the numerous duties of his office in person. Now, bethought it would be clear to any one who knew the multifarious duties of the learned lord, that it was impossible for him to deliver his opinion on every case. The learned member was a friend to the liberty of the person; but did he forget when he required the opinion of the lord; advocate on every case, that the effect would be to imprison men for a, longer time than was necessary, in order to obtain that opinion? Very few cases required much legal learning or experienced; but when any such did occur, the solicitor-general acted for the lord advocate, when that officer was absent. As to the charge of demanding excessive bail, it was known that moderate bail had been required but had not been put in, this party, for some reason or other best known to himself, declining to take advantage of it. The lord advocate had been accused of deserting the Diet  pro loco et tempore, l. 687
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he could not have thought it would have been necessary for him to reply to any objection of this kind. It was clear that Borthwick was before the magistrates, and that, thinking the charge without foundation, he was dismissed, without even having been held to bail. It was clear that he left Glasgow and went to Edinburgh soon after. This happened after the 12th of March. On the 17th, it appeared that a "concourse" was obtained from Mr. Hope, for prosecuting Borthwick at the instance of Alexander. What he sought to establish here, was what was apparent in all the proceedings; namely, that Mr. Hope must have known of the proceedings which had taken place before the magistrates at Glasgow. And here he thought it was that the conduct of the learned lord opposite was blameable, in having allowed the subsequent proceedings: for he must have known the circumstances which had passed at Glasgow, or have allowed the subsequent prosecution to go on without any inquiry into the circumstances out of which it arose. In either case he was guilty of as great a neglect of his duty, as could well be imagined of a person executing his office; for the simple question was, did Borthwick act under the authority of the decree of Glasgow or not? Now, if he did—and that he did he believed could not be denied—what greater neglect of duty could there be, than to prosecute him afterwards for his conduct on that occasion as for a felony? 671 672 673 pro loco et tempore, pro hac vice, 674 now 675 676
 Mr. Abercromby  said, this was not mentioned in the printed minutes; but it was a fact too notorious to admit of the slightest doubt. That it was not in the papers before the House, was in some degree his fault; but he had not thought it necessary to select it. However, he presumed no person would deny that the fact was so. Would the learned lord, or the noble lord, deny that the charge of theft was made against Borthwick—that a warrant was issued on that charge—and that, fur-
 670
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he was extremely glad that the period had at length arrived when he should be able, not only to redeem the pledge which he had given to that House and to the people of Scotland; but also to comply with the laudable desire expressed by the learned lord opposite, to have a question discussed in which he thought the conduct and character of that learned lord were deeply implicated. After the manner in which he had been goaded to the performance of the task which he had undertaken—after the manner in which he had been calumniated, and, with a perfect conviction of the truth of what he was stating, he would say, officially calumniated in
 665 666 l. l. l. l. l. 667 simul et semel. ab origine, mala fides 668 cessio bonorum. 669
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said, he rose with considerable embarrassment, because he was called to decide upon a case as a judge would be in a court of justice, after hearing but one side. His hon. and learned friend had substantiated a strong case of accusation to which there was no defence. The learned lord had totally passed by, or mistaken, the nature of the accusation. He had talked all along in the plural number. He seemed to think that Mr. Hope was concerned with him, as in a sort of partnership for the administration of justice. Whereas, Mr. Hope was, with respect to this investigation by the House, nobody. The House could know nothing of his responsibility; he was not even an officer of the Crown, he was only a deputy to the earned lord He (Mr. J. P. Grant) knew of no power possessed by the lord advocate to put parties upon their trial for high crimes, which he could transfer to a deputy. He must do that part of his duties in his own capacity—according to the directions of his own mind—on his own view of each particular case. He might depute the conduct of the trials, or appoint persons to assist him in gathering and arranging the facts; but to him alone did the country look for the decision. The learned lord had said, that the powers of his office had been much exaggerated. His powers were, however, enormous, and there was no responsibility attached to them but to parliament. The learned lord would not say that he was answerable to any other tribunal. He had talked of an action for wrongous imprisonment; but the action had been brought, and the only remedy was that the court adjudged that the learned lord should produce his private informer who was to take the place of defendant. Now the learned lord was not only officially, but morally and really responsible foe all that had taken place on this occasion. The learned lord admitted, that the instructions to his deputy were, that there was no ground for the prosecution. This should have placed the prisoner in the same condition as he would have been
 685 686
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said; he had read the whole of the papers and those who knew him better than the noble lord, would be satisfied, that he would not give any vote to inflict pain or censure; on an individual; were he not satisfied that it was deserved.
 690
 Mr. Hobhouse  hoped that the hon. member would, upon consideration, see the propriety of acting upon the suggestion which had proceeded from the chair. There would be an end put to all public business, if the House were to be called upon to interfere in every case in which hon. members might conceive themselves to have been improperly censured. Every member must have found observations directed against him in those papers which were opposed to him in politics. Not a single day passed in which hon. members did not find their conduct ten million times more misrepresented than that of the hon. mover was in the paragraph which he had noticed. It really would be preposterous to found a motion on such a passage.
 Colonel Wood  rose and said:—Sir, in rising to explain the resolutions with which I shall conclude, I feel I ought to apologize for venturing to embark on so difficult, so delicate, and at the same time so important a subject; and certainly I should not have done so, had I not been encouraged by the assurances of many gentlemen, that they consider the plan proposed for ameliorating the Law of Settlement the most practicable plan that has been suggested for the consideration of the House. Neither, Sir, should I have intruded myself on your notice, if I had not long felt convinced, that this was a subject intimately connected, not only with the comforts, not only with the happiness, but with the liberties of the great mass of the British population. 694 695 696 l.; 697 698 699 700 
 1. "That the various provisions of the laws for the Settlement of the Poor have given rise to a course of expensive and embarrassing litigation. 701 2. "That frauds are frequently committed, and, in many parts of the kingdom, generally adopted, to defeat the obtaining of settlements by poor Persons, who may at future periods, become applicants for parochial relief. 3. "That the Removal of poor Persons who are incapable of maintaining themselves, to the places of their settlement, is frequently attended with much trouble, expense, and litigation; and with grievous oppression to the industrious and honest amongst them. 4."That it is not expedient that any poor Person or Persons should be removed from any Parish, Township or Place, (by reason of such poor Person or Persons being chargeable or incapable of maintaining him or themselves) between the first day of August 1823, and the first day of August 1824, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil for the space of Fifteen years;—or, between the first day of August 1824, and the first day of August 1825, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of Fourteen years;—or, between the first day of August 1825, and the first day of August 1826, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of Thirteen years;—or, between the first day or August 1826, and the first day of mist 1827, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of Twelve years;—or, between the first day of August 1827, and the first day of August 1828, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of Eleven years:—or, between the first day of August 1828, and the first day of August 1829, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of Ten years;—or, between the first day of August 1829, and the first day of August 1830, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of Nine years;—or, between the: first day of August 1830, and the first day of August 1831, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been Principally resident or domicil, for the space of Eight years;—or, between the first day of August 1831, and the first day of August 1832, in which such poor Person
 702 5. "That from and after the first day of August 1837, no poor Person or Persons should be removed from any Parish, Township or Place, by reason of such poor Person or Persons being chargeable or incapable of maintaining him or themselves, in which such poor Person or Persons shall have been principally resident or domicil, for the space of One year."
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it was of the utmost importance that the House should be in possession of the clearest information before they proceeded to legislate on this important subject. The resolutions involved, not merely the general principle, but a number of multifarious details, upon which it would be scarcely possible to found any practical measure during the present session. Under these circumstances, he recommended the hon. member to withdraw his resolutions, and ask for leave to bring in a bill, which might be committed  pro forma,
 Colonel Wood  withdrew his resolutions; and gave notice, that to-morrow he would move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws relating to the Settlement of the Poor.
 The Attorney General  commenced by observing, that however various the topics introduced in support of his motion by his hon and learned friend, he finally rested his case on the personal attack made upon the character of the lord chancellor. Before, however, he met his hon. and learned friend upon that subject, he felt it necessary to allude to something which had been stated respecting a legislative measure which was said to be in contemplation, in reference to the attendance of the noble and learned lord in the court of Chancery. He had not heard of that measure, but he did understand that, in the other House, the accumulation of Scotch appeals was so great as to make it necessary to inquire how the inconvenience could be remedied; and one of the objects of that inquiry was, to allow the lord chancellor more time to attend to the business of the court of Chancery. But, it was not on account of arrears of business in that court that a necessity for greater despatch existed. There were, in fact, no arrears of business in that court: but there was an increase of business, arising out of the increased population and wealth of the country, which produced a proportionate increase of litigation. With respect to the vice-chancellor's court, which his hon. and learned friend denied to give any ease to the suitor in. the determination of chancery suits, he would satisfy the House that that was very far from being the case. So far from the prophecies having been fulfilled which were pronounced before the establishment of the court, as to its inefficiency, he way sure he could convince the House, that its utility had been practically proved, and that his hon. and learned friend was quite mistaken in his assertions. It was allowed on all sides, at the time when the court was instituted, that the business of chancery had increased to an extent which rendered it impracticable for any person, however gifted, to keep under the business of the court. It was believed by many, that an effectual remedy would be,
 725 726 727 728 l., l. 729 l. l., l. l. 730 731 732
 Mr. Canning  hoped the hon. member would not press his motion. In cases where an individual found his own conduct grossly misrepresented, it was very natural that he should take any means of righting himself; but great inconvenience would arise if every member forming one of a majority against which reflexions had been made were to take up the time of the House by explaining his motives, and, in fact, re-debating the question upon which he had voted. He hoped that the hon. member, having satisfied his own nice sense of honour, would allow the subject to drop.
 Mr. Jones  said, he had felt himself called upon to notice the paragraph, because he was one of the majority which the editor had alluded to, in the terms which he had read to the House. In voting as he had done last night, he hoped he had acted conscientiously, and according to the opinions of the independent body of electors whom he represented. He did not come down to that House as the partisan of ministers or of the Opposition. It was said, that those who voted in the majority last night would not "stick at a little." That expression admitted of two inferences. If it were meant, that the majority would not be easily prevented from supporting a good and praiseworthy motion, he had no objection to it; but if it were intended to insinuate that they would not hesitate to vote for an improper measure, he would say that it was calumny. He did not intend to call Upon the House to take any proceedings against the editor of the "Morning Chronicle," whom he believed to be a very respectable gentleman. He moved, "That the said Newspaper be delivered in, and the said Paragraph react."
 Mr. Jones  rose to call the attention of the House to a paragraph which appeared in the "Morning Chronicle" of that day, reflecting on the proceedings of that House last night, without, however, intending to found any harsh measures thereupon. The paragraph to which he alluded was as follows:—"The small majority of six last night in a House of 198, is perfectly decisive of the sentiments of members with respect to the abominable proceedings in the case of Borthwick. An analysis of that majority mill be a curious exhibition. We should like to see the names: they must be most valuable partisans: they are evidently not men to stick at a little." He begged to call the attention of the House to the nature of the motion. It was not a motion of a general nature, but it was limited to a most severe censure upon the lord advocate. It called upon the House to declare, that the conduct of that learned lord had been unjust and oppressive. He did not mean for one moment to say that the proceedings which had taken place against Borthwick were not unjust, oppressive, and illegal; and if the motion had been directed against those persons who, in his opinion, were the authors of those proceedings, he would have voted for it: but, having perused the papers which had been laid before the House, and listened to the charge which had been made against the lord advocate with as much attention as possible, he must confess—
 Mr. Jones  acknowledged that he felt
 692
 Mr. Lockhart  contended, that the proposed measure would produce as much litigation as the existing law, from the extreme uncertainty, not only of legal constructions, but of facts necessarily arising as to the question of residence.
 Mr. Monck  knew of but one remedy for the evil of the poor-rates, and that was their total but gradual extinction.
 Mr. J. Williams,  in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, said, that if his object were, to produce a change in the state of the Court of Chancery, rather than to restore what had been altered, he should despair of Success; because he was well aware that the argument or clamour,
 707 708 709 dubitandi patientia 710 "Rusticus expectat dum defluat amnis at ille Labitur el labetur in omne volubilis æ vum." 711 712 713 714 v. l. l. l. s d. "As long as pocket shall hold out, No end to immortal suit" s. l. s. d. s. d. v. 715 l. v. v. l.; v. 716 v, v. v. v. v. 717 v. l. died of a broken heart, * * v. "This assertion appeared to my mind so improbable, that, being a man unencumbered by any profession or employment, I determined to search into its truth, and I applied to a professional friend, who is generally and deservedly esteemed in the parish where the infant died, to make similar inquiries: the result of our inquiries was the same, and we learnt from the infant's friends, and the medical gentleman who attended him on his death-bed, that there was not any reason to suppose his death was occasioned by a chancery suit, or anything connected with one; and I shall prove he had not any cause to grieve about it. Before his death 718 he used often to lament that there could be no salvation, no grace, for such a sinner as himself; but he did not make any unkind allusion to the court of Chancery, or to the noble lord, or other judges who preside there. I am in possession, through the information of those who knew him, of the particulars of the offence that grieved him, and greatly depressed his spirits, which he refused to disclose to his doctor; but delicacy forbids my entering into the detail. This sentimental suitor, represented to have died of a broken heart, occasioned by a chancery suit, was a labouring gardener, and he lived with a person at Peckham. He was buried at Linfield, in the twenty-third year of his age, in July 1816; and during his infancy there had been spent for his maintenance and education 466 l. l, l. l.; l., l. l. 719 s. d.; s. d.; l. s. d. l. 720 721 forte 722 723 724
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  commenced by observing, that this was a question well worthy the most serious attention of the House; and he would, for the information of those who had not thoroughly considered it, place the facts in the shortest possible compass. There never was a subject brought forward in parliament that stood on stronger grounds than this. He and other individuals had often, introduced it; for they felt it to be most necessary, that an inquiry should be instituted into the general practice of the court of Chancery, and into the appellant jurisdiction of the individual at the head of that court. The learned attorney-general had entered into this discussion with some degree of warmth, because he supposed that the hon. and learned gentleman who brought forward the motion had made some invidious observations upon the eminent individual at the head of the court of Chancery, as well as Upon several of the judges in Westminster-hall. Now, for his part, he did not think that his hon. and learned friend, the originator of the present motion, had stated any one point that could be construed as invidious towards any individual in the court of Chancery, or any other court. He admitted, that the lord chancellor filled a very high and a very important situation: but if it were to be said, when a motion of immense importance was brought forward, "Oh, this nearly relates to a person of great rank and consideration, you cannot touch upon his conduct, without betraying an invidious feeling, and therefore you must forbear from introducing the subject," there, would, be an end at
 733 734 l. 735 736 l. l. l., l. l. 737
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  warmly opposed the motion. Was this, he asked, to be the answer to the suitors who were suffering martyrdom by the delays of the court of Chancery? Were they to he told that their complaints should be investigated six months hence? Such a motion was no friendly act to the noble and learned lord at the head of that court. It was to be represented that he, pure and unsullied as he was, trusted his defence to a six months' adjournment. He (Mr. T.) had personally no other feelings but those of regard and respect towards that noble and learned lord; but, if he were his bitterest enemy—if he wished to destroy his well-earned fame—if he wished to see him go down the page of history tainted and dishonoured—what course better adapted to attain that result could he pursue, than the motion brought forward by the noble lord's professed friends on the other side? He believed the noble and learned lord was essential to the existence of the motley administration of which he was the chief member. It was he who cemented the tinsel patchwork of the orange-liberal-protestant-catholic administration of the day; and his coadjutors were now going to declare, that they dared not defend the noble and learned lord's conduct on just grounds! The noble and. learned lord would treat his friends as they deserved.
 738
 Mr. R. Martin  seconded the motion.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, he would not second any motion which was preposterous. He was surprised the hon. member for Westminster should call any motion which was a breach of privilege preposterous. He (Mr. M.) thought that he could not refuse to second a motion which was a breach of privilege. To call the motion preposterous was—a preposterous expression.
 Mr. Denman  said, that as this was a most important question, and as he observed that some hon. gentlemen on the other side had been busily engaged in taking notes, he wished the House to have the benefit of them, and would therefore move, that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, that no desire existed on his side of the House to avoid discussion; but it did not fellow that hon. gentlemen might choose to be pointed at, and called on to speak at the convenience of their opponents. He therefore begged his hon. friend to withdraw his motion, and consent to an adjournment till to-morrow.
 The Speaker  repeated what he had before said, as to the paragraph in question being a breach of privilege. It was in the breast of the hon. member to exercise his discretion under the circumstances of the case.
 The Speaker  put it to the House, whether the course in which the hon. member was proceeding was consistent with its orders or with its dignity. Nothing could be more clear than that any notice of the proceedings of the House was a breach of privilege; but would the privileges of the House, or its dignity or character, be maintained by an explanation of the nature, of the motion, and of what would have been the hon. member's conduct if the motion had been differently framed? He would put it to the hon. member himself, whether, instead of maintaining the dignity of the House by entering into an explanation, amounting almost to an apology he was not in. reality lowering it?
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that though the result of his efforts last year were not calculated to encourage him again to enter upon this topic, still the subject was of such vast importance, that he could not avoid saying a few words. If the House had last year gone into the committee with him, he would have proposed some such measure as that which was now brought forward by his hon. friend; and he, now came forward to redeem his pledge to his hon. friend, to support such a measure whenever he might bring it forward. He differed from his noble friend, who thought that the proposed alteration would increase litigation. He, on the contrary, was satisfied that it would materially diminish it; because the right to remove would be limited by a residence of a certain number of years. As the measure proposed that all persons who had resided in any parish fifteen years should not be liable to removal, all the litigation which applications for the removal of such persons now gave rise to would be cut off. And it was to be remarked, that in proportion to the time that a man had resided in a parish in which he might have spent his youth and strength, became the temptation to remove him to another parish, to be supported in age and infirmity. No new source of litigation was created; the mass of, litigation, therefore, must be decreased, and in no inconsiderable degree. He was convinced that no measure would palliate the evil of the poor-laws, unless the mischief was checked
 704 705 706 l., l., l.
 Lord Althorp  said, he agreed entirely in the principles of the resolutions, that he should give them his support, though he had some doubts as to the extent of their benefit. The evils of the law of settlement were—1. Their interference with the freedom of labour.—2. The expenses of removal.—3. The expense of litigation. The first of these evils, the mea sure would, in proportion as it came into effect, lessen; and, of course, the second in some degree, as those who had been resident for 15 years would not be liable to be removed. But, as to the expense of litigation, he doubted whether the effect might not be to increase it. To decide what was residence, would be left to the discretion of the magistrates; and he feared this would be a constant ground of appeal to the quarter sessions. Under the present mode of gaining a settlement, by hiring and service for a year and a day, there were constant
 703
 Lord G. Somerset  vindicated the conduct of government, and said that the distresses of the petitioners had been much exaggerated.
 Mr. Bernal  complained of the vacillating policy of ministers, on matters relating to trade.
 Mr. Campbell  said, that the distresses of the petitioners were greatly exaggerated.
 Mr. C. Grant  said, that if the intended increase of the barilla duties was unjust, the towering Of those duties last year was a gross act of injustice to the kelp manufacturers; because it was provided in the salt tax repeal bill, that no alteration should take place in the barilla duties; and yet, in a month afterwards, a bill was introduced which had the effect of reducing them one half.
 Mr. Williams  disclaimed having cast such an imputation upon the lord chancellor. He had used no such expression, nor had he given any opinion on the trans action to which the hon. and learned gentleman alluded.
 Mr. Broughum  rose. He began by observing, that he was not surprised at the impatience which had been manifested by the House, when he considered the lateness of the hour, and that it was the second night of a debate on a subject as dry as could well occupy its attention, and in the course of which so much talent, ability, and discretion, had been displayed on both sides; but more especially by his hon. and learned friend, who had introduced the subject to the notice of the House. He must nevertheless, regret, with his hon. and learned friend who had just spoken, that the whole of the debate had been confined to the legal members of the House. He could have wished that, as well as the artists and practitioners in that court—which, in as well as out of the House, had been admitted to be a court of pain and peril, of loss and suffering, of delay and anxiety, of expence, of misery, of penury, and even in some instances the cause of death itself—he could have wished to have called up in witness before the House, some of those who had suffered, not the last, but the scarcely lesser evils—some of the parties to a Chancery suit—some hapless man bending under the weight of penury, the consumption of means, exhaustion of body, and almost of vital energy—some of those who had gone for relief into that court, where it was technically said, relief could alone be obtained. He could have wished that some such one would
 776 777 778 779 780 Io Triumphe— l. 781 782 ad absurdum. l. l. l. mala fide 783 784 785 786 787 l.
 The Solicitor-General  said, he felt it his duty, after the many personal attacks which his hon. and learned friend who spoke last had made, to say something, even at that late hour, especially with reference to that much-respected character the Master of the Rolls. Considering the affliction under which that upright judge and able lawyer was labouring, and that his hon. and learned friend had denied any intention of alluding to that individual personally, he thought a conclusion might have been obtained, by other means than those employed by his hon. and learned friend. The number of cases decided in ascertain number of years in the Rolls court while sir William Grant presided, might have been compared with the number decided in a similar period by the present Master of the Rolls. The number in the former instance might be found greater than in the latter; but the difference was inconsiderable. At the time the present I Master of the Rolls was appointed, there was an arrear of between 4 and 500 cases in the court, and since that nearly 1,000 other cases had come before it. All those, with the exception of about sixty, were now decided; which left an average of between three and four hundred for each year. He therefore thought that, considering the long and severe affliction with which that learned personage had been visited, the harshness of observation which his hon. and learned friend had made use of, might have been spared.—The attack upon the lord chancellor of Ireland was equally unfounded. The hon. and learned gentleman had said, that, out of a hundred decisions come to by the lord chancellor of Ireland, fifty had been, on appeal, reversed; and from that fact, the hon. and learned gentleman had drawn the preposterous conclusion, that it was an equal
 790 791
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose, amidst loud cries of "question." The House, he said, might be assured, that at that late hour, and after the length to which the debate had already gone, it was not his intention to add more than a few minutes to it. Nor should he have risen at
 792 793 794
 Mr. Wetherell  began by complimenting his hon. and learned friend, the member for Lincoln, upon the liveliness with which he had treated a somewhat heavy and Uninteresting subject. He gave his hon. and learned friend credit for a knowledge of equity business, scarcely to be expected from a gentleman not himself a practitioner in the court of Chancery. He differed entirely in opinion from his hon. and learned friend, and trusted he should be
 765 766 de re de persona; officina 767 mentiris impudentissime! officina 768 fac-similated 769 770 l. dubitandi patientia. 771 arbitrium 772
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that whatever the distresses of the kelp manufacturers might be, ministers were bound to have taken that circumstance into consideration before they lowered the duties on barilla. He
 739
 Mr. E. Ellice  said, it was matter of regret to see regulations affecting trade brought in one day and repealed the next—a policy which embarrassed commercial transactions; It had been admitted, that the advantage of the measure to the kelp manufacturers was doubtful: but the injury to merchants and importers of barilla was positive. It had latterly been the policy of ministers to place restrictions on importation—a policy which was most injurious. The measure, if carried, would be fraught with injustice.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he was obliged to his hon. friend for suggesting to him, with his visual accuracy, that the noble lord had a patent place also. Was it not very fitting that the House should be consulted on the matter of this vice-speaker's appointment? The justice of the court of King's-bench, they knew, held a perpetual deputation of this office of vice-speaker.
 788 789
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that this did seen a measure of most crying injustice, as well as of impolicy. The kelp manufacturers, on their own shewing, would reap little benefit from it, and all the advantage they appeared to hope to reap from it, was the compelling the purchase of their bad articles, which they found unsaleable when better was to be had. He was informed that good kelp still sold readily, and with no greater reduction in price than had taken place in barilla. But, in fact, the barilla was chiefly necessary to the soap manufacture in London, where kelp never had been used; and it was most monstrous to tax the soap of the people of England—an article of the first importance to the health, the cleanliness, and the comfort of the community, because bad kelp, from certain parts of the coasts of Scotland and Ireland would not sell.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that not with standing the length to which the discussion had been already protracted, he hoped he should be pardoned if he offered a few observations particularly as, in what he had to say, he was sure he should give utterance not merely to his individual opinion, but to that of the country at large. In the first place, then, he was willing to admit, that the noble and learned lord was an individual gifted with the most extra ordinary acuteness of intellect—that, he possessed a most profound knowledge of law—that he enjoyed a most astonishing momory—and that he was endowed with a surprisingly correct and discriminating judgment. He believed, however, that the warmest friends and admirers of the noble and learned lord's character could not refrain from admitting, that he had one unfortunate infirmity of mind, which intercepted many of the benefits which would otherwise be derived from his great qualities; namely, a want of confidence in his own judgment, which must ever be felt by his friends to be a subject of regret, as it was felt by the public to be a matter of complaint, and, he had almost added, of injury. Though he admitted that no man could be more conscientiously inclined than the noble and learned lord was, to give a correct judgment, still he was surprised that it had never come athwart his mind, that the in jury derived from a long protracted, might almost be as great to the suitor as that derived from an unjust, judgment—It appeared to him, that his hon. and learned friend, the member for Lincoln, had not been fairly treated in the course of this discussion. His hon. and learned friend had reason to complain of the manner in which he had been misrepresented by the side of the. House. It was not his
 762 763 764
 Mr. Hume. —The noble lord has a patent place too.
 Mr. Denman  rose. He could not, he
 740 741 742 743 744 l. 745 "Full little knowest thou that hast not tried, What hell it is in suing long to bide; To lose good days that might he better spent, To waste long nights in pensive discontent; To speed to-day, to be put back to-morrow; To feed on hope, to pine with fear and sorrow; To have thy prince's grace, yet want her peers; To have thy asking, yet wait many years; To fret thy soul with crosses and with cares; To eat thy heart through comfortless despairs; To fawn, to crouch, to wait, to ride, to ronne, To spend, to give, to want, to be undonne." 746 747 748 749 750 "An age that melts with unperceived decay, And glides in modest innocence away; Whose peaceful day benevolence endears, Whose night Congratulating conscience cheers; The gen'ral fav'rite as the gen'ral friend, Such age there is, and who shall wish its end?" 751 752 753
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, he felt additional difficulty in addressing the House upon this question, because he, in fact, had been included as a party in the charge. The office he had the honour to fill brought him within the sweeping accusation at least of the hon. member for Durham, who had objected to the whole system, and to every branch of the court of Chancery. It had been said by his hon. and learned friend who last spoke, that the present motion by no means implied a personal attack on the lord chancellor. But, whatever might have been thought of it before, certainly the speech which the House had just heard had converted it into a direct and personal accusation. It was worthy of notice, that the complaint was not confined to excessive dilatoriness; but the lord chancellor was charged both with a want of judgment and a want of knowledge. His hon. and learned friend seemed to dissent from this statement.
 754 755 l. v. 756
 Mr. Courtenay  said, the hon. and learned gentleman had made the statement upon information received from the adverse solicitor, who complained of the decree having been surreptitiously obtained [hear! from Mr. Williams]. It was true, that the hon. and learned gentleman had given no opinion of his own. He had dexterously left it to the House to exercise its own judgment; but no man could pretend to say, that the impression sought to be made on the House was not, that the chancellor had made a surreptitious decree. He was sure that his hon. and learned friend who spoke last, from the manly tone in which he always addressed the House, would not shrink from saying that such was the nature of the charge. The evidence was much too loose on which, to ground so serious a charge. It was said, that the interviews took place before the decree and with a view to making the decree. The fact was, that the cause was decided in the ordinary and regular, way; the chancellor had pronounced judgment; and there was a material difference between seeing a solicitor after judgment given, and before. The only object of the lord chancellor in seeing the solicitor for one party, was, that he might be supplied with minute matters, absolutely necessary to the drawing up of the decree with nicety and precision. Such had been the constant course with ail chancellors; but the solicitor on the opposite side objecting to it, lord Eldon had taken an opportunity of noticing that objection in open court, and of stating at the same time, that, he not only considered the practice right and proper, but that he should always feel it his bounden duty to obtain information in that manner, with a view to making the minutes of the decree as precise and accurate as possible. This was the history of these interviews; and it was with the utmost astonishment that lord Eldon after wards found, that the solicitor had made a heavy charge for attendances upon him.
 757 v. v. in esse l. v. l. l. 758 759 760 761
 Mr. Denison  presented a petition from several merchants and importers of Barilla. The hon. member stated, that previously the duty on the importation of barilla had been 11 l. l. s.
 Sir F. Blake  asked, if the present question was to be decided by the suitors of the court of Chancery during the last thirty years, where the Noes would be found? He would answer, now here. He felt for those suitors. Those who were present might all be in that unhappy predicament before long, and therefore he would most cordially support the motion.
 Mr. Scarlett,  in rising to support the motion, said, that however pre-digested the speeches of other members might have been, his hon. and learned friend had shown nothing like pre-digestion in the able speech which he had just concluded. He had heard much, in the course of this protracted discussion, of the prudence of judges and of the despatch in the courts of Chancery. It might be said, that counsel had been heard both from the court of Chancery and the courts of Common Law. But, was there no one else worth hearing? Were there no suitors present? Had no gentleman been a minor under the protection of the court? Was there no member present who had been so happy as to obtain a decree in his favour, with costs awarded him? If such there were, he would implore them to get up, and he would entreat the House to hear them. Let not the speeches of counsel be attended to, but Jet them hear what the suffering witnesses had to say; for, if the House intended to do impartial justice, it ought to hear evidence. He was certain, that however he and his hon. and learned friend might appear to differ in that House, they would not differ out of it; and that though they might disagree as to what was necessary, there would be no dispute between them that something was required. He would tell the House on what grounds he meant to support the motion. He had too much respect for the lord chancellor to pronounce a panegyric upon him in parliament; but he might be allowed to say, that the fame of
 773 774 775
 Mr. Huskisson  said it now devolved upon him to state shortly the nature of the alteration which he was about to propose in the commercial policy of the country. Although that alteration was in itself most important, and an entire departure from the principles which had hitherto governed our foreign commerce, yet his plan was so clear, and the benefit to be derived from it so obvious, that he trusted he should, in a few words, shew the committee the propriety of adopting it. Honourable members were aware that it had for a long time, indeed from the passing of the Navigation act, been our policy to impose upon cargoes, brought in foreign vessels, higher duties than those imported in British bottoms, and also in many instances to allow smaller drawbacks upon articles exported in foreign, than upon those exported in British ships. Now, whatever might be thought of the policy of such a measure, it was all very well so long as the nations with which we traded acquiesced in it. But when once the attention of those countries was called to it, it was not likely that such an inequality could last much longer. Accordingly it was found that the greatest commercial nation in the world, after Great Britain, and our great rival in trade—he meant the United States of America—finding the pressure of this tax, immediately commenced the retaliatory, system, by imposing duties upon all articles imported into that country by
 796 797 798 
 1. "That it is the opinion of this committee, that his majesty be authorized, by order in council, to declare that the importation or exportation of merchandise in foreign vessels may take place upon payment of the like duties, and with the like drawbacks, bounties, and allowances, as are payable or granted upon similar merchandise when imported or exported in British vessels from or to countries in which no other duties are charged, or drawbacks, bounties, and allowances,
 799 2. "That his majesty may be authorized by order in council, to direct the levying and charging of additional duties of customs, or the withholding of any drawbacks, bounties, or allowances, upon merchandise imported or exported into or from the united kingdom, in vessels belonging to any country in which higher duties shall have been levied, or smaller drawbacks, bounties, or allowances, granted upon merchandise when imported into or exported from such country in British vessels, than are levied or granted upon similar merchandise when imported or exported in vessels of such country."
 Mr. Huskisson. —That forms a part of my measure.
 Mr. Robertson  opposed the resolutions, on the ground that, if carried into effect, they would increase the distresses under which the shipping interest at present laboured. He would prove, from documents in his hand, that the shipping interest was not in so flourishing a state as had been represented. In the period from 1821 to 1823, there had been a falling off in ship-building to the extent of 161 ships, and 122,000 tons. In the same period, there had also been a decrease in our navigation, to the amount of 732 ships, 129,000 tons, and 8,000 seamen. Such had been the consequence of the system recommended by political economists. The end of that system would be, to drive the trade of Great Britain into the hands of foreign countries. This was the only country in Europe which was abandoning the system of protecting duties. A few years ago, when America obtained some concessions from us, she wished to obtain similar concessions from France; but the French government would not yield a jot, and imposed a light duty on importations from America, who, in her turn, did the same with respect to France. The views entertained by the president of the Board of Trade might be favourable to the mercantile interests, but they were certainly prejudicial to ship-owners and builders.
 Mr. Marryat  said, he knew it as a fact, that the duties between France and the United States of America were reciprocal. All the British ship-owners complained of labouring under great disadvantage, and the loud complaints of that body were certainly deserving of attention. It was stated, that five-sixths of the carrying trade between Great Britain and America was carried on in American ships. Now, it was not too much for the ship-owners to expect, that all the disadvantages which the British government could remedy would be removed. He was of opinion that the duty on timber imported from the Baltic ought to be reduced; and with that exemption he would support the principle of the bill. The inconvenience under which the ship-owners laboured from the present system were striking. It was the duty of this country to act upon liberal principles, and to give way in some instances, in order to preserve the commercial interests of Europe, and of this country in particular.
 Mr. Dennis Browne  said, he did not wish to revive angry recollections, but he would say, that the former policy of England towards Ireland was fraught with injustice and oppression. Ireland had a flourishing woollen manufacture, a branch of trade which, if encouraged, would have gone on progressively advancing, and would of itself have been a source of national prosperity. Yet king William promised his parliament to put down that trade; and his majesty kept his word. The Irish woollen manufacture was destroyed, and a fatal blow was thereby given to the prosperity of Ireland. The growth of tobacco was also prevented; and Ireland was prevented from disposing of her wool to any country but England, and to England only at her own price. The hon. gentleman went on to explain the motives which induced the Irish parliament to take away the agistment tithe. The regulations on this head were most objectionable in principle, and would prove most burthen-some in operation. He strongly objected to the power being given to the arbitrators, to advance the claims of clergy at their own discretion. The bill was so objectionable, that he should oppose its proceeding any further at present. He thought the measure should rest where it was till the next session, and that a parliamentary commission should be appointed to inquire into the state of the several parishes in Ireland, and to report their observations to the House.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, it was scarcely possible that a measure of such magnitude and importance, involving so many opposite interests, and exciting so many apprehensions, should not be liable to some objections. If the hon. and learned gentleman thought the bill incapable of amendment, the most parliamentary course would be, to suffer it to go through the committee with all its defects, with the avowed intention of opposing it when it should come out of the committee; but it would be most unusual and unfair to strangle the measure in its present stage. If the bill were thrown out in the present stage, the disquietude out of which it had originated would necessarily be increased, and its rejection would not merely be the loss of a good, but a great practical misfortune.
 Colonel Barry  did not think the measure could be rendered acceptable by any modification. If the compulsory clause were abandoned, he should have no objection to the measure, being rendered as unobjectionable as it was capable of being rendered; but, if that clause were persevered in, he should resist going into the committee; for he was satisfied that the measure, so far from having a conciliatory
 805
 Mr. Calcraft  thought it would be sufficient to give the commissioners a power to add one-fifth.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  thought the mode of appointing commissioners so vicious, that he should not consent to give them any discretionary power. The effect of this amendment would enable the commissioners to give the clergyman a compensation for tithes which no one had ever thought of demanding.
 Colonel Barry  said, it would remove some of his objections to the bill, if an appeal, were given from the decision of the commissioners, to, the lord-lieutenant in council.
 Mr. Goulburn's  amendment was agreed to.
 Mr. S. Rice  contended, that the rule by which the rate of composition was fixed, should be the amount received by the clergyman on the average of the last three-years. He alluded to the resolutions adopted at a meeting of the noblemen and land proprietors of Ireland, held some time ago at the Thatched-house tavern, and contended that the basis of those resolutions was the same as that on which he now wished to have the present mode of valuing tithes in Ireland established. It should be recollected that the cleryman would gain a considerable advantage by having his present precarious income made certain.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  net only objected to the compulsory clause, but thought the principle of the bill so objectionable, that even if that clause were withdrawn, he should still feel it his duty to oppose it. He would consent to go into the committee, with the declaration that his objections to the measure were not only unabated but increased, and with the anticipation that he should be ultimately compelled to vote against the whole bill.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  thought the clergy would obtain a great advantage by getting security for their incomes on the land of Ireland, instead of precarious payment as at present, from an insolvent peasantry.
 Mr. S. Rice  had never contended that the value of the living was to be estimated upon thereceipt of last year; but in speaking of compensation to a man for what he had never had, he contended they were not called on to give a compensation for what it was not likely the clergyman would ever recover. He would give as much in the case of the 7,000 l. l.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, that a three years' average out of the last seven years might
 808
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that examples of arming the Irish government with a similar power might be found. The lord lieutenant and his council were the court of appeal for cases in which salvage, which had been awarded by the parish officers for useful service in rescuing from ship wreck, should be called in question. They had the same power in the case of minister's money and in several others. He thought the appeal was necessary to pre vent the corruption or misconduct of the commissioners of award.
 Colonel Barry  objected to this clause, because it would convey to men who were not likely to be well qualified, the power of judging in all questions of tithe many of which involved nice and subtile points of law.
 Mr. S. Rice  strongly objected to this clause, which went to give the clergy their, extreme rights, and greatly to extend their present incomes. In eases where
 809
 Colonel Barry  proposed, that a right of appeal should be allowed to persons who paid 5 l.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  objected to the clause, which, in two-thirds of Ireland, would give to the clergy a payment of tithe never contemplated. The bill, in its present state, would endanger the very existence of the Established church, and, instead of a measure of conciliation, be one of irritation.
 Mr. Welherell  opposed the clause, because it would compel the government to take in some cases a bad title, and yet give to the clergyman a larger tithe than he would otherwise have had.
 Mr. C. Grant  thought great credit was due to the government, for having origin-
 810
 Mr. Wetherell  felt objections to placing these new powers in the commissioners, and was still more opposed to giving so large a power to the appellant jurisdiction with which the lord lieutenant, with his council, was to be intrusted. He considered that those powers were at variance with all the existing laws for the regulation of church property.
 Mr. Wetherell  repeated his objections to the measure. If it was at all events to be rejected, he thought it was immaterial at what stage the rejection took place. He should therefore oppose going into the committee.
 Mr. Sykes  said, that when he considered; that this bill would go to the root of the naval system of Great Britain, and that under the law as it now stood, that navy had flourished and become great, he could not help recommending the utmost caution, before the proposed alteration was adopted. He hoped that, under the impression of such a feeling, it was not too much to ask the
 800
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the country was much indebted to his right hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) for the enlightened views he had taken, and the measures he had brought forward, to improve the commerce of the country. Parliament had, at length, begun to find out, that restrictions on commerce were restrictions, not on other countries, but on ourselves. It certainly was a question of policy whether England should take off the duties without receiving reciprocal advantage from foreign powers; but, if foreign powers recognised the same liberal principle, there could be no doubt that the advantage to England would be double the advantage which any other country could derive from the regulation. An hon. member had said, that it would be to his personal advantage to second the principles laid down, but that personal benefits ought to be sacrificed for the good of the navy. Now,
 802
 Mr. Ricardo  thought the composition should be regulated every three years, and that such regulation should be fixed on the average price of corn for the last three years.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  strongly objected to the bill, the provisions of which, he contended, were calculated rather to irritate than conciliate the people of Ireland. He thought it would be better not to press the bill now, but take time to consider the subject; and with that impression on his mind, he must oppose the Speaker's quitting the chair. He should, instead of the House now going into a committee, propose, that the further proceedings on this bill be postponed to this day six
 803
 Mr. Ellice —Then I have nothing more to say.
 Mr. Ellice  said, that agreeing as he did with every thing which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, it was not his intention to enter into the details of the proposed measure. He rose solely for the purpose of repeating a request which he had made last year. He hoped that while the right hon. gentleman was taking off these restrictions, he would take care so to reduce the duties upon the materials used in ship-building, that the British might be enabled to compete with the foreign ship-owner. Take the article of hemp for instance. A duty of 9 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Dawson  objected to the proposition. Did the House know what at present was the state of the South of Ireland, and of the clergy in that part of the kingdom? He had that day received a letter from an individual In that quarter, upon whose statements he could rely: and, amongst other instances, the writer stated, that the clergyman of a parish valued at 800 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Goulburn  called the attention of the committee to an amendment which he thought founded in justice. The object of it was, that where tithes had been paid or agreed for, and the sum so paid or agreed for was not adequate to the just claim of the clergyman, it should be in the power of the commissioners to add to their award a sum not exceeding one-third of the amount of the tithes.
 Mr. Goulburn  protested against the course which the hon. member proposed to adopt. When he proposed to take the last year's receipts as a standard, did he recollect what was the present state of man parts of Ireland? the difficulty there had been in collecting any tithe at all, and how unnaturally the incomes of the clergy had, in many instances, been reduced? He denied that the resolutions adopted at the Thatched-house tavern would bear the construction put upon them by the hon. gentleman. Those resolutions stated, that, for the tranquillity of Ireland, it was desirable that, for the present pre carious income of the clergy, a certain equivalent should be given them of the full value of their tithe. Now, a full equivalent must mean something equal to what they were entitled to under the law: it never could be meant that the precarious income of the last year or two was to be taken as the standard of full equivalent.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he-should oppose any such amendment, because he thought an attempt to reach such a nicety in legislating upon this subject would have the effect of making the bill inoperative. In some parishes there were 2,000 persons
 806
 Mr. Goulburn  replied, that he had no such intention at present. The bill was already sufficiently incumbered with provisions, and there were besides other reasons which rendered it inexpedient to add regulations upon a subject which could not be said properly to belong to it. Nobody could be more anxious than he was to enforce the residence of the clergy of Ireland. During the short time he had been in that country, his efforts had been directed to promote so desirable an object; and although he would not pledge himself to take any particular steps at present, he was convinced that some such measure was necessary to secure the permanent improvement and amelioration of the people.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, there were two questions before the committee; namely whether they should adopt the amendment, or resist the clause altogether. To adopt the amendment would be dangerous, as it would be to adopt a principle which might be applied to other species of property. It would be better to leave out the clause altogether.
 Mr. Abercromby , though he was a friend to Catholic emancipation, was no' friend to Catholic ascendancy. If this clause should pass, he agreed that the Protestant ascendancy in Ireland was not worth five years' purchase. He objected to it, but approved of the bill. He hoped some arrangement might be come to, which should send it forth as a relief to the clergy in Ireland.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he was one of those who felt that some of the provisions of the bill were highly objectionable; still he was most anxious that the measure should go to a committee. The bill contained principles to which he never could agree; and if it were not amended, it would be his painful duty to oppose it. The mea-
 804
 Mr. Hume  wished to know if it was intended to introduce a clause into the bill, declaring that no clergyman should be entitled to composition who did not reside on the living?
 Mr. Wallace  merely rose to express his general concurrence in the resolutions of his right hon. friend. He did not mean to deny, that the system of discriminating duties which this country had adopted had been of advantage, as long as foreign powers were disposed to submit to it; but now, when every country was desirous of affording protection to its own commerce, it was impossible that such a system could continue without producing retaliation. He was perfectly convinced that a system of reciprocity between this and other countries would be found to be the most advantageous that could be pursued. It would not change his opinion of the propriety of his right hon. friend's proposition, to find that it was opposed by the shipping interest; for, in the course of his official experience, he had found, that on every occasion when the ship-owners had come forward to oppose a public measure originating with the government, they were universally in the wrong. With respect to what had been said about the necessity of delay, he must observe, that if the measure was desirable at all, the sooner it was adopted the better. If the ship-owners were hostile to the proposed bill, parliament, be had no doubt, would soon be made acquainted with their sentiments; for he had always found them very ready to state their objections to any measure which had been proposed by him. He believed that the fears which had been expressed of the injury likely to result to the mercantile interest from carrying into effect the views of his right hon. friend
 801
 Mr. T. Wilson  rose, not to oppose the resolutions, but to express a hope that if the bill to be introduced should be found to operate injuriously to the shipping interests, government would repeal the duties which affected ship-building.
 Mr. W. Bankes  disapproved of the bill as it now stood; but, in deference to the Irish gentlemen, he would not oppose its going into a committee.
 Mr. W. Bankes  said, he must object to this clause, which went to constitute the lord lieutenant in council a court of equity.
 Mr. Peel  was desirous that the compulsory clause should be committed altogether. If he were asked, whether he wished for a commission to estimate and to give to the clergy the full value of their dormant rights, he replied at once, that he wished for no such thing. But he was opposed to the compulsory clause upon principle.
 Mr. Peel  condemned this mode of valuing compensation, as cruel and unjust to the clergyman.
 Mr. Peel  said, that his right hon. friend's objection to the compulsory clause was not a valid reason against going into the committee, because he would have a full opportunity of discussing that clause, and stating all his objections to it, in the committee. For his own part, if the compulsory clause were omitted, he would lend his aid in endeavouring to make the bill as perfect as it was capable of being made; but he would not consent to any principle of compulsion, unless the full rights of the church were secured.
 Sir J. Coffin  said, that the hon. member who had just sat down, seemed to entertain serious alarms for nothing at all.
 Sir J. Newport  was of the same opinion. He thought if they now stopped the bill, it would have an ungracious appearance. They had not yet reached the clauses which were the most objectionable. He was of opinion they should go through the committee, and render the bill as efficient as possible; and after it came out of the committee, every gentleman would be at full liberty to reject or support it as he thought proper.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the object of those who agreed to the resolutions which had been adverted to, was, to give to the clergy a certain, instead of a precarious
 807
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that he might admit the whole of the facts stated by the lion, gentleman, and also by the learned counsel at the bar, and yet oppose the amendment. It was said, that the bill would have the effect of increasing the poor-rates, by throwing the weavers upon them for part of their subsistence. Now, if the poor-rates had not been increased much in Spital-fields, it should be recollected, that the weavers there, in periods of distress, had received very considerable assistance from the public purse. But he was prepared to contend, that, if the present regulations were continued, instead of rendering the weavers partly dependent on the poor-rates, they would make them entirely so, by depriving them of all employment. It could not be denied, that if there existed a competition in any part of the country, by which the work could be done for half the price paid in London, the effect would be to deprive the masters in London of all business, and of course the workmen of employment. They would therefore be in a worse situation than the weavers, in the country; for, undoubtedly, the business would be transferred to that part of the country where it could be done cheapest.
 814
 Colonel Wood  wished the measure to be postponed till next session. It had been his fortune to command, for a number of years, a regiment of militia, which was chiefly supplied with recruits from Spital-fields. Now, several of the men who had served under him had requested him to say a
 815
 Mr. G. Phillips  supported the bill. He thought that ministers deserved the highest praise whenever they had the manliness to break through any of the absurd regulations which fettered our commerce.
 Mr. Byng  would vote for the committee as he did not think that a delay beyond a week would occur.
 Mr. C. Grant  observed, that from the arguments advanced by the various advocates for the committee, it was evident that it would be impossible to finish its inquiry that session. The mere appointment of the committee would operate with respect to the bill as an adjournment, sine die; and that was a course which he could not agree to. It had been said that his right hon. friend, in submitting the present bill, had founded it on principles of political science, and not on any
 818
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that the question consisted of two parts. The first affected the right of the Crown to this particular branch of revenue; the second affected the right of the Crown to appropriate it in any manner which might be deemed suitable by his majesty's government. These topics had been frequently discussed within the walls of that House, and on each occasion both of these rights had been affirmed. He admitted, that the present state of the West-India islands was such as to make the House desirous of affording to that interest all practicable relief; yet it was also clear, that, when the tenure of the fund was considered, no argument could be derived from the manner in which if was applied, as' a ground for its abolition. With respect to the right of the Crown to dispose of this fund, it had never been denied, and when Mr. Burke introduced his measure of financial reform, he still left it at the disposal of the Crown. The hon. gentleman had specified instances of the manner in which this fund had been disposed of and in which he supposed some indiscretion to have been practised. As to what had been stated with respect to his own connexion with the fund, he was ready to admit the fidelity of the hon. gentleman. It was true that, many years ago, he had held an office, on retiring from which, by constant and uniform practice, he became entitled to a pension of 1,200 l. 826
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. gentleman ought not to be surprised that the actual expense of the coronation had exceeded the estimate of 1820, when it was recollected, that that estimate was founded on the supposition that the ceremony was to take place in that year; and that a considerable prior expense had been incurred in consequence. When, however, his majesty was advised to postpone the ceremony until the next year, that expense was of course lost. It was clear, therefore, that 100,Q00 l.
 Mr. Bennet  characterised the whole charge of the coronation as a most wicked expenditure of the public money.
 Mr. Hobhouse  supported the amend-
 831
 Mr. Ricardo  was as anxious for inquiry as any member, in cases where it was at all necessary; but, admitting all that the opponents of this bill stated they could prove, it would not change his opinion. If these acts were indeed so beneficial, they ought to be adopted all over the country, and applied to every branch of manufacture; but the question was, whether labour should or should not be free? The quantity of work must depend upon the extent of demand; and if the demand was great, the number of persons employed would be in proportion. If these acts were repealed, no doubt the number of weavers employed in London: would be greater than at present. They might not, indeed, receive such high wages; but it was improper that those wages should be artificially kept up by the interference of a magistrate. If a manufacturer was obliged to use a certain quantity of labour, he ought to obtain it at a fair price. It had been said, that the weavers of Spital-fields received very little from the poor-rates. True, And why? Because there was so little to be distributed among them. Very little could be raised in the parish; and sometimes, when great distress prevailed, resort had actually been had to government, for large sums for the relief of the poor. An hon. member for Bristol had talked about political economy; but the words "political economy" had, of late, become terms of ridicule and reproach. They were used as a substitute for an argument, and had been so used by the hon. member for Weymouth. Upon every view which he could take of the subject, the bill would be beneficial both to the manufacturers and the workmen?
 Mr. Ellice  said, he would, not go into an inquiry into the principle of the bill, but he thought there were some facts connected with it, upon which the House ought to have information before it proceeded further. He would admit, that it was an unwise principle to regulate the price of labour; but parliament had regulated the price of bread and other articles; and if one such regulation was to be done away with, so ought all. If the Spital-fields acts ought to be repealed, many others ought to be repealed also. On all accounts, if it were only to obtain the peaceable assent of the artisans in the metropolis, who were by no means the unthinking uneducated people the right hon, gentleman imagined them to be, he implored him to allow the whole matter to he again brought under consideration in the ensuing session.
 Mr. Bright  was of opinion; that inquiry was, never more called for. What was asked for was merely inquiry. And, ought the House to refuse it merely because some persons talked largely about the principle of political economy? The hon. gentleman then entered into some details to show the disturbances that had prevailed at Coventry and in Spital-fields, before these acts for the protection of the workmen were passed. Distress, confusion, and discontent, might be the result if these acts were repealed. The trade of Coventry would be removed to London, and it would be easy for a few dissolute men to breed disorders in the metropolis.
 816
 Mr. Bright  protested against the appropriation by the Crown of any portion of the public money without the previous sanction of that House.
 Mr. Brougham  hoped his hon. friend would persevere in his amendment. Under any circumstances, an inquiry by a committee into the authority by which, the appropriation was made could, not be injurious. With respect to the items Of the charges, some of them were scandalously enormous. The country ought not to be insulted by such an expenditure as 24,000 l.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he did not wish to give a silent vote upon this question, lest the grounds of that vote should be misunderstood. He approved highly of the principle which went to the repeal of the acts—acts which, he was most willing to allow, were framed upon no sound principles, and the continuance of which he
 817
 Mr. Brougham  said, his hon. friend had, in the reference which he had made to the names of individuals, only performed a painful duty, which he felt himself bound to discharge, and which, without any invidiousness, he had carried into execution. He had stated a case with which he (Mr. B.) perfectly agreed. The Four and a Half per cent. duties had been formerly left to bear the burthens upon them as well as they could, but now another fund was drawn in, which was to make up the deficiencies. That was a strong argument for their abolition. A no-
 827 828
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose and said, that feeling a sincere interest for the welfare of the population affected by the present bill, he should trouble the House with a few remarks upon it. He would not, he said, follow the example of the Learned
 811 812 s. s. s. d. s. s. 813
 Mr. Curwen  said, he should vote against the amendment, as it did not appear that any public money had been mis-appropriated by the Crown.
 Mr. Monck , though friendly to the principle of the bill, thought it ought not to pass unless accompanied by the repeal of the combination and emigration acts.
 Mr. Hume  said, he took the earliest opportunity of calling the attention of the House to a transaction of an extraordinary nature, and which demanded inquiry. He alluded to the Expenses of the Coronation. An estimate of those expenses had been laid before the House, and the then Chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, that the amount would not exceed 100,000 l. l. l. l. 829 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 830 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the present mode of supplying the deficiency of the fund was an innovation on all preceding practice, and ought to be put a stop to. A part of the droits of the Admiralty had of late been made applicable to the demands on that fund, and he thought the whole of the pensions now defrayed by the West-India Island duties ought to be taken from those droits. He saw no reason why the colonies should not be freed from the tax in that way.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if he could persuade himself that any fresh information could be afforded upon this subject, he would have no objection to go into the committee. But, what information could they get by such a proceeding, which they were not already in possession of? He was convinced that it would only be a waste of time to take the evidence of the weavers themselves; and, as to the evidence of the master manufacturers, the House had it already, and one and all of them called for the repeal of these impolitic acts. With regard to the argument raised upon the statement that the wavers had never applied to the poor-rates for relief, he should merely observe, that the evidence attached to the report on the poor-laws distinctly proved that statement to have no foundation in fact. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman opposite, that these acts had not promoted the manufacture's Spital-fields.
 Mr. P. Moore  complained of the manner in which it was attempted to hurry this bill through the House. He had not had time to road over the evidence which had formerly been collected upon this subject, neither, he believed, had the right hon. gentleman. He trusted that he would allow the bill to be fully deliberated in a committee next year.
 Mr. Creevey  rose and said, that according to a notice he had given, he should object to any further supply being granted, until the House had decided upon a grievance which he was now about to submit to them. That grievance was the duty of four and a half per cent which was levied exclusively upon all the commodities of the Leeward Islands. Upon former occasions when he had brought this subject before the House, he had done so upon the ground only of the misapplication of this fund. He had shown on those occasions, that this fund had been created by laws of the colonies which were still unrepealed, and for public specified colonial purposes, and yet that, in defiance of such laws, this fund was now pretty nearly absorbed in pensions amongst the higher orders of persons in this country; and he had sought the restitution of the fund to the original purposes for which it was created. Events, however^ had happened in the present session which induced him to take a new course upon this subject. He held in his hand five petitions which had been presented during this session, from the Colonial Assemblies of each of the Leeward Islands, Barbadoes, Antigua, St. Kitts, Nevis, and Montserrat, and which, with the permission of the House, he would read, condensing the substance as much as he could [Here the hon. member read the petitions]. He would ask the House, if stronger pictures of misery could be drawn, than those in their petitions? And he called upon them to observe, that this impost of 4½ hogsheads in the hundred out of all their sugar, with the same proportion out of all their, rum, and
 820 l. l. l. 821 s. l. 822 l. l. 823 824 825
 Mr. T Wilson  was of opinion, that the repeal of the Spital-fields acts would be beneficial to the weavers and artisans generally. Still he thought that, under all the circumstances of the case, it would be advisable to allow the bill to go to a committee above stairs.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought that the inquiry should be gone into, even though it should delay the measure till next session.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he was disposed to vote for the committee, not for the sake of obtaining further information, for he wanted none—not against the bill before the House, for he was friendly to it; but simply on the principle of conciliation towards those who, under a misconception of its effects, thought their interests were injuriously affected by it. He would accede the committee in condescension to the feelings of that large class of persons. But, if he thought its appointment would have the effect of postponing the bill till next session, he would not vote for it; because he was convinced the result of such a momentary attainment of their object would only continue the existing irritation, and renew future opposition to a measure which he felt ought to be carried into effect. Should a committee be granted, he trusted that by a wise selection of its members, and by framing the-instructions so as to limit the object of inquiry, the House would guard against such a result.
 Mr. Huskisson  having moved the third reading of this Bill, the Lord Mayor moved as an amendment, "That the Bill be read a third time that day six months."
 Mr. Ricarda  contended, that the effect of the existing law was, to diminish the quantity of labour, and that, though the rate of wages was high, the workmen had so little to do, that their wages were, in point of fact, lower than they would be
 832
 Mr. Huslisson  had no difficulty in stating in reply to the hon. member for Coventry, that when his hon. colleague should bring in his bill relative to the Combination laws, he (Mr. H.) should be perfectly ready to agree to the appointment of a committee to investigate the whole subject. He was an enemy to the principle of those laws; and with respect principle of those laws; and with respect to the bill prohibiting the emigration of artificers, he had already stated to the hon. member for Aberdeen (Mr. Hume), that he should be ready to accede to a committee on that subject in the next session. The reason why he had objected to a committee on the present occasion was, that it was a local bill, and not a measure of a general nature.
 Mr. Byng  did not see any practical evil in the present acts, and therefore could not concur either in the propriety or necessity of repealing them. The parishioners of Bethnal-green and Spitalfields had instructed him to oppose the present bill, and had informed him that they wished him to do so, because they reaped great advantage, and suffered no inconvenience, from the present system. He trusted that if that House would not inquire, the upper House would consent to the proposed inquiry.
 Mr. Western  rose and said:— 834 not not 835 not not undefined not s., 836 and that justice required us to establish and perpetuate that measure of value which had been so long current, as near as the same could be ascertained. 837 establish the metallic currency as near the average value as possible of the paper currency which had lasted twenty-two years, value 838 * long period * 839 * s. s. s.
 The Marquis of Titchfield  said, that as he had seconded the motion, he was anxious to take an early opportunity of explaining the views and justifying the objects with which he should go into such a committee as his hon. friend, the member for Essex, desired to have appointed. But though, on many accounts, he was eager to express his opinions on this subject, that eagerness was nevertheless somewhat damped by the consciousness that he must appear under many disadvantages, and principally on account of the contrast that would be drawn, so much to his prejudice, between himself and the mover, who, from his experience, abilities, and long study of the subject he had introduced, was entitled to possess so much weight with the House and with the country. The cause which his hon. friend had undertaken, and with so much honour to himself had supported, although it belonged undoubtedly to all the productive classes of the country, was still more emphatically at that period the cause of that great body of men, who were till lately considered, and even still had the, name of it, as the most powerful portion of the community, but whose influence had, within a year or two, declined in so marked a manner—he meant the landed
 860 861 862 863 864 865 866 * * 867 868 best, 869 870 871 872 * * 873 874 875 876 877 878 879 880 881 vice versâ. 882 883 884 885 886 887
 Mr. Baring  said, he must deny that the present was a question which interested only one or two classes of the community. On the contrary, he considered it to be a question of the utmost importance to all classes of society, and he was anxious to state his opinion upon it, because he wished to account for what might appear to be an inconsistency in his conduct. Having, three years ago, when the question of the currency was under consideration, made a proposition to the House of a similar nature to that now made by the hon. member for Essex, it might he asked, why, three years later, he should feel it his duty to oppose the inquiry now called for. The noble marquis who had just sat down, had, in a very few words, pronounced his (Mr. B.'s.) defence, when he had said, that in the question of currency "time was every thing." And he would say, that the extract which the noble marquis had read from a speech delivered, in the year 1811, by that excellent and able man, Mr. Henry Thornton, explained exactly the principle on which the question now rested. It was impossible for any man to state precisely, that three, or four, or five years should be the determinate time, after which a currency that had been tampered with, should be restored to its original value. It was essentially a question of time—not limitable to any specific period; and if a legislature had been so unfortunate as to tamper with the currency of a country—whether they should afterwards return to the course from which they had departed or not, was entirely a question of time. Supposing that position to be generally admitted, if an alteration were made to any certain amount—to the amount of 15 or 20 per cent for instance—in the currency of a country, it would become a matter for argument, whether it would not be better to leave it on the principle of depreciation, rather than to return at once to the old standard. He was of opinion, however, that, though a committee at present would do no good, the hon. member for Essex had conferred a benefit on the country, in different ways, by the agitation of the question. In the first place, the numerous meetings throughout the country had induced the people to believe, that the interference of the legislature was called for with a view to
 897 898 899 900 901 902
* Mr. Ricardo  observed, that the hon. member for Essex, and all those who took
 * 850 851 852 853 five hundred millions three hundred millions 854 855 l. s. l. s. d. 856 857 * * 858 859
 Mr. Ellice  trusted, that if the right hon. gentleman was determined to press, the third reading of the bill, he would accede to a committee in the next session, to consider the propriety of a repeal of the combination acts, and other oppressive laws by which their interests were affected.
 Mr. Bright  said, that the working classes believed this measure to be injurious to their interests, and it was the bounden duty of the House, therefore, to inquire into all the circumstances connected with it. The committee on the silk trade in the House of Lords, so far from advising the repeal of the existing laws, recommended an extension of them. He deprecated most strongly the precipitation with which a measure so deeply affecting the interests of a large body of the working classes, and which must necessarily have the effect of diminishing their wages, was hurried through the House without inquiry.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that he hoped this bill would not be hurried through the House, it being merely a repeal of local regulations, where the parties themselves, if mistaken in their supposition, would be the only, sufferers by the law remaining as it stood. The fact, as far ns he could learn, being, that under the present Spital-fields acts there was a committee of workmen who met a committee of the masters, and who settled the rate of wages between themselves—the magistrate merely signing it for form, and being the authorized mediator in case of differences. Something of the sort took place in all trades. Make what combination laws you may, the necessity of an understanding between parties will always abrogate them in practice; and where there was a committee of journeymen in communication with a committee of employers, power of mediation on contested points existing somewhere seemed no unreasonable provision, and one which, in the present instance, appeared to have given satisfaction to a large body of people, who felt that in repealing it, the House was taking from them a necessary protection.
 Mr. Hume  was satisfied that this measure would in its results be highly beneficial to the working classes.
 Mr. Peter Moore  was persuaded that if this bill passed, it would compel thousands of journeymen to seek parochial relief.
 Mr. James  thought, that not only the Combination laws, but the law prohibiting the emigration of artificers, ought to be repealed. Nor ought the House to stop there. The same principle of removing restrictions ought to be applied to the Corn laws.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he was satisfied that at no very distant period the fears of those who were now so much alarmed at the measure would turn out to be unfounded, and that, instead of injury, benefit would accrue to them from the alteration.
 Mr. Attwood  said, that the justice of the measures proposed by the present motion, and the necessity for their adoption, had been already explained with so much more weight, and greater ability, than he could lay claim to, that he should endeavour to occupy the attention of the House but shortly, and should confine his observations to those topics on which the question mainly depended. He had heard no adequate reply given, nor, as he thought, even attempted to be given, to the principal arguments adduced in support of the motion. The right hon. gentleman who spoke last appeared to him to admit the most material pro-
 946 947 948 949 950 951 952 s. s. d. 953 s. s. s. s. s. 954 ad valorem s. 955 It is true that this excessive speculation had its foundation in the diminishing value of money: 956 957 958 959 s. s. s: 960 961 l. l. l. s d. s. d. s. s. d. l. s. d. 962 * 963 s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l s. d. l. 964
 Mr. B. Wilbraham  thought, that the House ought not to interfere with the province of the high sheriff in summoning grand juries.
 Lord Stanley  observed, that the mode of nominating grand juries in Lancashire was precisely similar to that pursued in every other county.
 Mr. G. Philips  said, that the subject was one of the greatest importance. He believed that the allegations of the petition were strictly correct, and that the mode of selecting the grand juries of Lancashire partook much of the nature of a monopoly. Under such circumstances, it was not improbable that the political prejudices of the grand jury should interfere with the rights of justice. It certainly had created no little surprise in his mind, that the grand jury had thrown out the bills which were preferred against the Manchester Yeomanry. He was of opinion, that the subject of the nomination of grand juries should undergo a complete investigation.
 Dr. Phillimorc  presented a petition from: the rev. Dr. Poynter, praying that the Roman Catholics of England might be placed upon the same footing as those of Ireland, with respect to the performance, of the marriage ceremony.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that the subject had always appeared to him to be not only of infinite importance, but also one which was most imperfectly understood. He was aware too of the prevailing unwillingness to enter upon it; an unwillingness which had been increased of late by the consideration, that the extreme depression of price was, for the present at least, removed; and he would therefore have been content to have given a silent vote upon the question, did not the particular reference that had been made to him seem to require an explanation. Before, however, he entered upon that point, he was desirous of saying a word respecting the probable continuance of the improved prices, and though not conscious of being more inclined than other men to give way to unwarrantable alarms, yet, as the experience of a century seemed to exclude such a rate of price as could be said to be tolerably remunerative under our present circumstances, such for instance, as that which existed at the present moment, he confessed he found it extremely difficult to settle down at once into the certainty, that all our apprehensions on this score were finally removed. 903 904 i.e. 905 906 907 908 909 910 911 * l. s. d. s. d. "Moneta in justum valorem reducta." * 912 913
 Lord Folkestone  commenced his speech
 914 ad hominem. 915 916 917 * l. l. * 918 dernier resort 919 920 921 922
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that after the full discussion which this subject had undergone during the last two nights, and after the repeated discussions which had previously taken place, he felt that it would be quite unwarrantable in him to trouble the House with any preliminary observations, and that his conduct would be exceedingly reprehensible, if he did not at once address himself to those main considerations which must influence every one on this important occasion. The hon. member for Essex had proposed, on the 12th day of June, that a Committee should be appointed to enter upon a number of the most momentous and complicated inquiries that could by possibility occupy the attention of any body of men. The hon. member had proposed that, at that period of the session, the Committee should take into its consideration the various changes which had taken place in the value of the currency since 1793, and the effects produced by the reformation of the currency on the money-income of the country derived from industry. Now, he confessed that, if he were on the Committee, he should not know what was meant by "the effects produced on the money-income of the country derived from industry," nor how that income, which was derived from industry, was to be distinguished from income growing out of other sources. The Committee was also to consider of the operation of the taxes pressing on the monied income;" but, above all, it was to inquire "into the effects produced by the change in the currency on the money-contracts of the country. Now, he would ask, was it possible to consider of all these subjects,
 923 924 925 * * 926 s. s. s. s. s. d. s. d. l. l. l. l. 927 l. l. l. l. l. s. d. 928 s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. 929 s. s. s. d. s. s. l. l. l. * * 930 * * 931 s. s. s. s. l. s. l s. d. 932 s. s s. 933 934
 Mr. Bennet  said, he could, not help noticing, in the first place, the observation of the right hon. Secretary, respecting the time which the present motion would occupy, if it were agreed to—an argument which, to his mind, was unworthy to be used. It was paltry and technical. If the affairs of the country demanded it, parliament would sit as a matter of course. He well recollected, that, when a great crime was to be perpetrated, and when fraud and perjury and malice and treachery conspired to ruin an individual, parliament passed a whole summer in investigating the most disgusting and disgraceful question ever submitted to its inquiry. It was surely, then, a little too much to hear from the very government who had so occupied the time of parliament, an objection raised, that it could not, from the state of the seasons, devote its attention to the most important question of justice and right that had ever been under its investigation. l l. l. l l. l. l. l. l 935 of all commodities. s. s. l. l. s. d. s. d. s. d. l. l. * 936 l. l. * * 937 938 939 s. s. d. s. s. d.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he felt it necessary to trouble the House with a few words, in defence of the course which he had taken upon this subject, during the many discussions which it had undergone in former sessions. He could not help observing, in the, outset, that he had entertained a wish and a hope, that the hon. member for: Essex, following the example of the hon. baronet, the member for Somersetshire (sir T. Lethbridge), and yielding to the reasons which had swayed that hon. baronet, would have withdrawn his motion, upon finding the altered state
 940 941 942
 The Marquis of Titchfield  denied, that he had made any such statement.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had certainly understood his noble friend to have stated, that all rents would disappear. His noble friend had undoubtedly dwelt upon the impoverishment of the aristocracy; but, it was impossible to suppose that the in-cumbrances could absorb all the rental of the nobility and gentry of the country. His noble friend did not appear very sanguine as to the practicability of an equitable adjustment. He (Mr. H.) would not fatigue the House by going into any detail, to show the utter impracticability of such an adjustment. Was there a man living who could imagine for a moment, that the complicated transactions of thirty years were capable of undergoing such an adjustment? The House had heard a little the other evening, about the court of Chancery. But, if the principle of an equitable adjustment were to be acted upon, it would be necessary to have more courts of Chancery throughout the kingdom than public-houses; and even then, it would be impossible to dispose of all the cases in the space of thirty years. But, his noble friend, abandoning the notion of an equitable adjustment, had spoken of reducing the currency, as if that would be a measure of relief. His noble friend did not seem to be aware, that the effect of such a course would be to throw things into that state of confusion which he was most anxious to avoid; and besides being in principle a violation of all right, that it would ruin all credit and confidence. There was now a rise in the value of the commodities of the country. But, if the principle of the gentlemen opposite were to be acted on, there ought to be a standing committee of that House, to regulate the fluctuations and variations of prices. The hon. member for Taunton had stated, that the fall in the value of the precious metals was not only affected by banking operations in our own country, but by the paper issues of America, Austria, Denmark, and Russia. So that if the principle of the hon. member for Essex were once admitted, it followed, that we were at the mercy of those powers, so far as regarded our standard of value. America had only to make an issue of paper, by which the value of money would be lowered, and then we must have a committee, in order to fix what the value of money was. This was contrary to every principle laid down
 944 945
 Mr. Grey Bennet  hoped the learned I gentleman would not be deterred from introducing such a measure, by what he knew of the opinions of certain individuals upon the subject. The law as it now stood was a disgrace to the country. He I trusted the learned gentleman would not delay the introduction of his measure.
 Mr. P. Grant  also hoped, that his learned friend would not delay the introduction of the bill. It had been stated, that the marriage of Catholics by a Catholic priest in Scotland was valid. True, it was so, because marriage, by the law of the country, was looked upon as a civil contract; but, by an act of the Scotch parliament, still in force, a Catholic priest was subjected to heavy penalties for performing the marriage ceremony between two Catholics, though the marriage would still be valid. It had happened to him to have to defend a Catholic priest, in a prosecution instituted against him, for an infraction of this law. His client was fortunately acquitted, and he believed that since then further prosecutions under that statute were abandoned.
 Lord Nugent  said that the case of the; English Catholics with respect to the re-
 966
 Mr. Monck  approved of the removal of the restrictions on the celebration of lawful marriages by Catholic priests. In some parishes in London there were thousands of Catholics who married according to the rites of their own church, and whose children were consequently in law bastards and burthens to the parishes where they were born, instead of being removable with their parents.
 Mr. Monck  rose amid cries of "question." He contended that the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down was mistaken in measuring the depreciation by gold as compared with paper; since it was allowed that gold itself had varied materially, and was at one time reduced so low, as to command only one quarter of wheat for one ounce of gold; whereas, in all other times, one ounce of gold had commanded two quarters of wheat.
 Dr. Phillimore  said, he had framed I such a bill some years ago, but on sounding the opinions of certain individuals upon it, he found that it would excite opposition in another place.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  thought, that some legislative measure should be introduced to remedy the evil; but many of the inconveniences complained of might be attributed to the conduct of the Catholic priests themselves; for they must know, that such marriages were null and void, and they ought, therefore, to refuse to perform the ceremony, until the parties had first been married according: to the rites of the Church of England. This was done by the Catholic priests in Durham, and if adopted in other places, would; obviate many of the evils complained of. At the same time legislative remedy ought to be provided.
 Mr.
 965  presented a petition from certain inhabitants of Liverpool, praying that the House would take into consideration the mode of selecting Grand Juries, with a view of remedying the evils attached to it. The petitioners complained, amongst other things, that great inconvenience and injustice arose from the circumstance of a particular class of persons only being summoned to serve on grand juries. In consequence of this mode of proceeding, the grand jury of the county of Lancaster had become a sort of standing jury, the same names being continually placed on the panels. The petitioners attributed the failure of justice in the trials of the Manchester Yeomanry mainly to the manner in which the grand jury of Lancashire was nominated. One of the statements of the petitioners was, that the number of persons who had served as grand jurors in Lancashire, during the last 12 years, was only 38, whereas it ought to have been 163.
 Mr. T. Ellis  expressed a hope that his learned friend would not be deterred from introducing the bill. Though not favourable to granting to the Catholics any accession of political power, he would go as far as any member to remove all their disabilities, short of the granting of such power.
 Mr. James  said, he had not been so fortunate as the hon. member for Norfolk, for he had not read the writings of Mr. Locke and Mr. David Hume, on the subject of currency, &c. He had, however, read the Essays of his namesake (but not relation) Mr. James, and he had also read Mr. Cobbett's "Paper against Gold," and, in his opinion, that eminent public writer had thrown more light on the subject than all the others put together. He thought that government, by changing the currency, had done neither more nor less than aid the Bank of England in committing a gross fraud upon its creditors. Nothing, in his view, could benefit the country, but a rectification of contracts and a large reduction of the national debt. A greater violation of property had never occurred in any country. It was, in fact a. revolution marked by the most atrocious injustice; an injustice greater than any despotic government in the history of the world had before accomplished.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he had a petition to present from the parish officers of a large and populous district, complaining of the burthen brought upon them, and the injury to the country in general, in consequence of the law making the marriage of Roman Catholics by their own clergy, unlawful. They represented the disregard of solemn vows, the abandonment of offspring, and the profligacy and distress occasioned by this useless and absurd law. The petition was from the churchwardens, overseers, and guardians of the poor of the parish of St. Luke's; they stated that in their parish, which contained 40,000 people, a large proportion of the population were Catholics, natives of Ireland, who preferred to be married according to the usage of their own religion and country. The children of all such marriages were in law bastards, had no natural guardians, were chargeable to the parish, from which they could not be removed with their parents, were legally orphans from their infancy, and were exposed to the wiles of seduction and to all the guilt and misery consequent on such a state. The petitioners prayed for the alteration of this law, which alteration would be an extension of toleration, without conferring the slightest degree of political power.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was not his intention to establish a permanent law imposing a high duty upon barilla for the purpose of encouraging the manufacture of kelp. His measure was merely temporary. There were peculiar considerations belonging to this case which induced him to extend to the kelp-makers such relief and protection as was practicable. He owned that the distress among them was extremely great: not less than from 80,000 to 100,000 persons were, in some way or other, employed in this branch of trade; and, from motives of humanity, it was necessary to do something for them. He therefore proposed n resolution for raising the existing duty on barilla from five to eight guineas; the new duty to begin on the 5th of January 1824, and to continue for five years.
 Mr. Campbell  strongly supported the resolution, observing that if it were not carried, 2,000 persons on his own estate only would be thrown out of employ.
 Mr. Calcraft  felt himself called upon to support the resolution. Want and misery would be entailed upon the kelp-makers if it were not carried. He objected to high duties in general, but thought that in this case the injury to the merchants, &c. would be less than to a large population on the west coast of Scotland.
 Mr. K. Douglas  thought it would be better to defer the measure till the next session, and that the kelp manufacturers would not suffer any material injury in the meantime.
 Lord Binning  denied that the benefit was imaginary. On the ground of humanity he claimed this increase of duty, though it might be in opposition to the cold rules of political economy. He did not care one straw for political economy in a case of this kind.
 Mr. Marryat  condemned the variable policy out of which this proposition
 975
 Lord F. Gower  felt himself bound to support the proposition.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  thought previous inquiry absolutely necessary. Much had been said on the score of humanity, but he feared there was a great deal of self-interest mixed up with that appeal. The property in kelp manufactured had doubled since 1792, whilst every other species of property had decreased. He had a suspicion that this case, if investigated, would resemble the case of the Scilly Islands, which had been brought under consideration some years ago, and had taken a large sum out of the pockets of the people.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the restrictions on brewing in the same premises different kinds of beer, paying different duties, were necessary to prevent frauds upon the revenue and the consumer, by mixing them. As to the proposed change from five to four barrels a quarter, it would absolutely ruin the porter brewers; whose beer would be scarcely superior in quality, and who yet would remain charged with 10 s.
 Mr. Bernal  insisted, that the precautions against mixing the two sorts of beer were both futile and vexatious.
 Mr. Wodehouse  opposed the bill, and suggested that it should be postponed to the next session when a full inquiry might take place.
 Mr. Marryat  wished to know the reason of the arbitrary distance of 200 yards which was required between one brewery and the other? He knew a brewer who had two premises 150 yards distant from each other. The erection of another would cost 10,000 l.
 Mr. Herries  defended the bill, and thought the restrictions necessary, to secure to the public the full benefit of competition, by bringing a new race of brewers into the market.
 The Marquis of Titchfield  opposed the bill as it stood, and considered that it would have no tendency to encourage the brewing of a better sort of beer, as the business would not be undertaken except by those who could incur the expense and risk of new buildings for the purpose.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  opposed the bill, and suggested the removal of the beer duty altogether. The new beer would be such trash as no labouring person would drink. It would find no consumers, he hoped, in London, nor any where else.
 Mr. Maberly  concurred in thinking the bill most unfair upon the brewers of small beer, who only wished to be enabled to retain the business they carried on, without the needless expense of erecting new-premises. The whole state of the trade required investigation. He would next session move to repeal all the duties on beer; which would put the poor who bought their beer from the brewer, on a level with those who brewed their own beer. The duty increased the price of beer to the consumer one penny per pot.
 Mr. S. Rice  protested, that his proceeding in this matter had been guided throughout by a sense of justice and a regard for the honour of Parliament. If he were compelled to postpone the discussion after the repeated delays which had occurred, he must be exculpated from any share in the blame. Let it be remembered, that, on the last occasion in which this subject was to have been discussed, an hon. member, who must be supposed to feel more interest in it than any other gentleman in the House, deprecated the delay, even of four or five days, as being in the highest degree prejudicial to the character and feelings of the high personage whose conduct was to be called in question. He would not therefore subject himself to the imputation of injustice by assenting as a matter of course to delay. From that quarter alone it could with propriety be asked of him; and if it were solicited by that hon. gentleman, and the call were backed by that of the House, then he would acquiesce. But in that case he would not take upon himself any future responsibility, nor would he feel himself engaged to renew his notice next session. He would leave it to those whose business it was to watch over the administration of justice to do as they pleased with it.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  agreed as to the propriety of postponing the discussion. He had examined the question, and he was prepared to vote upon some of the propositions of the hon. gentleman; but there were others, upon which, without further inquiry, he was not prepared to vote, and therefore he thought it had better be postponed till next session.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that if the inquiry were postponed, he would not pledge himself to renew it. If the postponement were forced upon him, he could not resist it: but he would say, that that postponement was he act and deed of his.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that it appeared to him that the majority of the House would be for delay.
 Mr. S. Rice  left it with the House, or with ministers, to prosecute the inquiry, should they now determine on a postponement.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that then he would go on.
 Dr. Lushington  admitted that ministers ought not to promote this inquiry, because there was an influence naturally attached to their stations which must act prejudicially to the justice due to any parties against whom they might appear.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  disclaimed, for his majesty's ministers, the right as well as the intention of interfering in this business as the promoters of it. The hon. and learned gentleman was quite mistaken if he thought he would be induced to fall into the trap which had been so ingeniously laid for him. He would not consent to swell, upon this occasion, the triumph of those gentlemen, who, upon other occasions, were his adversaries. No conduct of theirs should force the prosecution of the business into his hand, nor, if his advice were listened to, into that of any of the hon. friends with whom he acted. He would, if it should become necessary, attend at every step which should be taken, but he would do no more. The right hon. gentleman referred to the impeachments of Warren Hastings, and of lord Melville, in neither of which the ministers had taken any part, and concluded by expressing his opinion that the postponement of the inquiry was expedient under existing circumstances.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the better mode would be, to refer the matter again to a committee.
 Mr. S. Rice  stated, that he had repeatedly offered to bring forward his charges, and had constantly been met by an application for delay. He would not, therefore, pledge himself to bring, the subject forward next session. The House should consider that there were two parties in this case. This procrastination must be painful to the learned person against whom the charge was made, and it must also be painful to the individual by whom it was agitated; who might, however unjustly, be accused of not being anxious to press forward this always-postponed accusation.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, that his majesty's ministers were determined not to meet any case of this kind as they ought to do. They were the shelterers of every thing that looked like criminality. It was a part of their system. But their proceeding on this occasion must open the eyes of the inquiry. Here was an accusation brought against one of the Judges, of the land, and ministers refused either to place him in that situation of honour which his innocence justified, or to consign him to that punishment which his offence deserved.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he would ask
 982
 Colonel Barry  said, if his hon. friend would pledge himself to go on with the inquiry next session, he would vote for the postponement; but if he declined doing so, he should call for immediate inquiry.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought it impossible that the hon. and learned gentleman, who seemed to have been occupied in a much pleasanter way than in doing his duty in that House, could have heard the remarks of the hon. member for Shrewsbury. He (Mr. Peel) had not objected to the hon. member for Shrewsbury's giving his opinion on the motion. What he had said was, and he still maintained it, that it was extremely unfair, on the part of the hon. gentleman, to prefer an accusation against his majesty's government without having any ground whatever for the charge. As to the tone of which the hon. and learned gentleman complained, it was the natural tone of a man who felt himself and his friends unjustly accused.
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that having read the whole of the evidence taken before the committee, and endeavoured to make
 985
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that much injury had been occasioned by the vacillating policy which had been pursued with respect to these duties. He thought that the measure could not be pressed too rapidly.
 Mr. Wetherell  objected to laying a responsibility on ministers which belonged to the House, and advised the postponement of the subject.
 Mr. C. Smith,  though not in the habit of opposing the chancellor oft he Exchequer, must vote against the bill.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought the bill would be inoperative and it certainly was very unjust; as it, in fact, confiscated the property of the table-beer brewers. As to the idea of preventing weak beer from being put off on the public for strong, the public might be safely left to take care of itself. No harm could be done by passing the bill without the vexatious restrictions; at least for a year, by way of experiment.
 Mr. Ricardo  contended, that the only ground on which the resolution could be supported was that of humanity. The same reasons that now induced this augmentation, would exist at the end of five years to warrant its continuance. He objected to temporary expedients of this kind, and to the principle on which they were established.
 Sir F. Ommanney  said, "You paired off with me this evening." [a laugh].
 Mr. Canning  said, that rather than undertake, the responsibility which the hon. gentleman would impose on him, he would go into the discussion at once.
 General Hart  would vote for the proposition, which he considered necessary for the support of a great part of the population of the north of Ireland.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he had the misfortune, on this occasion, to be one of those who had been, for the last three or four hours, guilty of a gross (he believed that was the expression) abandonment of his duty towards that House, by absenting himself from it, while this lively discussion was going on; and, therefore, according to that right hon. authority, he had no right to state his opinion. He was, however, in time to vote; and, though a man who had no right to vote on a great personal of political question, had certainly no right to speak on its merits, he believed it would be conceded to him that he who possessed the right of voting was also entitled to the privilege of stating the grounds on which he gave his vote. He was, however, happy to find that a new era was about to commence in that House, and that, henceforth, none were to deliver their sentiments who had not been present all the evening. Heretofore many complaints were made or empty benches, and on many occasions—and those, too, of importance—little else was encountered by the eye, except the brown and green colours which distinguished their seats, because gentlemen were disposed to com-
 983
 Mr. Brougham  proceeded. He con-
 984
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that every statement he had heard confirmed him in the opinion, that the re-imposition of the duty on barilla would be of little or no benefit to the kelp-growers, and would, as necessarily increasing the price of soap—one of the most material articles of common life—be one of the most shameful measures that could have been devised. He held in his hand a paper which had been directed to be delivered to Scotch and Irish members only; but he trusted the English members would do their duty to their constituents and not allow this bill to pass.
 Mr. J. P. Grant  supported the proposition.
 Mr. Monck  said, that the bill gave satisfaction to no one The effect of it was, to lay a new duty on small beer. Table beer, as the law stood, was allowed to be brewed at the rate of six barrels from a quarter of malt; the new beer was to be brewed at the rate of five barrels; and for this increased strength of 20 per cent, an increased duty of 150 per cent was charged. In the trade, restricted as it was, no man would be found to embark. If the chancellor of the Exchequer would allow the strength to be four barrels to a quarter instead of five, something perhaps might be done.
 Mr. Hume  enforced the necessity of taking up this long-delayed inquiry. Ministers ought to consent to go on with it, or at any rate to show some regard for the purity of the justice seat, by suspending the chief baron until it should be determined.
 Mr. Hume  said, that since the duty on barilla had been taken off, the price of kelp had risen. Unless the chancellor of the Exchequer, in a committee up stairs, could make out his case, he could not vote for the resolution.
 Mr. Hume  protested against any further delay, and stated that, in his opinion, the inquiry was about to be put off by connivance on both sides of the House.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  urged the necessity of going into the inquiry. When a judge was charged with criminality, he ought to be acquitted or condemned, with as little loss of time as possible.
 Captain O'Grady  said, he would not offer a single opinion on the subject of the inquiry. He certainly had given the learned member for Peterborough to understand, that if the House were decidedly in favour of postponement, he would not stand in the way for a moment; with this understanding—that nothing in his conduct should be drawn into an imputation on the conduct of the learned judge for whom he felt so deeply interested.
 Mr. Denman  objected to further delay upon a case made out by two judicial commissions, and confirmed by two reports of that House. It was idle to suppose that there was no ground for suspecting the chief baron of malversation in his court. He strongly objected to the opinion, that ministers were not bound to take up the case officially. If it was not their duty on whom did the duty devolve? Were not the judges places filled by them? Had they really no responsibility in seeing that justice was not polluted by those whom they appointed? He maintained that the responsibility of this and every such inquiry rested with ministers, and would object to the postponement.
 Mr. T. Wilson  opposed the increase of the duty.
 Mr. Denison  wished that sufficient time should be allowed to the soap-makers, to receive consignments of barilla contracted for under the duty of five guineas.
 Mr. Denison  complained of the clause of the bill which prevented the brewers of table beer from making the medium description of beer without erecting new premises. This enactment he considered most unjust and oppressive. The table-beer brewers were ready to submit to any penalties to guard the revenue from any infringement of the laws. The bill accompanied by this clause was so objectionable, that he should wish to see it put off to another session; when a committee
 976
 Mr. Peel , though he thought delay ne-
 980
 Mr. Wilberforce  was in favour of the postponement, on the ground, that many
 981
 Mr. Scarlett  then moved, as an amendment, "That the further consideration of the said report be postponed till the next session."
 Mr. Scarlett  repelled, with considerable warmth, the assertion that the proposed postponement was the result of connivance.
 Mr. Scarlett  repeated his objections to having the character of a judge drawn into question, unless they were prepared to go through the whole of the case. The requisition of his hon. friend did not, he thought, perfectly consist with his visual kind disposition and good feeling. He felt the greatest sympathy for the young gentleman to whom allusion had been made; and after the opinion he had expressed he ought to be the last man in the House from whom any call of delay
 979
 Mr. Scarlett  rose to object to the entertainment of a motion so gravely affectting the character and honour of an officer of high judicial rank, at a period of the session when it was impossible to hope that they could draw the inquiry to a conclusion within the time of their sittings. He would support the motion, if introduced early in the next session; but he could not, under all the circumstances, refrain from opposing it, if pressed at the present moment.
 Sir J. Newport  thought the postponement unnecessary.
 Sir J. Newport  was desirous that the inquiry should be proceeded in at once.
 Mr. Maberly  objected to the measure as being most unjust in principle. It obliged brewers to erect the new works alluded to in the bill, at a distance from their present premises, and at a great expense—to try an experiment which might not succeed. To mark his opinion of the measure, he should take the sense of the house upon it.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  stated, that he was ready to affirm the resolutions, as far as they were simply extracts of the reports; but as far as they contained matter of accusation against the chief baron, he was not prepared to affirm them. If the committee entertained the charge, he saw no constitutional mode of following it up but by impeachment; but, perhaps, at the present period of the session, and considering the appearance which the House presented, that course could not be satisfactorily pursued. He should be glad if any better mode of proceeding were suggested. Perhaps the proceedings might be suspended after the committee should have adopted an initiative resolution, which would operate as a warning to the chief baron to apply for permission to be heard at their bar.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion, that as the two reports contained matters of accusation, the chief baron had already been forewarned of the necessity of entering upon his defence; and he had in some measure done so, by the two letters which he had written relative to those reports. He thought it might be an eligible mode to suspend the proceedings, with the view of giving the chief baron an opportunity of making application to be heard at their, bar. Ho would be glad if an hon. and learned gentleman opposite could tell him whether the chief baron was desirous of being heard at the bar? For if it were ascertained that he was not, the committee ought not to stay its proceedings.
 Mr. Hutchinson  contended, that neither himself nor the committee were in a state to pass any resolution tending to affect the character of the chief baron. He respected highly his hon. friend; but he must nevertheless tell him, that as a man of honour, he was bound not to advance a single step further in impugning the conduct of the chief baron, without first establishing his charges by a most solemn investigation at the bar of that House, affording to the learned judge the opportunity of cross-examining witnessess, and stating his own case. Would any man say that he was prepared to pass sentence of condemnation against a high dignified magistrate who for eighteen years had discharged the duties of his high trust with satisfaction to the country on  ex parte
 The Solicitor-General  said, that although he had been a member of the committee above stairs, he had been prevented from attending its proceedings so regularly as he could have wished. Whether, with the advantage of more constant
 1006 1007 1008
 Mr. Hutchinson  suggested, that he had already moved that amendment.
 The Solicitor-Generals  said, that in that case, he would sit down by seconding it.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought, that if there was any difficulty it was not to be obviated by postponement. There were several modes of proceeding. He did not approve of that course which would fix a resolution of censure upon a Judge. It was his opinion, that a person holding such a situation ought to be dismissed altogether, if guilty of the acts laid to his charge, but ought not, under any circumstances, to be partially degraded He did not approve of the mode of proceeding by  scire facias 1011 ad hominem 1012
 Mr. Secretary Peel  denied having said that the smallness of the offence ought to prevent a parliamentary proceeding against a judge. What he had said was, that the smallness of the amount almost precluded the possibility of a corrupt motive.
 The Attorney General  wished the first resolution to be postponed as well as the others. In his opinion, no culpability would attach to the chief born unless it appeared that he had knowing taken improper fees; and according to the report, he had only placed his signature officially to bills of costs that were not taxed, without examining them.
 Mr. Davenport  opposed the motion. He contended, that a more disastrous measure for the country could not possibly be introduced. The present bill proved more than any proposition he ever recollected to have been made to the House, the modern rage for legislation. What did the bill go to do? To overturn, at one blow, that system which their ancestors, for ages, had been anxious to establish. It would raise the interest of money to an unprecedented height, and the effect would be injurious to all classes of society. Those who wished to borrow money on the mortgage of lands, would be more especially affected by it. At present, they could procure money at the rate of 5 per cent; but let this did pass, and they would be charged an exorbitant rate of interest. Gentlemen might say, "If one person in the market won't lend money at a reasonable rate, another will." But this did not apply to persons residing at a remote distance from town, who knew nothing about the money market. He would move as an amendment—"That the bill be committed upon this day three months."
 Mr. Ricardo  argued, that money ought to be placed on the same footing as any other commodity. The lender and borrower ought to be allowed to bargain together, as freely as the buyer and seller did when goods were to be disposed of. The hon. member who spoke last, feared that this measure would place the borrower entirely in the power of the lender. But, did the present laws alter his situation? Certainly not. Means were found to evade the law; for though the law said, "You shall not take more than a certain interest for your money," it could not compel a man to lend at that particular rate; and, therefore, he who wished to borrow at all events, and he who wished to lend at as high a rate of interest as he could get, both conspired to evade the law. These laws operated precisely in the same way as the laws against exporting the coin of the realm. Now, notwithstanding those laws, did not the, exportation of that coin take place? The only, effect of the statutes in that case was, to place the traffic in the hands of characters who had no scruples against taking a false oath. They were encouraged to evade the law and made a great profit by so doing.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that so far from
 1016
 Mr. Philips  hoped the bill would pass. The Committee by which the question was discussed, saw clearly the folly of those laws. Why should the person who had money to lend be placed under more disadvantageous circumstances than his hon. friend would be in regard to transactions in landed property He had heard nothing which could warrant the continuance of the existing law.
 Mr. T. Wilson  agreed with what had fallen from the last speaker. Perhaps, in the present, state of the money market, he should not be entirely disposed to support this measure; but, thinking the existing law highly objectionable, he should vote for it. In Holland, where commercial interests were well understood, there were no usury laws. The fact was, that the interest of money could never be kept at a high rate, while it was left to it self.
 Captain Maberly , seeing the total inefficacy and impolicy of the existing law would also support the measure.
 Mr. F. Palmer  opposed it, conceiving it to be most ruinous to the agricultural interest.
 Mr. W. Smith  supported the motion.
 Mr. Wynn  spoke on the same side, though he would be the last man to support the motion, if he thought it could
 1017
 Mr. Benett , of Wilts, thought that if ever the interest of money should rise in this country above 5 per cent, the bill would be singularly beneficial to the landed interest.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that his object in moving the amendment was, not to evade justice, but to do justice. What he objected to was corning to a decision on the merits of the case, in a state of ignorance With respect to withdraw he was quite ready however, to withdraw his amendment if the committee were disposed to adopt any other course.
 Mr. R. Smith  was apprehensive that the inquiry must stand over until next session. Some notice of the subject however, not of the nature of a prejudgment, ought to appear on the Journals of the House.
 Mr. Wetherell  thought the real question was, in what shape the subject should be abandoned now, in order that it might be resumed afterwards? For his part, he saw no use in agreeing to some of the resolutions, unless the others were also adopted, If it were hot intended to proceed with the investigation this session the better way would be to postpone the whole matter to a future time.
 Mr. Canning , while he admitted that the amendment to the first resolution made it, not a fact, but an inference from the Report of the Commissioners denied that a similar amendment introduced into the succeeding resolutions would have the same effect.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that it was rather extraordinary the hon. member should express an anxiety that the chief baron should not be condemned unheard, and yet should propose an amendment, which would have the effect of preventing his
 1009
 Mr. J. P. Grant  observed, that if he thought the smallness of the amount precluded the probability of a corrupt motive, he Would propose to pronounce that Opinion as the decision of the committee, and not pass the subject entirely over by reporting progress. If, on the contrary, he thought that corrupt motives did exist, he should think that, painful as would be the task, the House ought to proceed.
 Mr. Monck  contended, that the bill was by no means calculated to remedy the evil which it affected to remove; for though any man might erect a new brewery in any town, with the view of selling under the price he found there, still the magistrates would have the power of refusing licences to houses where the new beer might be sold.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the bill, and suggested the propriety of deferring it to the next session, where a committee might
 993
 Captain O'Grady  said, he need not assure the House that he rose under great embarrassment, which was considerably increased by a knowledge that the last time he had addressed the House on this subject, being unused to public speaking and unacquainted with the usages of courts of justice, he had given offence to the chief justice of the King's-bench in Ireland. He now took the earliest opportunity of saying that nothing could be further from his intention than to give the slightest umbrage to a man of such well-merited distinction and undoubted ability. When he was quoting the authority, and as it were, courting the protection of that high authority, it could not of course be his wish to impugn the noble lord's practice, or to cast imputations upon his conduct. It was not his intention to cast a slur upon any individual, and he hoped that the defence of the chief baron could be conducted without it. He was proud to stand forward on this occasion, because he felt conscious that he could vindicate the injured without the necessity of offending any man. He had awaited this discussion with the most intense anxiety—an anxiety wholly arising from a knowledge of the great disadvantage under which the chief baron laboured in having his case intrusted to the hands in which it was now placed. For he solemnly assured the House, that however painful it might be to him, he would have remained silent did he not in his heart think that truth and justice carried with them greater force
 1002 1003 1004 1005
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that in presenting himself to the House, he felt how inadequate he was to the important task which he had considered it his duty to undertake, but having in the discharge of that duty undertaken it, he was aware he had no claim to any other indulgence than a patient attention to the statement which he should submit. There were, however, considerations connected with this subject, which made it of importance. The first was—and to that he should implore the most serious attention of honourable members—that this was a personal question involving the character of a high judicial officer in Ireland; and from those who might defend that character and above all from those who might feel-disposed to affirm the resolutions which he concluded with moving, their duty to the House and the country, and to the high officer, in question, required the most minute attention to the facts of the case There were besides these other grounds on which the question re-
 994 995 996 997 998 999 1000 ex parte 1001
 Mr. S. Rice , to obviate some of the objections which had been made to it, moved the insertion in the fourth Resolution of the words, "appears by, and stated in."
 Mr. S. Rice  stated that in the course
 1010
 Mr. Peel  said, he had expressed an opinion, that the proceeding by impeachment would be better than by address.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that the committee, so far from being called upon to decide the question, had no right to give an opinion upon it he objected strongly
 1013
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he would give no opinion whatever on the merits of the case. If any subsequent proceeding were to take place, there would be abundant opportunities for doing that. The committee had heard as fair and liberal an accusation from the hon. member for Limerick, and as judicious and meritorious a defence from the hon. relative of the chief baron, as any at which he had ever been present. When he (sir J. M.) left the House, which he had been unavoidably compelled to do, he understood that the difficulty was not whether the house should proceed, but as to the manner in which that proceeding should be conducted. But now, from the last part of the right hon. gentleman's speech, he understood there was an objection to ulterior proceedings.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  felt the full force of the  argumentum ad inertiam
 Mr. Scarlett , while he coincided in the spirit of the proposition of his hon. and learned friend, observed, that in a fort-
 1014
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that in his opinion there was no ground for coming to the last resolution; and, indeed, he thought any resolution would be exceptionable which implied a censure, as the reports only related to matters of fact from which no inferences of crimination ought to be drawn, as there was no proof before the committee, that the chief baron might not be entitled to the fees which the reports stated him to have received If the resolution were put to the vote, he f would move an addition, the substance of which would be, that the practice did not appear to 'tie known to the chief baron.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that there could be no difference of opinion, as to the principle upon which the hon. gentleman urged this abolition of the horrible practice referred to. All of them must alike deplore the existence of these melancholy effects of superstition. Considerable difficulty would, however, attend any practical measure which might be adopted, with a view to putting an end to this barbarous custom. The cases of successful interference on the part of other nations, which the hon. gentleman had referred to, were not parallel; since it was evident, that the same experiment, might be safely made in a small possession, which could not be hazarded without great danger in a territory so immense as that which was subject to the British dominion in India. Horrible, however, as the practice was, it was one as old as any known in India. It had existed at least as far back as the time of Alexander the Great; and it had taken such deep hold of the natives, and was founded on such strong feelings connected with the religion of that country, that the feared that any attempt to put an end to it, by force, would be ineffectual. He therefore much doubted, under all the circumstances, policy of legislative interference in a matter which it would be better to leave to the judgment and discretion of the local government.
 Mr. Forbes  said, he had once thought that the practice might be put down by legislative interference, but he had since had reason to alter his opinion, and thought that no regulations would be sufficient to check it. It was the opinion of the marquis of Hastings, that the means which had been taken to prevent, had tended rather to increase, than mitigate the evil. The widows would equally satisfy the barbarous superstition which prevailed in India, by being burned, drowned, or buried alive. If the existing practice could be abolished, the number of victims was not likely to be diminished. He was convinced that force would be of no avail; though he believed that a good deal might be effected by persuasion.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he had no objection to the motion, but he feared that the efforts of the government would be found not to have been more effectual in repressing this practice, than they had been in the case of the immolation of Hindoo widows.
 Mr. S. Rice  presented a petition from the Hibernian Philanthropic Society, praying that the House would take into considera-
 1022
 Sir Gerard Noel  rose for the purpose of moving that the petition which he had on the 3rd of March presented from the Lady calling herself Olive, princess of Cumberland, should be referred to a select committee, She had, he observed, been now for three years applying, but without effect, for the payment of a sum of money alleged to have been bequeathed to her by the will of the late king, which she declared to be necessary for the payment of for ejects. He was afraid he should find it difficult to make himself understood. He was an old member of that House, though he was not an old speaker in it; and he feared that the cause of this lady would not be much advanced by any adventitious aid from any eloquence of his. His was not the eloquence which could make a bad cause appear good; but certainly he ever would have taken up the present if he had not thought it always a good one. Whe-
 1023 1024 "Flectere si nequeo Superos, Acheronta movebo." 1025
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the hon. baronet had imposed upon him a duty of rather an embarrassing nature. The subject was so exceedingly ludicrous, that he really felt called upon to beg pardon of the House for occupying its time regarding it. It seemed that the hon. baronet considered himself acting under the obligation of a royal command, believing the individual for whom he appeared, to be a princess of the blood. Such, certainly, was not his (Mr. Peel's) opinion; and upon the whole, perhaps, the best course he could pursue was, to state that truth, and those facts which it was the object of the hon. baronet to elicit. To pass over the case in silence might, perhaps, confirm groundless suspicions. He would therefore proceed to show, that this lady was either herself practising the most impudent imposture, or that she was the innocent dupe of others. The hon. baronet had omitted to state his case. It was therefore necessary for him (Mr. Peel) to detail it; and he would do so as shortly as possible. There were two brothers of the name of Wilmot; the one, Dr. Wilmot, the other a Mr. Robert Wilmot. The person now claiming to be princess of Cumberland was the daughter of Robert Wilmot. Proof of her birth and baptism existed, and for a considerable time 6he had been contented with this humble origin. But in the year 1817—(very possibly before that date she had pretended to be other personages)—she discovered that she was not the daughter of Robert Wilmot, but of the late duke of Cumberland, brother to his late majesty, Geo. 3rd. She did not then, indeed, pretend that she was the legitimate but the illegitimate daughter; and, in 1817, a petition, signed "Olivia Serres," was presented to his majesty by a person on her behalf, which contained these words—"May it please your royal highness to attend to the attestations which prove this lady to be the daughter of the late duke of Cumberland by a Mrs. Payne, the wife of a captain in the navy. Mrs. Payne was
 1027
 Sir G. Noel  interposed to state, that the late lord Warwick had given the papers in question to the duke of Kent. The petitioner did not obtain them until after the death of lord Warwick.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  added, that they had not been forthcoming until the death of every party whose signatures they purported to bear: even the accoucheur who attended her mother, died in 1818, a year before the claim was advanced. The attesting witnesses were, Mr. Dunning, lord Chatham, and lord Warwick, and their names were used to prove a secret marriage, and the consequent birth of a child in 1772—no other, as was pretended, than the present Mrs. Serres. To account for the long belief that she was really the daughter of Mrs. Wilmot, she asserted that Mrs. Wilmot having bee delivered of a still-born child, the petitioner, the daughter of the duke of Cumberland, was substituted for the sake of concealment, and that Mr. Dunning and lord Chatham had consented to that substitution. The story was full of fabrications from beginning to end. They
 1028 l. l., * * 1029 my 1030 1031
 Sir Gerarà Noel,  in reply, contended that the House ought not to be satisfied by the pleasantry of the statement of the right hon. gentleman. Assertion was no proof. If lord Chatham were out of office, it did not show conclusively that he had not signed the documents bearing his name. If the right hon. gentleman had nothing to fear, why did he not consent to the committee? He should press the, question to a division, if he stood alone, and did not retract an iota of what he had stated.
 The Attorney General  would not now oppose the bill, but he wished to state his objections to the clause which went to relieve every person from the oath of supremacy.
 Mr. Wetherell  said, that he should now content himself with briefly recording his objections to the bill; but in the committee he should feel it his duty to oppose almost every line which it contained. It
 1033
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he could have no objection to the appointment of the committee. On the contrary, he would such a measure his best support; but he feared that if the committee were to employ themselves in considering the practicability of Mr. Owen's plan, however benevolent the intention of that gentleman might be, they would find their time not very well bestowed. At the same time, he trusted they might be able to devise some measure which could be carried into effect.
 Mr. Buxton  next moved, for "Copies of all correspondence which has taken place on the subject, of Hindoo Infanticide, and of all proceedings of the Indian government with regard to that practice."
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose to present a Petition from a most respectable meeting of the gentry, clergy, and other inhabitants of the county of Bedford. It was signed by two thousand four hundred individuals, and the petitioners earnestly implored the House to take such measures as may be deemed most expedient and effectual for putting an end to the practice existing in British India of Immolating Widows alive on the Funeral Pile of their Husbands. The hon. member said, that he was anxious to call the attention of the House to this petition, since it not only came from a most respectable body, but related to a question most interesting to the feelings of humanity. It appeared from the papers upon this subject, which had been laid on the table of the House, as well as from other documents equally authentic, that between eight and nine hundred widows were annually consumed alive in cur East Indian possessions on the funeral pile of their husbands. Surely, then, some attention was due to the subject on the part of the House. It appeared, that some of these dreadful scenes were accompanied with circumstances of the most revolting cruelty. It often happened; that the same day which deprived a son of his father, beheld him the executioner of his mother; and that he was seen applying the torch to the pile which was to consume the bodies of both. It not unfrequently occurred that, when the poverty of the par-
 1018 1019
 Mr. Hume  said, he seconded the motion with great pleasure; not because he had any acquaintance with the petitioner, but because, after what had pablicly occurred on the subject, it appeared to him that her claims had become a serious question which ought to be settled. The petitioner claimed to be a branch of the royal family. Whether she was so or not, he did not know; but ministers, in defence of the dignity of the royal family, ought to take some steps against a supposed or real impostor, who in every newspaper had publicly asserted her right. It appeared that the petitioner was in possession of certain documents, one of them bearing the signatures of his late majesty, of Mr. Dunning, and other witnesses. This appeared to be a good document. The right hon. Secretary seemed to intimate a doubt regarding it: but the signature of Mr. Dunning had been proved by the best evidence that could be found. This document, formed the principal ground on which he (Mr. H.) seconded the motion; for it appeared that his late majesty died without a will, and in common acceptation it appeared to nm that this paper was a will, and that it could be so proved before the proper courts. This lady had been imprisoned for debt, and her creditors had brought her claim into court, demanding to be administrators of the personal property of his late majesty. This ought to have been done by the party who took possession of the personal property of the late king, for there was nothing in law, that he was aware of, that ought to have prevented it. The judge in the court to which the petitioner appealed, had not pretended to deny the authenticity of the documents. He had only said, that he had no authority to take cognizance of the claim. He him himself had seen a document in the late duke of Kent's own hand writing, stating that lord Warwick had told his royal highness the whole transaction, as also that he had been ordered by his late majesty not to disclose it until after his majesty's death. The duke of Kent was so convinced that this statement was true, that, under his own hand-writing, he had promised to pay this woman a certain sum of money; thus showing that he believed her to be the legitimate daughter of his
 1026
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the subject had occupied the attention of the government India, and that as strong measures of prevention had been adopted as could well be taken, without interfering with the religious prejudice's of the people. By
 1020
 Mr. W. Bankes  could not suffer any stage of this bill to pass, without entering his protest against it. He objected to it altogether, notwithstanding the anomaly in the condition of the English and Irish Roman Catholics.
 Mr. Bankes  thought the bill should not proceed until the House was in possession of better information, as to the object of it, than had yet been afforded. The phraseology of the bill was by no means correct or explicit, even as to the purposes suggested by the noble lord himself. Did the noble lord mean to say, that English Roman Catholic subjects were to take no oath at all? Were those subjects not even to be bound by the same obligations as Protestant Dissenters and Church of England men? He contended, that if the bill now introduced should ever pass the House, it would be necessary very considerably to extend the present list of excluded persons. His main objection to the bill referred mainly to the constitution of the British parliament: for he was decidedly adverse to extending to Roman Catholic subjects the elective franchise in any degree. With respect to Scotland, the principle of the noble lord's bill would embrace the repeal of the act of Union.
 Mr. Money  was of the same opinion, and wished the subject to be referred a committee, that some measure might be devised for checking the horrible practice.
 Mr. Peel  said, that in the present bill he saw many objectionable clauses, which he would not, however, discuss in the present stage; but he could not help objecting to the removal of the oath of supremacy on the part of those who were candidates for office. As far as regarded the elective franchise, he had no objection to grant it to the English Roman Catholics without any restriction: but as a qualification for office generally, he considered the oath to be indispensable. The Catholic would otherwise be put on a more favourable footing than the Protestant or Dissenter.
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, it appeared clear to his mind, that if proper means were resorted to, there would be found no greater difficulty in putting an end to this horrible custom, than there had been found in putting an end to a similar practice under the government of marquis Wellesley. He was sorry to find that the practice was increasing, and had' extended itself to places in which it had not formerly existed. As to the sacrifices being voluntary, how could a sacrifice be called voluntary, where the wretched victim was bound down to the stake to prevent the possibility of escape? He hoped that his hon. friend would persevere in his intention of bringing the subject again before the attention of the House.
 Sir G. Hill  said, that he rose for the purpose of expressing his unqualified dissent to the measure. Those who advocated the bill did so from an opinion that the peaceable demeanour of the English Roman Catholics entitled them to at least a participation of equal privileges with those of that persuasion in Ireland, whose conduct was the very reverse. He whished, however, to warn the gentlemen of this country against a measure which had produced such injurious consequences in Ireland, where he would assert, they had not enjoyed one year of substantial tranquility since l793, when the elective franchise had been conceded to the Catholics. Whereas, from 1783 to 1793, when they had no such Privilege, the country was at peace. If this bill was passed, he was convinced that energies
 1032
 Mr. Hobhouse  seeing the attorney-general in his place, took the opportunity of presenting a petition, to which he had already called the attention of his majesty's law officers. The petition came from Mr. R. G. Butt, whose case he should proceed to state as briefly as possible. It would be in the recollection of the House, that Mr. Butt brought actions of false imprisonment against sir N. Conant and Mr. Newman, the keeper of Newgate, having been imprisoned before a bill of indictment was found against him, and that the Jury returned a verdict in his favour with 1 s. l. l. 1075
 The Solicitor-General .—He did not offer to pay it.
 Mr. Hobhouse  resumed. The solicitor-general denied, in a manner not the most courteous, that Mr. Butt had offered to pay the debt. He (Mr. H.) took the liberty to say that he had offered to pay it: but, whether he had or had not was immaterial to the main question. The main question was, the legality of the transaction; and he believed that even the learned solicitor with all the modest assurance which belonged to him, would not venture to stand up in his place, and assert that the Treasury could legally make itself the creditor of an individual, by paying the
 1076
 The Solicitor-General  said, that since the hon. member had mentioned the case on a former day, he had brought the correspondence between Mr. Butt and the Treasury, day after day in his pocket, which, he believed, would have satisfied the House that the Treasury had acted with the greatest moderation and forbearance towards Mr. Butt. Today he had not brought down the letters in question, but he would state the nature of the transaction to the House. Mr. Butt, after having been convicted in the court of King's-bench, published a most offensive libel upon lord Ellen-borough and the marquis of Londonderry, which he caused to be placarded in all parts of the town. The secretary of state sent to sir N. Conant, desiring him to take measures to prevent the continuance of this nuisance. Sir N. Conant accordingly issued a warrant for the apprehension of Mr. Butt, and upon his refusal to give bail, Mr. Butt was committed to Newgate. Mr. Butt having been advised that the whole transaction was illegal, brought actions against sir N. Conant and Mr. Newman, the keeper of Newgate, in the court of Common Pleas, in order to try the legality of the warrant. The case was conducted on the part of sir N. Conant, not by the Treasury, but by sir N. Conant himself and his own solicitor. A special verdict was found, and a special case reserved, in consequence of the great importance of the question, involving, as it did, the legality of another transaction which had been much discussed in that House—he alluded to the well-known circular of lord Sidmouth. The case was elaborately argued in the court of Common Pleas, and the court, after much consideration, were of opinion, that the warrant was legal, and judgment consequently passed against Mr. Butt. As Mr. Butt could not pay the costs, which amounted to 500 l. 1077
 Mr. Hobhouse  denied that the solicitor-general had taken the edge off the case. One point only he had made clear; and that was that the law had been violated; for he had not ventured to maintain that the Treasury had a right to pay the expenses of a private law suit. He begged the House to consider what an engine of oppression such a power might become, if, when magistrates committed any act of injustice and oppression, the government could defend them out of the public purse. It was merely to say, that sir N. Conant and not the Treasury, had defended the action in question. The learned solicitor had talked of the moderation and forbearance of the Treasury. Those qualities belonged only to the just exercise of power, but the Treasury had no just power. They had acted under an usurped authority. It was absurd, therefore, to talk of their moderation and forbearance.
 The Attorney General  repeated the statement of the solicitor-general, and contended that the conduct of the Treasury was neither unjust nor illegal, in remunerating sir N. Conant for expenses which he had incurred, at the instance of
 1078
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he had founded his opinion of its being illegal to hold individuals to bail on charges of libel, upon the authority of lord Camden; and trusted that the House would not attach too much weight to the counter decision of the court of Common Pleas, when he informed them, that in that court, for the first time since the Revolution, a judge had ventured to stand up for the character of the Judges who had tried the Seven Bishops, and to state, as Mr. Justice Park had done, that lord Camden had, in particular, pressed too hard upon the character of that wretch, Mr. Justice Allybone. He understood well what was meant by the sneer of the learned attorney-general; but he would tell him, that he did not think the opinion of the law-officers of the Crown, on a point where the liberty of the subject was concerned, to be worth that! [Snapping his fingers]. Every body knew for what purpose they were sent into that House; every body knew out of what wood it was that an attorney and solicitor-general were hacked.  Ex quovis ligno fit Mercurius. 1079
 Mr. Curwen  objected to the motion, and maintained that not the slightest imputation could rest upon the barrister who, with so much ability, presided over the county court of Middlesex.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  was of Opinion, that a committee could not be better employed that in inquiring into the establishment of this court, and whether it could not be improved and the salaries diminished.
 Sir Byam Martin  defended the principle of promotion adopted in the navy. He asserted it to be unconnected with parliamentary influence, and said, that out of seven promotions which had taken place in one batch, two only, were the friends of persons who supported the present administration.
 Mr. F. Palmer  thought it right that, in such a case as the present, some attention ought to be paid to public opinion. Whether officers were promoted on parliamentary influence or were not, an inquiry ought to be instituted.
 Captain Gordon  vindicated the promotion of midshipmen as being indispensably necessary for the good of the service.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, that the only grounds of promotion ought to be merit and standing in the service; and on this ground he was at issue with those who advocated the existing system. The gallant admiral near him had compared
 1099
 Mr. Secretary Cunning  said, he had always thought, that the reverse of the hon. gentleman's proposition was the one which was most generally accepted; namely, that we were disposed to extol past times at the expense of the present. He was of opinion, that the case of the hon. mover had been most triumphantly met by his hon. and gallant friend near him. So ably had his hon. and gallant friend justified the principle of selection adopted by the admiralty, that what had been charged as abuse, had turned out to be merit. He considered the question to be resolved into this—whether promotion should go by seniority altogether, or whether a portion of it should be left open to discretion? He contended that the statement of the hon. member had not at all borne out the case which he had pledged himself to establish. With regard to the present state of the navy, he believed that very little difference of opinion existed. He thought that the present plan of the service was the best which could be devised to preserve the glory of the navy in time of war, and to maintain it in peace; and that it was in perfect analogy with the mixed principles of the British constitution.
 Mr. Western  said, that he rose to submit to the House a motion which involved in its consequences, matters of very great importance. The object of it, as his notice indicated, went to an alteration in the Constitution of Juries, in so far at least as related to the qualification (by possession of property) of those who may be called upon to perform the important functions of a juror. personal real s. s. 1104 l. l. l. l. l. lowest 1105 l. l. l.
 Mr. Lester  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, the question was of such vital importance, that he certainly should not oppose the bringing in of the bill, though he hoped the hon. member would allow ample time for its consideration. The House would recollect that last year an experiment had been made of the benefit likely to accrue from the establishment of a third assize, This had been found completely successful in the home counties, and it was most desirable that it should be extended to all. It was, however so closely bound up with the measure which the hon. member for Essex had in had that they ought to watch with caution how far the one was likely to impede the other. 1106 l. l. l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he would not rest his objection to the committee, on any wish to conceal from the House the manner in which the sum expended on the coronation had been applied. There was no wish of that kind on the part of government: indeed, it was not imputed that any misapplication had taken place, though an imputation had been cast of a desire for concealment. With respect to the first estimate being so much less than the sum subsequently expended, he would say, that many of the services at the coronation performed by the household were abolished by Mr. Burke's bill, and no traces were left as to what the expenses of particular departments would be likely to create. They were left almost to guess in many instances; so that there could be no certainly as to the whole sum: and when in 1820, it was fixed at 100,000 l. l. l. l. 1109 l. l. l. 1110 l. l. l. 1111
 Sir F. Ommanney  arose amidst loud cries of "question!" mixed with symptoms of disapprobation. We understood him to suggest to the lords of the admiralty the propriety of advancing officers in the navy according to seniority. He particularly recommended to their lordships' consideration that valuable class of officers, who acted as masters and masters mates. He wished to know from the gallant admiral near him, how many masters had been promoted since the war? He felt deeply upon this question, as his own father had been greatly ill-used, and exposed to the most galling and heart-breaking neglect. He trusted that the government of the country would afford protection to those brave officers who had
 1100
 Mr. Hume  said, he should not delay the House with many observations, as he had, in reality, little to answer. What he contended for had been admitted by the gallant admiral (sir G. Cockburn), and declared by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) to be a most triumphant answer to the charges made; namely, that promotion in the navy was given to branches of noble families and to parliamentary interest; "that it was to that class the country must look for its safety and the House its defence." He refused his assent to that principle, as a new and dangerous one, and contended that merit and length of service were the principles on which promotion in the navy had, in better times, been made, and had raised the navy to its late pre-eminence; and it was on officers so promoted that the country could best rely in the hour of danger. Were not lords St. Vincent, Exmouth, Duncan, Nelson, &c. examples? If every man of family who chose to enter the navy were, agreeably to the gallant officer's declaration, to be intitled to promotion, on his simply passing the number of years required by the service, he trembled for the British navy at no distant period, and he protested against such proceedings—It had been asserted confidently, that a large portion of the promotions had been given to merit, and part only to parliamentary and family interest: in one instance, six to one. But whilst he agreed in the propriety of joining those claims, he contended, that the examination of the navy list would show, that merit and length of service had got but a very small share of the employment or
 1101 1102
 Mr. Hume  now rose to submit his motion on this subject. His objection, he observed, was not so much to the amount of the money expended, as to the principle of its application. A part of it, the House was aware, was paid out of the money given by France as indemnity to this country. The whole sum amongst the several allied powers was 750,000,000 of francs, of which 125,000,000 were paid as our portion. In 1816, the House were told that details would be given of the application of the sums received by this country. The House, however, did not hear of it till 1821, when the late Chanceller of the Exchequer stated, that there were 500,000 l. l 1107 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1108 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the motion, of which he had given notice, was a very important
 1080 1081 1082 
 
 Admirals 10 
 Vice-Admirals 19 
 Rear-Admirals 19 
 Captains 444 
 Commanders 160 
 Lieutenants 1409 
 Making a total of 2061 Officers. 
 
 Admirals 67 
 Vice-Admirals 68 
 Rear-Admirals 75 
 Captains 850 
 Commanders 803 
 Lieutenants 3994 
 Marking a total of 5857 Officers. 
 
 Admirals 59 
 Vice-Admirals 64 
 Rear-Admirals 70 1083 
 
 Captains 829 
 Commanders 814 
 Lieutenants 3720 
 Making a total of 5556 Officers 1084 1085 l. l. l. l. 1086 1087 1088 
 
 Date of Commission at Commander. Officers passed over. Sea Service in peace. 
 J. Gore May, 1808 125 3 ys. 3 mths. 
 J. C. Carpenter April, 1809 137 1 ys. 4 mths. 
 R. Hockings April, 1809 137 1 ys. 10 mths. 
 G. B. Allen July, 1809 144 2 ys. 3 mths. 
 J. Cod May, 1810 158 4 ys. 0 mths. 
 R. L. Colson June, 1810 166 4 ys. 3 mths. 
 Edw. Lloyd May, 1811 194 2 ys. 11 mths. 
 J. Gedge Sept. 1811 211 4 ys. 8 mths. 
 B. M. Kelly Nov. 1811 213 2 ys. 10 mths. 
 H. F. Jauncey Feb. 1812 216 4 ys. 3 mths. 1089 
 
 Date of Commission. 
 George Luke June 23, 1794 
 George Robinson Nov. 5, 1794 
 J. Johnson April 27, 1801 
 J. Douglas April 29, 1802 
 James Grant Jan. 12, 1805 
 W. J. Hughes Sept. 25, 1806 
 Wm. Coote May 6, 1807 
 B. Warburton Dec. 16, 1807 
 H. C. Thompson Aug. 29, 1808 
 C. Beacroft Oct. 3, 1809 
 H. N. Rowe May 2, 1810 
 T. L. R. Laugharne Feb. 12, 1811 
 J. H. Garrety May 3, 1811 1090 1091 that 1092 five 1093 
 1. "That it appears, by returns to this House, that there were 3,994 lieutenants, 813 commanders, and 851 post-captains, on the list of the royal navy, in January 1816, and that, notwithstanding so great a number of officers on the list, there has been, between 1st January 1816 and the 8th of January 1823, an additional number of 860 promotions (exclusive of post-captains to be admirals), viz. of 513 midshipmen to be lieutenants, of 222 lieutenants to he commanders, and of 125 commanders to be post-captains: and that although peace has existed for seven years, there were on the 8th January 1823, 3,720 lieutenants, 814 commanders, and, 829 post-captains on the list of the royal navy; a number more than sufficient to officer a fleet of twice the number of ships of every description in the british navy, if they were all at sea at the same time. 2 "That there are 814 commanders on the list of the royal navy, and 57 of them now on full pay, of whom only 7 were promoted during the last ten years active warfare (from 1803 to 1813), and 50 who have been promoted since June 1814, the termination of the war in Europe. 1094 3 "That many of the promotions have been made in the royal navy without due regard either to the length of service, to the merit of the midshipmen and officers, or to the efficiency and advantage of the navy, and that the expense of the half-pay of the officers of the navy, necessarily great after a long war, has been thereby greatly and unnecessarily increased to the country. 4 "That there were 6,949 officers and men in the corps of royal marines in January 1816, and 8,494 in January 1823, being an increase of that corps of 1,545 men and officers in seven years; but there were only 5 first commissions granted, and 32 promotions to higher rank, in that period. 5 "That there were 950 pursers on the list of the royal navy in January 1816, and 747 in January 1823, showing a decrease of 203 in the seven years, exclusive of 16 pursers added to the list in that time. 6 "That an humble address be therefore presented to his majesty, that he will be graciously pleased to direct an inquiry to be made into the manner in which the right hon. the lords of the admiralty have exercised their power, both as regards the placing on full pay those officers already on the list, and the promotion of the several officers to higher rank in the navy, since the peace in 1815."
 Mr. Denman  could not understand how the Treasury had a right to apply the public money to the buying up of the debts of an individual, and thereby to keep him in prison at their pleasure. He trusted that a proceeding like the present would not be repeated; as it gave to the government an unlimited power of oppression.
 Mr. James  observed, that the individuals whom the gallant admiral had seen, and whom he represented to be so fat and sleak in condition, must be individuals who lived on the taxes.
 Mr. James  said, he had a Petition to present from 3,107 inhabitants of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, comprising many respectable tradesmen, but for this most part the mechanics and artisans, on whom in case of need, the country depended for defence, complaining that they were excluded from the share to which men
 1073
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that the hon. member; while he stated himself to be a friend to the navy, had advocated principles which would be destructive to the service which he affected to uphold. He was sure that any one who had paid attention to the means by which the glory of the British navy had been achieved, would be convinced that the principles laid down by the hon. member would, if I they had been acted upon hitherto, never have allowed it to have attained its present high and splendid pre-eminence. The hon. member had set out with high sounding calculations, but the number of abuses which he had been able to allege was very small. He had laid great stress on the numbers promoted by interest and family connexions; but he (sir G. C.) considered it of great moment that persons of rank and importance in the country should be induced to enter the service. When persons, born to every advantage that society could afford, chose to abandon the comforts of which they were in possession, to fag with others
 1095 1096 1097 1098
 Sir I. Coffin  expressed his belief that the hon. member and the petitioners, were labouring under mental delusion. He did not know where the distress and misery of which they talked existed. For his own part, he never saw in any other country so many fat, sleek, well-clad, and contented looking people as he saw in England.
 Sir Isaac Coffin  contended, that the system of promotion at present pursued was much superior to the old one, and adverted to the condition of the fleet that sailed under commodore Byron in the American war, when there were officers on board who had not seen the salt sea for 16 or 17 years. He was convinced, that the happy mixture of different orders which composed the naval service, enabled us single-handed to fight the world.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in submitting to the committee a vote for the erection of a new building, for the reception of his late majesty's Library, at the British Museum, observed, that he supposed the gentlemen whom he then addressed had read the report relative to the magnificent donation of his majesty. That report fully stated the reasons why his late majesty's library should be placed in the custody of those who presided over the British Museum. Though he had not, in consequence of the pressure of public business, been able constantly to attend the meetings of the committee from, whom that report had emanated, he was yet satisfied, from the discussions which had taken place there, and from the concurrent feeling of all those whom he had consulted on the subject, that the most convenient situation, in every respect, for the disposition of that library, was under the roof, of the British Museum. But the committee was, perhaps, aware, that the state of the British Museum was such as rendered it perfectly incapable of containing the treasure winch the bounty of the sovereign had bestowed upon his people. If, there fore, the library were attached to the British Museum, it would be necessary that means should be found to provide a suitable building for its reception. The
 1113 l. l.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that in objecting to the motion, he did so with considerable diffidence, considering the superior information on this subject which Was possessed by those gentlemen who formed the committee, and who had drawn up the report. Still, however, he had many and great objections to the proposition of the right hon. gentleman, which he felt himself bound to state to the committee. In the first place he wished it to be understood, that he made no objection what-
 1114 l. l. l. 1115 1116 1117 recherchá 1118 l.
 Sir C. Long  said, that although he gave the hon. gentleman credit for the motives which had prompted the appeal he had just made, he must differ from him with respect to the intention of his majesty, which, he belived, was, to render a service to the public, and which it was the duty of the House to make as conformable as possible to the public convenience. The on gentleman, in calling the library of the British Museum, one of the most complete in Christendom, had greatly over-rated it. It was, in fact, only the fifth or sixth public library in Europe. It consisted of only 125,000 volumes, and must therefore be called almost insignificant, when compared with that of Paris, which appeared by the catalogue published last year, to contain 450,000 volumes. He would not be understood to depreciate the British Museum library, which was highly curious and interesting, but which was incomplete as a general collection. It was necessarily so; having been formed from the private collections of persons, whose object in making them had been to illustrate some favourite branch of science. Whereas, the library of his late majesty was, on the contrary, perhaps the most complete, for its extent, that had ever been formed. It was obvious, therefore, that this must be in every respect, a valuable acquisition; and he believed he was authorized in saying, that his majesty would prefer its being added to that of the British Museum. The quietest place was assuredly the best for purposes of study; but the hon. gentleman would choose the noisiest spot perhaps in London. He had never met with any one who thought that Whitehall Chapel would be a convenient place for a national library. It had, besides, been used upwards of a century for the celebration of divine service; and if it were now converted into a library, a considerable sum must in consequence be expended, in building a church for the use of the guards.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, there were two questions put in issue, in the vote before the House, which his hon. friend, the mover of the amendment, had not sufficiently distinguished, The first was, the union of the two libraries, and the other, the proper site of the building in which they were to be contained. The House must recollect, that the British Museum, whether the king's library should be united to that which it already contained or not,
 1120 1121 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1122 1123
 Mr. Lennard  entirely concurred in the propriety of uniting the two libraries.
 Mr. R. Colburne  was decidedly in favour of a union of the two libraries. He rejoiced to hear that they were about to lay the foundation stone of a national gallery of paintings. It was rather singular that this was the only country in Europe which did not possess such an establishment, although by far the richest in the world in that branch of the arts.
 Mr. Croker  regretted that he should be obliged to differ however slightly from his right hon. friend (sir G. Long), whose speech upon the present occasion was such as was to be expected from the elegant acquirements and refined taste of his right hon. friend. He (Mr. Croker) was anxious so to shape their proceedings as if possible to obviate certain objections which had been started on the other side. With this view, he suggested the propriety of omitting the words which directed that the new building should be erected in that disgraceful place known by the name of the British Museum. He was most desirous that there should be erected a building worthy of the magnificent bequest of his majesty: but he could not enter into that huckster-like feeling which recommended that a part of the library should be disposed of; and the less so when he found that the trustees were at the same time applying for a grant of 40,000 l. 1124 1125 "So when some cit his weak invention racks "To dine, like peers, at Boodle's or Almack's; "Three roasted geese salute th' astonished eyes, "Three legs of mutton, and three butter'd pies." 1126
 Mr. Bankes,  as an individual connected with the important trusts of which the management of the British Museum was the principal object, felt that a very per-sonal attack had been made upon him—
 Mr. Croker  disclaimed any intention of making a personal attack.
 Mr. Bankes  said, that however that might be, the hon. gentleman had not been very scrupulous to adhere to facts as they now stood; and, from the total error under which he appeared to labour as to the internal arrangement of the Museum, he was apt to suppose that the hon. gentleman had not very lately visited that establishment. He had described the forms of the rooms in a manner totally at variance with the fact. First, with respect to the Townley Venus, it was placed in a kind of rotunda, which had no more resemblance to the form of their table than a circle had to a square. A second mistake of the hon. gentleman was, his description of the building said to be fitted up for the reception of Memnon's head, but which had in reality been fitted up for the reception of two curiosities, one of which was an extraordinary sarcophagus, which had been given by his majesty. Again, with respect to the staircase, which had afforded the hon. member an opportunity of lugging in the battle of Copenhagen and lord Nelson head and should he had only to say, that the joke, however apparently good, was lost; inasmuch as the staircase of the British Museum was not of wood but of stone, and was considered the handsomest thing in the metropolis, being curiously supported upon the principle of a half arch. The hon. gentleman then entered into a general defence of the conduct of the trustees, and declared his intention of opposing the amendment.
 Sir C. Long  defended the conduct; of the trustees, and said that the hon. secretary of the Admiralty was completely misinformed as to what had passed in the committee.
 Mr. Bennet  complained of the want of convenience which was felt in the British Museum, and said that much money had been expended on that building to very little purpose.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said be should vote with the chancellor of the exchequer.
 1127
 Mr. Maberly  thought, that the disposition of the money which was to be expended in a new building should be placed in the hands of a committee.
 Mr. Hobhouse  rose to withdraw his motion. He would take that opportunity of observing, that his hon. and learned friend had attacked, not anything, certainly, which he (Mr. H.) had stated, but something which he had himself advanced. Like Tom Thumb, "he made the giants first, and then he killed them." His hon. and learned friend had broached a plan which was as liable to objection as any that had been proposed from any other quarter [a laugh].
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that being friendly to the general principle of the bill, he conceived this to be the proper stage at which to offer his objections to the course taken by the noble lord. The objects of the bill were three-fold; first, the elective franchise; secondly, the qualification for certain offices; and thirdly, the qualification for a place in a corporation. With respect to the first, he had no objection whatever that the Roman Catholics of this country should be placed upon a footing with their Irish brethren in that respect: but it should be observed, that they now enjoyed the elective franchise, unless indeed one of the candidates should propose to the sheriff to put the oaths of supremacy and allegiance to the voters. For himself, he had no possible objection to the repeal of the 7th and 8th of William, by which the Catholics of England were affected. But the motion of the noble lord went to repeal the oath of supremacy in England, leaving only the sacramental tests in force; now, this was not placing the Irish and English Catholics upon the same footing inasmuch as all persons in Ireland who filled the higher offices were obliged to take both. With respect to the oath of abjurati also, there could be no objection; as it only called upon the parties to declare that no foreign potentate or power held, or ought to hold, spiritual or temporal authority in these realms, contrary to the laws and constitution of the country. With respect to the other tests, why, he would ask, should a magistrate refuse to take the same oaths which were imposed upon the lord chancellor and the other officers of the first distinction in this country? If he might presume to advise the noble lord, he would recommend him to divide his bill into two parts, separating the clause which went to give the elective franchise from the other parts of the measure. He hoped, indeed, that the noble lord would confine himself to the principles upon which he grounded the introduction of the bill. The noble lord had been totally silent with respect to the Catholics of Scotland.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he had stated in an early part of the session, that it was not his intention, after its termination, to propose any thing in the nature of another lottery. He had expressly intimated, however, that he should have to bring forward a lottery proposition on the present occasion; and, remembering what was the apparent feeling of the House when he had last mentioned the subject, he trusted no objection would be taken to the resolution he had now to submit: more particularly as it was but just, that the parties principally interested in this department of the public revenue should not be taken, as it were, by surprise. He would therefore move, "That towards raising the supply granted to his majesty, the commissioners of his majesty's Treasury be authorised to contract with any person or persons for the sale of any number of tickets, to be drawn in one or more lottery or lotteries, not exceeding 60,000, at such price, and under such rules and regulations, as the said commissioners shall think proper."
 Mr. Wetherell  opposed the motion.
 Mr. Canning  recommended the noble lord to divide his bill into two parts. The question respecting the elective franchise would then be discussed on its own merits. He would also recommend the noble lord to confine his bill to the precise principle stated in his notice; namely, to place the English Catholics on the same footing with the Irish Roman Catholics.
 Lord Nugent  rose, merely to say, that in consequence of the suggestions of the right hon. secretary of state for the home department, and feeling the value of his support, he certainly, should shape his proposition in the manner that would ensure it his entire support. He (lord N.) cared but little as to the machinery by which these measures of obvious justice were to be gained, in the principle of which the right hon. gentleman had expressed his concurrence with him. Looking only to the substantial benefit to be gained by the measure, he should certainly conform himself strictly to the suggestion the right hon. gentleman had thrown out. He disliked as much as ever, the imposing any particular form of oath upon the Roman Catholics exclusively. But he did not see any great objection, if the right hon. gentleman wished it, to the making the Roman Catholics repeat, for the privilege of enjoying office, the oath which they now took, or were supposed to take, for the privilege of ex-
 1139
 Lord Nugent  said, it was his intention to introduce a specific clause with respect to Scotland.
 Lord Nugent , on rising to move the order of the day for the committing of this bill, said;—I trust the House will indulge me with leave to make a few observations. When I first offered to the House, the observations that occurred to me in its support, I stated, that I had carefully avoided all communication with those who were principally the objects of it. I stated then, as I feel still, that I should have very much regretted the seeing them petition for any act of imperfect toleration like this. I should have very much regretted the placing them within so painful
 1128 sine qua non 1129 1130 against 1131 one all 1132 B. A. 1133 1134 1135 1136 1137
 Mr. H. Bankes  opposed the motion. The principle of extending the elective franchise formed his strong objection to the measure.
 Mr. Brougham  thought the hon. member for Cambridge had better reserve his objections until the bill went into a committee. He agreed with the right hon. secretary, that the bill ought to be divided into two parts, which might be effected by moving in the ordinary way an instruction to the committee for that purpose. There could be little doubt that the first part of the bill, relative to the elective franchise, would pass if it formed a separate measure. If the other part of the bill should not pass, the Catholics would have lost nothing; they would be in precisely the same state as before.
 Mr. Leycester  opposed the resolution. He observed, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had endeavoured to recommend his proposition, by stating that it was the last session in which he should have to bring it forward. But why was the country to be infected with this moral pestilence for another year, seeing the misery and vice which it disseminated in every part of the kingdom.
 Mr. W. Bankes  opposed the bill, because he considered it as the first step to ulterior and dangerous concessions.
 The Solicitor General  expressed his astonish men t, that the hon. and learned member who had presented the petition, did not state why the original balance against the petitioner was reduced from 9,129 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 1142
 Mr. Grey Bennet  thought, that the public was always a loser by the slow passing of accounts. He thought that the public offices had been much stinted with regard to clerks, and hoped that this inconvenience would be remedied next session.
 The Attorney General  said, that the petitioner did not arrive, as he asserted, from India in the year 1806, but in the year 1807; neither was he sent for He came of his own accord, and he know his accounts were the first investigated.
 Mr. Pitt , in his speech of the 31st of January, 1799, says, of Ireland, Whoever considers the state of Ireland, in the hostile division of its sects, in the animosities existing between ancient settlers and original inhabitants, in the unfortunate degree of want of civilization, which marks that country more than almost any
 1181 to give will 1182 extend will 1183 1184 * * "Every part of the soil of Ireland, every person inhabiting that soil, were justified in seeking redress, not soliciting it at their hands, but demanding it as a right. Why did they unite with Ireland, unless they meant to give her a Union in the advantages and participation in the constitution of this country, as well as in the name? When they consented to the Union, they were bound, in the sight of God and man, to provide for the happiness of that country; and, unless they faithfully discharged that duty, they usurped a power over it they had no right to exercise.— Parliamentary Debates, 1185
 Mr. Robertson  considered, that much of the misery and discontent which was felt by the great body of the people of Ireland arose from the immense difference, in point of numbers, which existed between them and that portion of the population which was favoured by the state. If was not consistent with human nature, that six millions of people should sit down quietly under disqualifications, while 600,000 of their fellow-countrymen were admitted to the enjoyment of rights and privileges to which they conceived themselves to be equally entitled. They had reduced, the Catholics to a state of slavery worse than the Helots of ancient times; and then they affected to wonder at their discontent. They had oppressed them, and, spread dissention through every family in the kingdom, and yet they asked, why were not the people of Ireland peaceable and contented? Besides, in what way had they relaxed the odious penal code? Never but in periods of distress; when the enemy were on their coasts; when the French and Spanish navy rode triumphant in the Channel—an ominous occurrence which might recur in the present state of the world—and when the government were reluctantly compelled to arm that people in the defence of the kingdom whom they had previously degraded and oppressed. It was fear, not policy, which influenced the conduct of the government. For Mr. Fitagerald had shortly before in vain tried to introduce a bill into the before in vain tried to introduce a bill into the Irish parliament to enable Catholics to hold 61 years leasea pr real property, which an unfeeling government had rejected, although in the moment of danger which followed, they extended to them leases of 999 years. How were the people of any nation to be graceful for such misgovernment, or for concessions so wrung from the land of power? Again and again he
 1196 1197
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he cordially concurred in every thing which had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, and from his hon. friend who moved the amendment. The hon. gentleman who spoke last had truly described the sad tale of proscription, exclusion, and suffering, which the page of Irish history recorded. Concessions had been made, it was true; but always with a bad grace. It was only when the government were struck with terror and dismay, that they had relaxed the severe restrictions imposed upon the Catholics. Much as he deplored the condition of Ireland—ready as he was, though with pain and anguish, to extend the protection now sought for, to the resident gentry, surrounded as they were with conflagration and outrage—yet still, if the motion for a committee were pressed to a division, it should carry his vote, from his extreme anxiety to promote, in every possible manner, an inquiry into the distracted state of his unhappy country. The ministers said, it was too late in the session for inquiry. Did these ministers, who said so; receive, as every body else did, daily accounts of the dreadful situation of Ireland; and, if they did, were they justified in denying immediate inquiry. The condition of Ireland must be probed to the bottom. Things could not go on as they were, unless they were determined to precipitate the ruin of Ireland, and bring perdition upon the empire.
 Mr. Bankes  said, that every gentleman who had spoken during this debate had, however they differed upon other matters, concurred in the necessity of some measure like the present; except the hon. member for Grampound, who, like a northern metaphysician, had reasoned upon the question in a manner which would apply to any other subject, just as well as this. The disease of Ireland was an insurrection of those who had no property against those who had; and a deep-laid conspiracy of the majority of the religious
 1198
 Colonel Davies  supported the proposition for a committee. If it sat but for a week, nay, a single day, it would be of service, since it would show the people that parliament took some interest in the state of Ireland. The right hon. gentleman had taken the same course as his predecessors had done. He regretted the necessity which existed for proposing such coercive measures, and promised an inquiry at some future day. The same thing had been done by every chief secretary for the last twenty years. Still, nothing of a conciliatory nature was attempted. He held in his hand an address from the grand jury of Cork. Their cry was "force! force! force!" but not a word did they say about conciliation. Ireland was reduced to a most deplorable state through mis-government. He was convinced, that if the government of this country made the English peasantry suffer one half the misery which was inflicted on the people of Ireland, they would soon be converted from friends into bitter foes. The law was much more impartially administered in this country. In Ireland, the law was often made the engine by which the rich man oppressed and bore down the poor one. With respect to Catholic Emancipation, he thought it should be conceded. That question had, sometimes, been brought on in a shape that did not please him, and that was undoubtedly contrary to the feelings of a large portion of the people of England. But, if it were shown, that it was intended merely to restore the Catholics to their civil rights, without extending their political influence, he was sure the people of England had too great a regard for justice, to oppose such a proposition. While the present system continued, and this country remained at peace with the rest of Europe, there would be constant disturbances and rebellion in Ireland. And if, in furtherance of their despotic projects, the Holy Alliance thought proper to declare war against Great Britain, the first point of attack would be Ireland. Every effort ought, therefore, to be made, to conciliate the population of that country.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that his only motive for consenting to continue the Insurrection act was, that the repealing it might discourage the well-affected in Ireland. At the same time, he thought that the House was bound to inquire into the causes of the discontents which prevailed in that country. He regretted that his hon. friend had not brought forward his motion at an earlier period of the session; because it then would not have been liable to those objections with respect to time, which were now urged against it. He conceived that the disturbances in Ireland originated in the state of degradation in which the people were placed by the bad system of government which existed in that country. He did not think that any benefit would arise from a relaxation of the severity of the laws. On the contrary, he believed that tranqullity could only be obtained by a rigorous but just administration of the laws.
 Mr. Dennis Browne  said, he would vote
 1199
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that as no member had questioned the propriety of passing the Insurrection act, it was not necessary for him to defend that measure. It had been said, that the government were deceiving themselves, when they supposed that that act would operate as a cure for the discontent and misery of Ireland. A cure—good God! who could be so infatuated as to suppose that that measure was intended, as a cure? It was only meant as a temporary measure to meet a pressing emergency. With respect to the proposition of the hon. baronet, calling for a committee, he would only put it to the House, whether they could, at that period of the session, on the 24th day of June, enter into an inquiry such as the hon. baronet called for? An inquiry into the question of finance would of itself take up three months. Then there was the question of education, and an inquiry into the administration of the laws. He submitted to the House, that it would be perfectly idle, at that period of the session, to go into such an inquiry. He thought that ministers had been, rather hardly dealt with by hon. gentlemen in the course of the present discussion. During the last session, the great complaints of Ireland, as urged in that House, were excessive
 1202
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he was sure the House would concur with him in thinking that it was quite unnecessary, either for the hon. baronet, or the hon. member who followed him, to offer any apology for delivering their sentiments upon this subject. Connected, as they were, with that part of the empire to which it particularly related, and bound, as they were, as members of parliament, to watch lover the interests of every part of the community, it would have been rather a dereliction of duty to have forborne an expression of their sentiments. Still less would it be necessary for the hon. baronet who moved the amendment to express doubts as to his own competence for such a discussion; for, without presuming to offer any thing like flattery to that hon. baronet he was bound to say, that nothing had fallen from him that was not deserving of the serious attention of the House. The hon. baronet had, at the commencement of his speech, somewhat inconsistently stated, that the motion which he had now made, by way of amendment (the effect of which, if carried, would be, to prevent the second reading of the insurrection bill) was not intended to obstruct the passing of the bill, but was rather for the purpose of affording an opportunity of
 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191 1192 1193
 Mr. Grattan  seconded the motion. The system of governing Ireland by force had, he said, been tried long enough to prove that it was of no effect. Every means having the character of coercion had been readily granted by parliament. Insurrection acts, the constabulary act, special commissions, sessions extraordinary, an addition of nine or ten thousand troops, and all had been found not to do in two counties one half of the military force of Ireland had been busily occupied. The hopes held out of quelling the disturbances by this act never had been, nor ever would be, realized. It was not education that was
 1186
 Mr. Croker  agreed fully with the hon. member for Shrewsbury in his ideas. The accounts even had not been in dispute since the year 1794; they were brought into the office in the year 1808. For his part, he could bear the most unequivocal testimony, not only to the integrity, but also to the celerity and zeal of the Victualling board. He thought, that, for peace sake, a greater degree of indulgence had been shown to the petitioner than was consistent with strict propriety.
 Mr. J. Smith  would not make any apology for addressing the House on this occasion,
 1194 l. 1195
 Mr. Hume  thought, that this was a fair specimen of the manner in which the public accounts were passed.
 Mr. R. Martin  wished to know why his hon. friend had not submitted his motion at the commencement of the session, rather than at the present moment. He was of opinion, that the identifying of the motion for a committee with the Insurrection act, he meant as to time, would have an extremely mischievous effect. The rebels would suppose that every member who supported his hon. friend's motion, approved of their illegal proceedings. He believed in his conscience, that the government distributed offices in Ireland equally between Catholics and Protestants. With respect to Catholic Emancipation, he would say, that if it were agreed to by parliament, it would not induce one rebel to lay down his arms. He believed, that, if the hon. member for Grampound were sent to the rebels of Munster to promise them Catholic Emancipation as an inducement to lay down their arms, captain Rock would order his head to be cut off.
 Mr. Denman  entered his protest against the right hon. secretary's insinuation, that no one doubted the wisdom of passing the Insurrection act on the present occasion. Whenever, and as often as a proposal for renewing it, for however short a period, should be made in parliament, be would lift his voice against it, even if he stood alone.
 Mr. Denman  was of opinion, that what had been said by the law officers of the Crown did not satisfactorily account for the delay that had appeared in the transaction. He would therefore move "that the petition be laid on the table and printed." 1143 l., 1144 l. s l. s. d 1145 l. s. d., l. s. d l. s. d. s. d. l. s. d., l. s. d., l. s. l. l. s. l. s., l. s. d. l. s. 1146 l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. l. s. d.; l. s. d., l. s. d., l. s d. l. 1147 l. s. d., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. l. s. d. l.,
 Mr. Denman  said, he rose to present a petition from the hon. Basil Cochrane, complaining of the irregular and oppressive mode of doing business, as pursued by
 1140 l., l., l., l., l. s. d. l. l. l. . 1141
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought, that the charge of delay on the part of the victualling board, remained untouched. The system pursued by the board was at once oppressive to the individual, and prejudicial to the public.
 Mr. W. Smith  contended, that the government had already been pledged to an inquiry into the state of Ireland, a resolution to that effect having passed in that House six weeks ago. With respect to the measures that had been proposed by ministers during the present session, he looked upon them as calculated merely to throw dust in the eyes of the public. Never was there a case which more strongly called for inquiry. Six millions of people were denied the rights of the constitution; while one million ate up all the patronage, the honours and power of the country. In such a state of things, it was impossible that permanent tranquillity could be restored. An allusion had been made to the church establishment. It was said, that it was too late in the session to commence an inquiry into the state of Ireland, but why had not that inquiry been entered upon more early? He hoped it would not be long delayed; and under that, impression, be would, how ever reluctantly, give his vote in favour of the bill.
 Mr. Speaker ;—I do not feel, that the House will require from me any justification of my conduct, when I propose to it to adopt a different course of proceeding in respect to Ireland, from that which the right hon. gentleman has called upon it to pursue. Because, if ever there was a time when it was the duty of every member belonging to Ireland to come forward and offer his opinion to the consideration of the House, the present circumstances of that country call upon them to do so; and if I were to remain silent on this occasion, feeling as I do, that much more is absolutely necessary to be done than what the right hon. gentleman proposes to do, I should be guilty of nothing short of a great neglect of my public duty. Parliament is highly interested in every thing which may tend finally to put down disturbances, to compose discontent, and to conciliate the affections of the people of Ireland; and, therefore, let the merits of the motion be what they may, which I shall submit to the House, it will, by promoting discussion on the state of Ireland be productive of a good effect. * 1149 1150 1151 1152 1153 * * 1154 * * 1155 1156 
 
 Counties in which Disturbances have taken place, 
 1801. Wicklow, Wexford, Tipperary, Limerick. 
 1806. Mayo, Sligo, Leitrim. 
 1811. Tipperary, Waterford, Kilkenny, Limerick. 
 1813. Waterford, Westmeath, Roscommon, King's county. 
 1814. Queen's county and county of Longford, in addition to the last mentioned counties. 
 1816. County of Lowth also in addition. 
 1819. Galway, Roscommon, Kilkenny, Cork, Westmeath. 
 1822 Sixteen counties since 1821. All Connaught sworn. The association of Ribbon-men established in five or six counties. 
 
 Years 
 That the Insurrection Act was in force from 1796 to 1802 6 
 That Martial Law was in Force from 1803 to 1805 2 
 That the Insurrection Act was in force from 1807 to 1810 3 
 That the Insurrection Act was in force from 1814 to 1818 4 
 That the Insurrection Act was in force from 1822 to 1823 1 
 Out of a period of 27 years, these laws were in force for 16 1157 
 
 Period. Years. 
 1. From 1792 to 1802 10 
 2. 1803 1805 2 
 3. 1607 1810 3 
 4. 1811 1818 7 
 5. 1819 1823 4 
 26 1158 1159 1160 1161 1162 1163 1164 1165 modus operandi, 1166 1167 1168 * * 1169 1170 1171 * * * A. B., 1172 1173 inspeximus 1174 1175 1176 1177 * * 1178 cedents, that all the while Wales rid this kingdom like an incubus: that it was unprofitable and oppressive burthen." Your ancestors did, however, at length open their eyes to the ill husbandry of injustice. They, found, that the tyranny of a free people could, of all tyrannies, the least be endured; and that laws made against a whole nation were not the most effectual methods for securing its obedience Accordingly, in the 27th year of Henry the eighth, the course was entirely altered. With a preamble, stating the entire and perfect rights of the crown of England, it gave the Welsh all the rights and privileges of English subjects. A political order was established; the military power gave way to the civil; the marches were turned into counties. But that a nation, should have a right to English liberties, and yet no share at all in the fundamental security of these liberties, the grant of their own property, seemed a thing so incongruous, that eight years after, that is, in the thirty-fifth of the reign, a complete and not ill-proportioned representation by counties and boroughs was bestowed upon Wales, by an act of parliament. From that moment, as by a charm, the tumults subsided; obedience was restored; peace, order, and civilization followed in the train of liberty. When the day-star of the English constitution had arisen in their hearts, all was harmony within and without. —"Simul alba nautis Stella refulsit, Defluit saxis agitatus humor: Concidunt venti: fugiuntque nubes; Et minax (quod sic voluere) ponto Unda recumbit." Parl. Hist. 1179 1180
 Sir G. Cockburn  wished to remind the House that the delay had not taken place in the office; the accounts having been settled in the year 1811. The delay, down to the year 1819, had been occasioned by the law proceedings.
 Sir Henry Parnell  addressed the House as follows: *
 Sir H. Parnell,  after all that had been
 1203
 Sir I. Coffin  said, that the passing of the public accounts required much time, and was attended with great difficulty.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, that he had the honour of a seat at the board of Admiralty, when this transaction was under discussion. Business had been done to the amount of a million and a half; forty-nine packets of letters had been written on the subject, it was not, therefore, singular, that it should be a case of difficulty. The accounts had been often discussed. It appeared to him to be like an amicable suit between the parties. The petitioner had been contractor in India since the year 1794, and he had charged one and a half per cent commission, and twelve per cent interest for money lent to government. These demands could not be complied with; he knew the board to have been most anxious for the adjustment of all the accounts: and he lamented that the settlement had been deferred to the year 1822.
 Sir J. Newport  thought the disturbances which at present agitated Ireland, were wholly owing to the system of government to which Ireland was subjected. That government had, for twenty-three years, gone on passing Insurrection act, after Insurrection act, instead of resorting to any measure of permanent relief. No measure of that kind could be obtained from them, either when the country was disturbed, or when it was not. It seemed as if there really was no period in which the case of Ireland could bear to be probed to the bottom. If the country was tranquil, then the reply was, "why will you disturb the country now?" If there happened, unfortunately, to be disturbances, then the answer was, that "the country was in such a state that nothing would do but an Insurrection act." He begged to repeat to the House, the words which Mr. Pitt had made use of, in April 1800, when speaking of the proposed Union. "We must," said he, "look to this as the only measure we can adopt which can calm the dissentions, allay the animosities, and dissipate the jealousies which have unfortunately existed; as a measure whose object is, to communicate to the sister kingdom the skill, the capital, and the industry, which have raised this country to such a pitch of opulence; to give her a full participation of the commerce and of the constitution of England." * * 1200 * * * 1201
 Mr. Broughman  said, that he held in his hand a petition signed by 2,000 Roman Catholics of Ireland, which complained of the general oppression in which that class of his majesty's subjects to which they belonged were holden, not only by the inequality of the laws as far as regarded them, but also by the unequal administration of the laws as they at present existed. That complaint, though it was stated with no less accuracy than force of language, contained nothing in it that was, in the slightest degree, disrespectful towards the House. As he intended to ground a proceeding upon this petition, it was unnecessary for him to state any thing further regarding its contents, than that the foundation of them was, firstly, the inequality, and, secondly, the unequal administration of the laws, as respected Roman Catholics. The petition was signed by many of the most respectable Catholic inhabitants of Dublin, and would have been signed by as many thousands as it now had hundreds, had not the petitioners thought it neces-
 1204 1205 1206 1207 1208 1209
 Sir C. Long  allowed that there was not at present sufficient encouragement given to' that branch of art, to which the petitioner had devoted himself; but, at the same time, he did not see how such encouragement could be afforded by legislative enactment. He had been requested by the petitioner to present this petition; but as he did not like to raise hopes which he knew must end in disappointment, he had endeavoured to extract from the petitioner the means by which encouragement was to be afforded. Whether the petitioner had been disappointed by meeting with this treatment on his part, he could not tell; but the result had been, that the petition had been ultimately placed in the hands of the learned gentleman opposite. He was certainly
 1211
 Mr. D. Browne  opposed the motion, and felt convinced that the very mention of it in Dublin would raise a sort of rebellion.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that as he had filled one of the offices which the hon. gentleman proposed to abolish, and now filled that upon which it was proposed to
 1233 1234 1235
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that the opinion which he had formed upon this subject before the debate had commenced was fortified beyond all measure, by what he had since heard. Although the testimony was conflicting upon the subject, the conclusion from general principles was so obvious, that he thought it could not be mistaken. Let the House suppose that a few years had passed since this measure of removing the government from Ireland had been adopted. The Secretary of State would, of necessity, be ignorant of all those local peculiarities which, under the present system, were so accurately detailed. He could not conceive any thing more extraordinary than that the House should consent to strike away all those advantages which were derived from the presence of ministers who had served an apprenticeship to the Irish government. But, the motion before the House afforded in itself the best proof of the value of local information: for it was proposed to send a commission to Ireland to collect that local information before the House should decide. It was not ventured even to lay the foundation for that absent form of government which was to be recommended, until such information should be obtained. If this, then, were to go on, commissions must of necessity be appointed as often as it was necessary to procure information; and, instead of collecting it without shock or confusion, the House must send commissions, each with power equal to that of a lord lieutenant, to collect and bring home particulars, which they were certain must be procured during a perturbed state of the public mind. That information was best gathered and laid by for future use during the ordinary current of events; and not by fits and snatches, as often as separate events required separate inquiries. But, the chief objection to the measure was, that its effect would inevitably be, that, if the executive government were removed, the practical power would be thrown into the hands of parties. Two generations of English ministries however short, would not have passed, before the person holding the office of Secretary of State would find himself obliged to
 1238 l.
 Mr. Hutchinson  regretted that he could not concur in the motion of his hon. friend. He was convinced that great mischief would be occasioned if, at this moment, there appeared any disposition on the part of parliament to remove the marquis Wellesley from the government of Ireland; and, if the proposition now before the
 1239
 Mr. S. Rice  contended, that inquiry was clearly called for, and expressed his satisfaction at the promise of the right hon. gentleman, to give every information on these topics in his power.
 The Attorney General  opposed the amendment. The object of the bill before the House was merely to carry into effect what had been proposed by his hon. and learned friend himself; namely, to repeal the act of William, but to leave that of Anne untouched. He could see no reason why privately stealing in a shop, which formed a material parcel of a dwelling-house, should not be considered as great a crime as stealing in any other part of the House.
 The Solicitor General  opposed the amendment, and Mr. F. Buxton and Mr. G. Lamb supported it.
 Mr. Ricardo  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Dawson  contended that the proposition was one of the most impolitic and injurious that could possibly be broached.
 Mr. Brougham , in explanation, stated, that when the purchase of the Elgin marbles was under the consideration of the House, two distinct questions were involved in it; first, the right of lord Elgin to take them; and next, the money-value of them. Regarding the first, he was not much inclined to be squeamish. He certainly thought that lord Elgin had conferred great benefit upon the arts in taking them from Greece; since, if they had been left there, they would have been ground to powder by the Turks for the purposes of building. Regarding the second, he would remind the House, that there had been a great difference of opinion as to the pecuniary value of them, and that the opposition which he had given to the vote for the purchase of them, was derived from the financial distress which at that time pressed upon the country. The value of those marbles to the arts he had never disputed: indeed, he thought that some of them, mutilated as they were, were greatly superior to the Apollo Belvedere and the Venus de Medici, both of which he had had an opportunity of seeing at Paris.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that he had a petition to present, which he had received with the most unfeigned sorrow, and which he had no doubt would excite the same feeling in the breasts of other hon. members when he detailed the particulars of it to the House. The petition was from Mr. B. R. Haydon, historical painter, who, from the great talent which he had exhibited in his profession, was entitled to expect a competency from it, but who was now, unhappily in the King's-bench prison, overwhelmed by ruin, and without hope of redress, owing to his having refused to take portraits, and to his having confined himself exclusively to one branch of the art, historical painting, in which, from the state of the market, it was not possible that more than one or two persons should succeed. The situation of the petitioner was so melancholy, that he believed his only means of amending it would be, by taking the benefit of the insolvent debtor's act. The petitioner stated, that after having devoted nineteen years of his life to the study of the arts, and after having collected various casts, sketches, and drawings, which were the objects of his daily study and nightly veneration, the whole of his collection had been swept away at once, by an execution that had been issued against his property. The petitioner did not apply to the House for relief in his own case, though he was reduced to such a state as to be obliged to begin life again, after undergoing the loss of his former collections; but he did apply to the House to protect other artists from similar disasters, by affording greater encouragement to historical painting. Mr. Haydon founded most of the observations in his petition upon the report of a very able and learned committee of that House, which had sat in 1817 upon the Elgin marbles, and which, after stating the advantages that were likely to be derived from that stupendous collection, submitted "to the attentive consideration of the House, how
 1210 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  began by assuring the hon. member, that the wish of preserving the office which he had then the honour to hold, was not the sole, nor even the principal motive for opposing the motion before the House. The hon. member might conceive that office wholly unnecessary; he might think that the duties annexed to it were such as could be dispensed with altogether, or transferred to some other department without risk or injury, But, whatever his opinions might be, it would not prevent him (Mr. G.) from considering the present motion as derogatory to the character of the country, and fatal to the interests of Ireland. The hon. member had, after all, mainly rested his motion on the saving which would be effected by abolishing the Irish establishment. But, there were countervailing considerations to be urged, which would wholly overbear any argument of that sort. It had often been his lot to contend with the hon. gentleman; but never before had he had the good fortune to contend with him, where the motion of economy had been urged to such an absurd and extravagant length. The hon. member had argued, that, because Ireland was a charge of about three million a-year on England, therefore Ireland ought to be made a separate kingdom, with a monarch of her own. He overlooked entirely the benefits which had resulted to the two countries from their connexion, and for the paltry, trumpery consideration of the annual charge of Ireland on this country, he proposed that there should be an eternal separation between them. He could not argue a proposition
 1227 1228 1229 1230
 Mr. Goulburn  thought it was an inexpedient thing in general, and particularly in the present case, for parliament to enter into pledges in one session, as to what it would do in another. He objected also to this species of parliamentary interference with the management of the parochial establishments. As little could he concur in the proposition of educating Roman Catholic and Protestant children on one and the same system, without making them, sensible, as suggested by the right hon. baronet, of the distinctions between their respective creeds. But, while he was opposed to-the motion, he was friendly to inquiry next session.
 Mr. Abercromby  thought, that as the proposition before the House was, whether an inquiry should be made into the best mode of governing Ireland, and as there was quite enough of suspicion about the present government to justify such an inquiry, the subject deserved, at least, a fair and impartial consideration by parliament. He thought his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) had been unfairly dealt will). He had mentioned the subject of expense, but only as a minor part of the case, and not that point upon which it was mainly to rely. It should not be said, that this question was brought forward upon grounds of economy, and not upon the broad grounds of wisdom and policy. He was willing to admit that, upon abstract principles, Ireland was entitled to a local government; but, the question to be decided was, whether the experience of late years, and the change-of circumstances, had not now rendered the alteration which was proposed expedient. He would admit, too, that it was fit the person intrusted with the government of Ireland should be possessed of local information; but this argument was not conclusive. The advantage of having the minister for Ireland identified with the cabinet of England, and being ready to answer in his place in parliament any question that might arise, was obvious, and would afford a better chance of security to the people of Ireland, by the scrutiny which the subject would then undergo. How the preposition was to be carried into execution, would be a matter of detail which must be afterwards considered. He had hoped to have heard from the right hon. gentleman, who, in his double capacity of minister for England and for Ireland, was well qualified to afford information upon this topic, some better reasons than these which he had advanced against the resolution; but, with the exception of this single objection respecting the administration of justice in criminal cases, his doubts had been confirmed, and even that might, he thought, be
 1236
 Mr. Croker  was not without hopes that this petition might do good, seeing that it related to a case of distress which touched the heart, at the same time that it affected the mind. He was not, however, clear upon the principle, that historical painting ought to he forced upon the public. Among painters, historical painting was considered that kind of painting which was least historical. True historical painting was portrait painting; and, those who had seen the splendid collection of portraits in the gallery of the British Institution would be convinced that those portraits were really historical pictures. If there were any artist so attached to historical painting, as to say that he would not condescend to paint portraits, that artist ought to be reminded, that
 1212
 Mr. J. Williams  was of opinion, that the intention of the act of 1821 would be defeated, unless his learned friend's amendment were carried.
 Mr. Hume  shortly replied. He said, that in submitting this proposition to the House he had no idea of reflecting on the government of the marquis Wellesley: and if gentlemen pleased, he was, willing to add to his motion, that it was no; meant in any degree to refer to that noble person. The chief Secretary for Ireland and the right hon. Secretary for the home
 1241 l.
 Mr. Hume  rose to submit to the House, the motion of which he had given so long a notice, namely, to consider the manner in which Ireland was at present governed, and whether a change might not be made with great advantage. His object was, to abolish the office of lord-lieutenant in that country; but, as an impression existed in some quarters that his motion was made with hostile feelings to the marquis Wellesley, he begged to be clearly understood that he did not intend in the smallest degree to reflect on the, conduct of that noble lord. He (Mr. H.) had long had a favourable opinion of the noble marquis, and should regret if any thing that now fell from him could in the smallest degree have the appearance of censure, although he must admit, that he had been much disappointed in the results of the marquis's administration, yet he was well aware that the situation in which the lord lieutenant was placed, was an arduous and difficult one, and it would be unfair to draw too harsh conclusions against him whilst unacquainted with alt the difficulties he had to contend with There were obstacles which had been raised by the misrule of ages; and it was not to be expected that he could at once, overcome them, particularly with a government in England so constituted that it was difficult to ascertain what measures they would support, or what they would oppose. The king had, in the appointment of the present lord lieutenant, been actuated, it was understood, by the best intentions; desirous, by the example he had himself set whilst in Ireland, to put an end to that party spirit which had so long disturbed the peace of that country; to terminate that system of exclusion both civil and religious which unfortunately was the chief source of those evils under which Ireland suffered: to place Protestants and Catholics on the same footing in the administration of the laws, and in the participation of all the
 1213 1214 l. l. 1215 1216 1217
 Mr. R. Martin , as he had a large-share in bringing about the Union, Wished to observe, that at that time it was positively understood, that a permanent lord lieutenant should be always residing in Ireland. Adverting to the thin attendance of members, he expressed his surprise, that after the pompous advertisement which the hon. member for Aberdeen had posted up of his intention to make the present motion he should have so poor a benefit. He would rather vote at once to supersede the lord lieutenant than vote for the commission. It appeared to him to be very little short of a revolutionary proposition.
 Mr. Peel  defended the bill, and contended, that the measures before the House formed the most extensive experiment of mitigation of punishment that had ever been made in this country.
 Sir George Hill  said, that officially connected with Ireland as he had the honour to be, it might be expected that he should express an opinion on the present important proposition; the House would therefore, perhaps, indulge him with their attention for a very few minutes. He did not intend to enter into any abstract reasoning on the necessity of having a lord lieutenant of Ireland, nor to attempt to prove that under all circumstances and at all times, that country should have a lord lieutenancy established there: but he wished to express his conviction that situated as that country was at present, an
 1240
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he had recommended to the House, some sessions ago, to adopt the plan now proposed by the hon. member for Aberdeen, and all he had seen and heard since, served to confirm him in the opinion he had then expressed of the expediency of the measure. He considered it to be utterly impossible to administer the English, constitution by a deputy executive by a deputy executive government. The moment the king ceased to be at the head of government, the constitution of that government ceased to be the English constitution. A viceroy must be more or less a partisan, let his disposition be ever so strong to avoid lending his countenance to one party or to another. He never can, in Ireland, avoid having one or other of the great parties into which the country is divided, opposed to him; and there was no prospect of the existing animosities subsiding
 1231 1232
 Sir J. Newport  said, he thought nothing could be more injurious to the interests of Ireland, or more irritating to the feelings of the people, than the proposal before the House. For his part, if he were in the situation of the lord lieutenant, and a committee were appointed to inquire into the necessity of the existence of his office, he should not feel warranted in holding it one hour longer. But he spoke only from his feelings; and different people had different feelings. When gentlemen talked of the danger to which Ireland was exposed, and reasoned from that in favour of the resolution, he would refer them to a period of danger during a very wise administration—that of queen Elizabeth; and remind them how different a policy was then adopted. When revolt and rebellion disturbed Ireland, that queen did not remove the lord deputy, but sent Lords President to the disturbed provinces, to aid in restoring them to tranquillity; she caused the seat of government to approximate as nearly as possible to the disorders, and where mischief was, thither she sent the remedy. He had spent a long life, and during a large portion of that life had assisted in the discussions of parliament; in the course of nature, he should probably soon take his departure, but he was glad to have that opportunity of stating his firm conviction, the result of his experience, that there could be no measure by which the feelings of the people of Ireland would be more likely to be exasperated than by the removal of the seat of government. They would look upon it as the last scene of their degradation. They would think that the expectations which had been held out to them at the Union were all destroyed. The evils of non-residence would be increased; the nobility, many of whom he could name if it
 1237
 Sir J. Newport  rose to submit the motion, of which he had given notice, relative to the accounts of diocesan and parish schools in Ireland, and the reports of the commissioners of education there, with the view of more detailed inquiry at the commencement of the ensuing session, into the means of imparting most efficaciously to the whole body of the: people, without religious distinction, its essential benefits, and rendering the funds available, which were destined for that great national object. His object, he observed, was to pledge parliament that they would, at an early period next year, enter into a full investigation of this interesting question, in order that they might deliberately consider what had been done for the general education of the people of Ireland. Parliament ought to exercise its inquisitorial power, and to see that funds which were left for the education of the people, without regard to difference of religion were applied, through the proper channels, to that most important purpose. He had, at the commencement of the session, moved for various papers, which threw great light on this subject. However gentlemen knight differ on other points, he believed they all agreed on this—that general education was the most certain mode by which the situation of Ireland could be ameli-
 1242 1243 l. 1244
 Sir J. Newport  said, he willingly withdrew his resolution; his object, which was to ascertain the disposition of the right hon. gentleman upon the subject, being completely obtained.
 Mr. Wynn  asked, whether it was right that a petition should be laid on the table, which charged a member of the House with an offence for which he was indictable in a court of law. If such a petition were suffered to lie on the table, the House must, for its own credit, as well as for that of the hon. member accused, enter into an investigation of the charges it contained. As the ordinary tribunals of the country were competent to entertain the accusations of the petitioner, he thought that there was no occasion for the House to take them up. He therefore suggested to his hon. and learned friend to withdraw the petition.
 Mr. Brovgham  said, that after the distinct, unequivocal, and unreserved manner, in which the charge had been denied by the hon. member opposite, he was bound by every principle of justice and humanity to believe that the allegations in the petition could not be sustained, and he could have no hesitation in withdrawing the petition, as it would be open to the petitioner, if lie still persisted in the charge, to renew his petition in the next session. In the mean time, an opportunity would be afforded the petitioner of considering the serious responsibility he incurred, if he brought a false charge against a member of that House, and the punishment which would, in that case, await him for a breach of the privileges of parliament.
 Colonel Barry  rose to oppose the motion, and said, if no better arguments could be urged in its favour, than those to be drawn from the instances mentioned by the hon. baronet, the House would have little hesitation in deciding upon it. The Catholic Association, from which this petition originated, was one which ought not to exist in any well-constituted state. It was suffered to sit in the imme-
 1295 1296 1297 1298
 Mr. Hutchinson  agreed perfectly with the right hon. gentleman in his concluding sentiment, namely, that things could not
 1299 1300 1301
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  said, that though he had strong feelings in favour of the Catholics, yet he could not lend himself to the calumnies stated in the petition—calumnies against the magistracy and against the people. He had never heard it imputed to the judges, to the grand juries, or the petit juries, that they acted partially in the administration of justice. He regretted that such statements as appeared in the petition should ever have been made. He did not mean to speak of the petitioners with disrespect they were entitled to great latitude of language in pressing their complaints, because they had suffered great disappointment in the destruction of their first hopes. But still he considered the language of the present petition as calculated to impede the success of their great cause. The petition was a libel on the judges of the land, on the magistracy and on the gentry of Ireland.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he would confine himself strictly, in what he had to say to the consideration of the matter immediately before the House. When he stated to the House, that out of eighty four days which had been this session devoted to the despatch of public business, no less than forty-nine had been appropriated to the discussion of Irish subjects, it would easily be imagined how disposed he felt to confine himself within the limits he proposed. The question, then, was shortly this—whether the House should have recourse to the very unusual proceeding of referring this petition to a committee, the grand committee for courts of justice—a proceeding that had not been resorted to by parliament for the space of 120 years past? And then, it was adopted upon express allegations of corruption in one of the judges. Now, he wished to to know whether, in the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, or in the petition itself, any ground for such a proceeding as this had been laid? He had heard it called the petition of the Roman Catholics; but, opposed as he had been to that large and important body of his majesty's subjects, on the question of Emancipation as it was called, he rose to rescue them from the charge of having prepared or transmitted so inflammatory a petition: or of having been privy to, or in any way connected with it, couched as it was in such unbecoming, indeed he had almost said such ferocious, language. It could never be imagined that, the Roman Catholics of Ireland could be parties to representations of this kind—"that the corporation of
 1307 1308 1309 1310 1311
 Mr. Hutchinson , in explanation, repeated, that if the petitioners asserted, that justice was not fairly administered to them by the judges of the land because they were Catholics, they stated what was false; that if they stated that grand and petty juries in the South and West of Ireland did not administer justice fairly to them because they were Catholics, they stated what was false; for the greater part of the juries of that part of the country were themselves Catholics. This was what he had said, and he was surprised at the very gross misrepresentation of his sentiments which had been given by the hon. and learned gentleman.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that his hon. friend had used very strong language. He was sure his hon. friend did not mean to quarrel with him; but if he did, he could assure him that he would not quarrel with his hon. friend. He objected to the terms used by his hon. friend, principally because they happened to have no foundation.
 Mr. Brougham  rose to reply, amid loud cries of "question." Silence being restored, he said, that unless he troubled the House with a few words by way of reply to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he should place himself and the question committed to his care in a very unfair posture. It would be observed, that when he addressed the House in the early part of the evening, it was to a different audience from that which the right hon. gentleman had addressed, which made a reply the more necessary. For instance, would not any one imagine, from the manner in which the right hon. gentleman had laboured the point, that he (Mr. B.) had made statements from the pamphlet of Mr. Scully But he had made no allusion to it whatever, and had even carefully avoided taking any statement from it, though fully aware of the value and importance of them. He had, however, to give his personal thanks to the hon. member for Galway (Mr. R. Martin), for the exceedingly jocose notice he had been pleased to take of his address. He had never heard a more successful piece of mimickry, if he might be allowed to call it so, "on these or any other boards;" and he could not help congratulating the right hon. secretary, who was generally called the manager of that House, that so eminent a performer had closed his theatrical career this season with so excellent a performance [a laugh]. In answering his statements respecting lord Manners, the right hon. secretary had gone merely against his (Mr. B.'s) credit as a stater of facts. He bad stated the number of decrees reversed to be in proportion to the whole number of appeals as 50 to 100. The right hon. secretary had stated them as 11 to 22, which was exactly the same proportion, being one half of the whole number brought under the review of the superior tribunal. If be seriously inferred from this that, on an application to the court
 1312 1313 1314 1315 1316 1317
 Mr. Brougham , having moved, that the petition which he yesterday presented from the Roman Catholics of Ireland, complaining of the Inequality in the Administration of the Law, be entered as read, said, that he had never risen to address the House under feelings of greater anxiety. When he recollected the vast talent, on both sides of the House, which had been employed at various periods on topics connected with the subject of the petition, and the multitude of persons in Ireland earnestly looking at the result of this discussion—when he considered even the strength of the case committed to his charge; and, more than all the present state of the sister kingdom, it might well be supposed that he felt somewhat overawed at the task he had undertaken. The petitioners them selves had rendered the duty incalculably more difficult for, whereas, when the Catholic question was discussed, the affairs
 1256 desideratum 1257 1258 prima facie 1259 1260 1261 1262 1263 1264 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269 1270 l. 1271 1272 1273 1274 Cedant urma togœ 1275 1276 1277 1278 1279
 Mr. Brougham  presented a petition, which had been sent to him from Ireland by an individual of the name of George Rowan, of whom he had no knowledge, nor of the facts which he stated in his petition. He had a painful duty to perform in presenting this petition, inasmuch as it reflected upon the conduct and character of a member of the House. He should therefore do nothing more than move, that this petition be brought up. 1254 l.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that on a subject so deeply involving the best interests of Ireland, the House could not be surprised at his feeling some anxiety to address them. The learned gentleman had stated, that in bringing forward this motion, he had discharged his duty, and relieved his conscience. He (Mr. G.) stood there to discharge his; to state the grounds upon which he considered it incumbent upon the House to resist the motion, and refuse acceding to the prayer of the petition. He was conscious that he laboured under great difficulties in replying to the hon. and learned gentleman. In the first place, he had not the same claim to the attention of the House. In the next, the question was brought forward at a period of the session, when those individuals who were most competent to give information, because most conversant with the administration of justice in Ireland (he meant the Irish members), were, for the most part, necessarily absent; and he was therefore deprived, by their absence, of the valuable testimony which he was confident they would, if present, have afforded to the purity of that administration. Under these circumstances, he had to throw himself upon the indulgence of the House, while he endeavoured to reply to the hon. and learned gentleman; to oppose to his eloquent statement, facts and the result of experience. 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288 1289 1290 1291 1292 1293
 Mr. Goulburn. —He is not a magistrate for any county in Ireland [Hear!].
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the fact was immaterial; but why not answer the case of major Sirr, against whom, in 1802, a verdict had been found for an assault and wrongful imprisonment? The case of sir H. Lees was a mere matter of opinion, whether he ought or ought not to be a magistrate; but not so, as to major Sirr; his utter disqualification was established, and yet, for years, he had been permitted to retain a situation of great influence and responsibility.—With respect to the magistracy generally, one observation had been made by the right hon. secretary, which had struck him forcibly: it was his statement, when accounting for the recent removals from the list of the magistracy, that many were found to make a private profit of the administration of justice. It was singular, that on a late occasion, when an hon. friend (Mr. S. Rice) had said that there were magistrates in Ireland who sold justice, it was indignantly denied by gentlemen opposite, amid cheers as loud as he had heard that night; and yet now came the admission, that the fact then denied was indisputably correct. With respect to any reflections which had been cast upon the Irish magistracy, he would acknowledge, that he thought the Government, for what they had effected towards their reformation, entitled to the greatest credit. Since the year 1807, when he had first the honour of a seat in that House, not a session had occurred in which some hon. member had not submitted a motion to parliament, touching the necessity that existed for such a reform. The application, however, had been invariably rejected until 1822, when the attempt had been at last made: but clear it was, that mean-while, the evil for which the remedy had been so long denied, had been suffered to remain unalleviated. Then, as to the case of the sub-sheriffs, what had been said by the hon. member for Galway (Mr. Daly) on that subject, fully confirmed the statement first made by the other hon. gentleman. The right hon. colonel had said, that if a particular case of grievance was made out, he would be willing that a remedy should be expended to it. But this was not the proper way in which to meet such a peti-
 1304 1305
 Mr. Abercromby  remarked, that the hon. gentlemen opposite had, in the course of this debate, severely arraigned the conduct of the Catholics; but, did they recollect the adversaries who had driven these Catholics to complain? Did they remember the recent meeting of avowed Orange delegates in the county court-house of Armagh, with the authority of the sheriff of Tyrone, and sanctioned by the presence of the sheriff of Armagh? Did they recollect the general proclamation put forth by that body on behalf of the Orange lodges of Ireland? This he put forth, not as an answer to the speeches of hon. gentlemen opposite, but as a statement of the case. Here were two great parties whose passions convinced the land—the Orangemen on one side, and the Catholic delegates on the other. The real question was, whether, in such a state of things, it was in human nature that justice could be calmly and equally administered. It was no imputation upon the people of Ireland to say, that the Government were bound to look with a close and vigilant eye to the administration of justice in a country exhibiting these frightful symptoms of civil dissentions. It was said, that the petition contained no facts. He lamented that the parties had been so ill advised as to omit facts, but, were there none in the statement of his learned friend, only one of which had been con-
 1303
 Colonel Crosbie  addressed the House in a low tone of voice. He said, it was true that Mr. Twiss, who was his son-in-law, had obtained, through his interest, the appointment of collector of the Excise, but that it was false that he had received for it any sum of money whatever. He likewise denied, in the most positive and unqualified manner, that he had ever received a farthing for the situation to which he had got his nephew appointed. He could only say, that the charges which the petitioner had brought against him were false and unfounded, and that he would adopt every means in his power to compel him to make redress for bringing them so publicly forward.
 Mr. Daly  could not assent to the construction of this petition as limited to the corporation of Dublin. On the contrary he saw that it cast a general imputation upon the judges, the magistracy, the grand and petty juries, throughout Ireland. A charge so broad was an attack upon the Protestants of the country, totally unfounded in every respect. Much as he contended for the justice and policy of the Catholic claims, yet he could not sacrifice to mean popularity his sense of the gross injustice of the charge conveyed in this petition. Not; a single fact was stated in this petition, and every insinuation it conveyed was unfounded. He could say, as' the representative of a large catholic county, that he never sat upon a jury-box finding a Catholic in the jury-box; and he had never, in a single instance, heard from any member of that religion a complaint of a mal-administration of justice; he had never heard from one of them even a whisper of corruption. He owed this statement to the character of his protestant fellow-countrymen; and he owed also to the Catholics to deny their general participation in the statements of this petition. Not a single Catholic nobleman, honourable member of a noble family, or baronet, had signed it. There was, according to his recollection of them, no signature of any of the great Catholic landed proprietors; nor even of any of the great Catholic landed proprietors; nor even of any of the great Catholic merchants. Such a petition did not speak the sense of the Catholics of Ireland, nor did it cer-
 1302
 Mr. Croker  said, that, to a certain degree, he could corroborate the statement of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down Mr. Twiss, with whom he had become acquainted whilst going the circuit in Ireland, had recently called upon him, and had applied for his good offices in recovering the situation from which he had been removed. He had told Mr. Twise that he would make the requisite inquiries in Ireland, and, if the answer was satisfactory, would employ what interest he had in his behalf. He had made those inquiries. The result of them had been satisfactory; and the consequence was that Mr. Twiss re-appointed to his situation. Mr. Twiss brought him no recommendation from colonel Crosbie no nor indeed, from any other person, He thought it right to add, that he had the slightest communication with colonel Crosbie on this subject.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, he was very sure, that if the hon. and learned gentleman had had an opportunity of previously communicating with these petitioners, or if they had sent him a brief, or a case only, without a brief, his advice to them would have been, not to transmit to parliament a petition couched in such inflammatory language. He would have said, in a petition to parliament, you should avoid all flourish, all metaphor, all reasoning [a laugh.]. By reasoning, he meant all argument, for a petition should
 1306
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he rose to state some facts relating to sheriffs in Ireland which had come within his own knowledge. But, before he alluded to that, he wished to say, that he thought his hon. and learned friend had been misrepresented by the right hon. gentleman. The evidence upon which his hon. and learned friend relied, was not that of an isolated individual before a committee, but had been confirmed by others. He (sir H. P.) had been upon the committee on the Usury laws, and it was there stated by a very respectable Irish attorney, and a secretary of a principal Insurance office, that the difficulty of having the process of the law carried into execution in Ireland, was the principal reason why English capital was not carried over to that country. The people of this country has no objection to the Irish law courts, but they had many objections to the mode in which the law was executed. Lord Redesdale, whose authority on this subject was invaluable, had said, that in Ireland lord Coke's maxim, "that the execution was the ending of the suit," was reversed; for in that country it seemed
 1294
 Mr. Brougham  said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that he had last night presented a petition from a Mr. George Rowan, which contained a serious charge against an hon. member of that House. He had stated upon that occasion, that he had no knowledge either of the party who signed the petition, or of the charges which that petition contained. He had, therefore, upon the suggestion of the president of the Board of Control, after hearing the positive denial given to the accusation by the party whom it implicated, consented to withdraw the petition. But he was now bound to stat, that the petitioner having referred him for information to an hon. member of the House, he had made the required reference, and the result of it had been, to make; that charges in question assume a much graver interest than he had originally attached to them. He felt that he should as a public servant, desert his duty
 1319
 Mr. Bennet  confirmed the statement of the right hon. gentleman opposite, as to the very slight degree of reliance due to the accounts of persons who had been insane; but he thought, notwithstanding, that further regulations in private, madhouses were necessary. Upon the point however, altogether, he confessed he entertained little hope; for, so long as certain persons in another place systematically opposed every, thing tending to a reform in the law, there could he little expectation of any advantageous change, until Providence should: be pleased to remove them from their situations. With respect to the petition, he had seen Mr. Mitford, and thought that he certainly appeared in his senses at present; he made some assertions which he (Mr. B.) knew to be untrue. He trusted that Mr. Warburton would prosecute the publisher of Mr. Mitford's book.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that this subject was well worthy the attention of parliament. It had formerly been much considered; and three bills had, at different periods, been sent up from that House to the Lords, relative to the inspection of houses of this description, which, he regretted to say, had not been passed. He should be extremely sorry if any proposition were brought forward, similar to that spoken of by the hon. member for Westminster; because he believed that, though abuses might exist in some of these establishments, they were, on the whole, well conducted. There was little chance of patients being restored to their senses unless a certain course of treatment were adopted; and with that view, it was better that they should be taken care of in houses exclusively appropriated to the reception of persons labouring under this malady, than that they should be placed in private lodgings, and intrusted to the keeping of individuals who were not con versant with the disease. Persons ignorant of the treatment which should be extended to insane patients, frequently gave them medicines and bled them, for the mere purpose of reducing their strength.
 Lord Binning  opposed the motion. The
 1335
 Mr. K. Douglas  hoped the House would not be induced, by what had fallen from the noble lord, to reject the present bill. Some of the noble lord's objections, however, were not unworthy of attention. As to the measure itself, it was of great importance to the people of Scotland. The districts, under the jurisdiction of the commissaries, were so extensive, that the revenue was, in consequence, defrauded to a large amount, and the, administration of justice generally obstructed. The persons, too, who held the situation of commissaries were not bred to the law, but were mostly country gentlemen; whereas, the sheriffs appointed to discharge their duty by the present bill, possessed legal knowledge, and were thus qualified for the office. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to mention the other evils which the measure was intended to remedy, and concluded by giving it his support.
 Mr. Kennedy  objected to several clauses of the bill. One of these transferred the duties of the commissaries to the sheriffs, who were enabled to depute their power to their substitutes, who again were to do the duty without granting them any additional remuneration. He could not allow that opportunity to pass, without observing that sheriff substitutes of Scotland were a very respectable body of men, but very ill paid; and he hoped that their situation would soon be considered in the proper quarter, and that a provision would be made for them, more suitable to their station and the various important duties which they had to perform.
 The Lord Advocate  concurred in what had been said by the hon. member, with respect to the respectability of the sheriff substitutes, and was anxious that a suitable addition should be made to their incomes; but the hon. gentleman must be aware that it rested with the treasury to give that compensation.
 Mr. Bankes  regretted the necessity he was under of opposing this bill, because he felt that its object was, to confer political power, and not a mere qualification for office. He could not see the distinction between the franchise of electing and that of being elected. If parliament chose to extend to the Catholics the one, they ought also to grant them the other, and at once concede the privilege of representation. The hon. gentleman then cited the authorities of dean Swift and Burke, to prove that it was absurd to suppose, that one political concession could be made by such a government as ours to Roman Catholics, without all other concessions in church and state following as matters of course. He understood it to be a favourite proposition with some hon. gentlemen, that the numbers of those professing, and not the truth of the doctrine, ought to determine what the religion of a state should be. According to that proposition, therefore, the religion of the state in Ireland ought to be Roman Ca-
 1342
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  thought the speech of the hon. member for Corfe Castle had little relevancy to the bill before the House. His argument went to the danger of granting to the Catholics an increase of political power. Now, the number of Catholics which by this bill would be admitted to vote was so very inconsiderable, that the influence of Catholics over elections could hardly perceptibly increased by its passing Mr. G. said that he had once been in a borough where one. Catholic had been prevented from voting, but where the in-
 1343
 Mr. W. Peel  supported the bill, but protested that he would not go one iota beyond its provisions, in the way of concession.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, he well knew that the hon. member for Corfe Castle was generally opposed to all concession, under any circumstances, to Roman Catholics. Now, if he (Mr. S.) were called upon to point out any one body of men, whose political and moral conduct had been for ages most irreproachable, he should turn to the English Roman Catholics. He was extremely averse to inflicting any penalty-upon men for their religious opinions: and he could easily instance the folly of such a policy. He had the pleasure of knowing a great many individuals among the society of Friends, called Quakers: a body of men more excellent, more upright, and of greater correctness in all their dealings, could not be named. This character was generally admitted to them; and yet he wondered how they had existed so long in this country, seeing
 1344
 Mr. Secretary Peel , although opposed to the general measure of Catholic Emancipation, was ready to support the bill before the House. Nothing which had fallen from the hon. member for Corfe Castle had convinced him, that there was any danger in the measure; or that he should compromise, by voting for it, any principle which he had heretofore professed. He could not see by what process, upon granting the elective franchise to the Catholics, he was at all bound to grant them the further right of sitting in parliament. In fact, the two. privileges, as it seemed to him, had no connexion at all with each other. The hon. Members for Corfe Castle said—" This measure gives us in England a class of men who may make members of parliament, but who cannot become members of parliament themselves." Why, what was there new in this From the different rights to attaching to different kind of property, there
 1345 vice versâ, veto
 General Gascoyne  entertained the highest opinion, personally, of the English Catholics; but looked upon the measure before the House as part only of a new system. He could not help regretting the support given to it by the right hon. Secretary, and thought that the opponents of Catholic Emancipation generally would differ from him decidedly in opinion.
 Dr. Lushington  supported the bill, and warmly expressed his feelings in favour of the Catholic generally.
 Lord Binning  was happy to join in an act of rather tardy justice. He wished that the Catholics of Scotland had been included in the measure. As the exclu-
 1346
 Mr. Gooch  said, he knew many Catholics who were loyal and respectable men; but he must oppose the removal of the restrictions placed on them.
 Mr. Smyth  said, that he had come down to the House, intending to vote against the bill, but had been converted by the speech of the right hon. Secretary, and should support it.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that the suggestion of the noble lord (Binning) sufficiently proved that the concessions to the Catholics were not to stop at the present measure. He heartily wished that the right hon. Secretary might not live to regret his assent to it.
 Mr. W. Smith  saw no possible danger to be apprehended from the bill; and hoped to see the time when its own feeling of justice would carry the House to ulterior measures.
 Mr. Butterworth  declared, that he could not consent to the measure then before the House. If parliament granted the boon now called for, it would be the first step towards making still greater concessions to the Catholics. They would not rest satisfied here, but would demand still greater privileges. To prove the truth of his assertion, he need only refer to the fact, that when the elective franchise was extended to the Catholics of Ireland, they soon began to claim more extensive privileges. He could not agree, that those rights contemplated by the bill should be granted to them, because he considered the principles of the Catholics not to have undergone any change. The fears which were formerly entertained of the Catholics were as well founded now as they ever were. The same intolerant spirit still prevailed amongst that sect. So much were the intrigues of particular orders among them dreaded, that the Jesuits had been suppressed in every part of Europe. In the late settlement of the kingdom of the Netherlands, the monarch wished to extend the privileges of the Protestants; but the Catholic bishops
 1347
 Mr. Hume  rose to protest, in the strongest manner, against the species of argument made use of by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. Such observations were unfit for any man to make; but as the hon. gentleman was himself a sectarian, and enjoyed all the benefits of toleration, he was doubly criminal in harbouring sentiments so intolerant. The hon. gentleman had expressed his dread of the Jesuits; but he would tell the House, that there was a class of Protestant Jesuits who were much more to be feared. The church establishment had much greater reason to apprehend danger from the sect to which the hon. gentleman belonged than from the Catholics. There was not a point that could be favourable to their interest, or by which they thought they could undermine the established church (notwithstanding all their declarations of devotion to it), that they did not, most assiduously, endeavour to gain. He looked upon the Methodists to be the Jesuits, above all others, from whom the church of England had most to apprehend. It was quite clear to him, from the observations made by the hon. gentleman, that it was impossible that he could have a particle of tolerant spirit in his breast. The whole of his speech breathed nothing but persecution. He again asserted, that the government ought to look after the Metholists, instead of the Catholics. For the last fifty years they had shown themselves most anxious in making proselytes, and most assiduous in their hostility to religious liberty; and he must say, that he believed no Roman Catholic had ever expressed Such intolerant opinions as the hon. gentleman had uttered that night.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, there was no necessity for him to defend himself against the attack of the hon. member. The sect to which he belonged was highly complimented by the censure of a gentleman who had defended the principles of Carlile in that House.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the hon. member attended to facts, it would be much better. He had never defended Mr. Curlile's principles. The statement was not true [Hear].
 Mr. Hume. —If the hon. gentleman stands up and asserts that which is not true, I have a right to contradict him. I declare that the hon. member has made an assertion with regard to my conduct which is not true.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he had himself communicated with one or two persons, who had been confined in private mad-houses; and, from all he had heard, he thought the subject worthy the attention of parliament. The system of private madhouses was peculiarly calculated to open the door to most iniquitous offences, and unfortunately, the most difficult of proof. In his opinion the true course would be to put them down altogether; or to increase the public establishments at least to such a degree as should tend to diminish their number. The trade was a highly lucrative one. Individuals kept, in many cases, several establishments. Mr. Warburton was the proprietor of two or three different houses.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the present bill could not passion such argument as that of the learned gentleman's, which had nothing to do with the measure, but was in fact an  argumentum ad hominem,
 The Lord Advocate , in moving that the order of the day be read for the third reading of this bill, took the opportunity of entering into an explanation of the object and provisions of the bill. He observed, that it was by no means intended to abolish by the bill the forty-three Commissary Courts, but to transfer the business of them to the sheriffs depute. This would be generally advantageous; as it would have the effect of allowing the cases of litigants to be tried nearer home.
 Lord A. Hamilton  complained of the manner in which the learned lord had conducted business in the present session, which was such, that bills arrived at their third reading, without any chance of an opportunity to any hon. member to deliver his sentiments upon them. The necessity under which the learned lord had just felt himself, of explaining the object of the present bill, on moving the order of the day for its third reading, was a striking illustration of the fact. With regard to the present bill, the learned
 1338 l. 1339 sederunt, sederunt 1340
 Mr. Canning  could not allow that his right hon. friend was bound to approve of this bill, because he disapproved of judicial selection; especially as he had opposed the second reading of it, and the committee upon it. For his own part, he disliked the present mode of selection by the judges; not because any thing improper had been, or could be alleged against it practically, but because he considered that mode unsightly, and unseemly in theory. But he by no means wished on that account to be considered an advocate for the ballot, to which he felt strong objections. He did not consider himself sufficiently acquainted with the details of the bill, to warrant him, considering the important measure it comprised, in giving his support to it. He thought the subject could not be safely determined upon until next session, when, if he found the objections removed, he would give his concurrence to some modification of the system which now existed.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that private madhouses were establishments almost necessarily open to abuse; and where abuses did exist, it was most important that they be hunted to detection. At the same time justice was due to a number of highly respectable medical men, who were proprietors of houses of this description, and among others, to Mr. Warburton, with whom he was professionally acquainted. In the course of his legal practice, he had frequently seen Mr. Warburton examined in courts of justice; and his character stood equally high, both for medical skill and for humanity. Now it appeared that Mr. Mitford had himself been confined in a mad-house as a patient; and it should be recollected that a man might sufficiently recover from an attack of insanity to he discharged from confinement and yet not be in a state to appreciate, dispassionately, the very treatment which perhaps had been conducive to his cure. It frequently happened, that actions were brought against the keepers of lunatic asylums by people who had recovered under their care. One word as to Mr. Mitford. He had spoken of himself as the author of a book on the subject of mad-houses; and certainly he was the author of as scandalous a publication as ever bad issued from the press. The work in question was filled with the most slanderous anecdotes, and with details too disgusting to be repeated; and the names of persons of high respectability, and even of young ladies of rank, who had been visited with that dreadful malady, the privation of reason, were treated in a manner deserving the severest reprehension.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the noble lord, in opposing this bill, had not stated his real objection, which could only be guessed at. The noble lord was adverse to the appointment of juries by ballot, because it would be a matter of blind chance. Now, it was for that very reason that he (Mr. A.) approved of it. To him it appeared to be, as it would depend entirely on chance, the fairest mode that could be proposed for nominating a jury. He could not argue this point, since the noble lord had advanced no reason for his opposition. All he said was, "I don't like this proposition, and I won't agree to it." The noble lord admitted that a change was necessary. If that were the case, then the question was, how it could be effected. The present measure had been considered in the committee as the best that could be devised; and he should like to know why the noble lord had not urged his objections on that committee. No objection
 1336
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from Mr. John Mitford, praying for an inquiry into the state of Private Mad-houses. The petitioner stated, that he had himself been confined in one of these institutions, and that he had lately published a book describing the abuses which existed in them. To obtain materials for this book he had visited a variety of private lunatic asylums: but at those of Mr. Warburton, he had been refused the means of information which he wanted.
 Mr. Peel  saw no ground in the present case for establishing an inquiry. To suppress private mad-houses, would be to create an evil greater than any which such a course could remove. Confinement in a public institution, under any circumstances, would always appear to many a very severe infliction; and the attempt to abolish private mad-houses would inevitably lead to the confinement of lunatics in private houses—an arrangement under which every facility to abuse would 'be increased. Upon the petition before the House, he would Only say thus much—that a variety of statements had been presented to him, in his time, by persons, sane to all appearance, complaining of abuses practised in mad-houses; he had examined into these statements over and over again, and he had, in almost
 1334
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that by the admission of almost every one in the House who had spoken, the principle of judicial selection had been condemned. If any novelty were to be introduced, it must be founded either upon selection or upon a fortuitous mode of appointment; The right hon. gentleman himself did not approve of selection by the judges; and his hon. and learned friend near him had adopted that which he considered the most unexceptionable mode, that of ballot. The objections of the right hon. gentleman, as they went merely to possible difficulties, were of a nature so general that no measure could be invented to which such objections might not be opposed. Having, however, admitted the impropriety of judicial selection, and suffered the opportunities escape him of discussing the bill on the second reading, or of improving it in the committee, the right hon. gentleman, in proposing to
 1337
 Sir C. Long  thought the hon. member's amendment quite unnecessary. The trustees of the British Museum would never have thought of building with the public money, without taking the opinion of the Treasury. The right hon. gentleman proceeded td defend the building and arrangements of the British Museum, and declared that the entertainment which the House had derived from the address of the hon. member for Bodmin on a former evening, they owed to the fertility of his invention, rather than to the accuracy of his statements. Room was certainly wanted; for sir George Beaumont had offered his collection to the Museum, and it had been declined, for want of a place to put it in. The gallery of which the hon. gentleman had so bitterly complained, had
 1359
 Mr. A. Ellis  very much objected to sending the late king's library to the Museum, because he thought that two great libraries were not more than the metropolis required. He defended the committee of the Museum, from the reflections cast upon them by the secretary of the Admiralty, whose amendment he should oppose. He praised the noble and patriotic gift of sir G. Beaumont. The collection of Mr. Angerstein would be sold in the course of next year, and if not looked after, would very probably go out of the country. His intention was to move for a grant in the next session, to be applied, under commissioners, to the purchase of this and other collections, for the formation of a national gallery.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  justified the committee of the British Museum. He happened to be one of them, and was denied that credit for taste by his hon. friend, as a member of the committee which had been abundantly bestowed upon him as a lord of the Treasury. He did not conceive that it was a matter of course, that, because the lords of the Treasury were responsible for the raising and laying out of money, they were the most capable persons in matters of mere taste. For his
 1360 "Lie heavy on him, earth, for he "Laid many a heavy load on thee."
 Mr. Baring  supported the amendment. He considered the mixture of antiquity, books, natural history, and marbles in the Museum, to be a most jumbling and incongruous arrangement. The works of art should be in a gallery by themselves. There were collections now purchasable, which could never again be come at by the public. Vast quantities of valuable works had been thrown into the hands of individuals by the French Revolution, which must in the nature of things return again to the great cabinets and collections. And really, for a country of such inordinate wealth and power as this to be without a gallery of art, was a national reproach. He highly approved of the spirit with which this subject was now taken up, and of most of the projected arrangements; especially that of purchasing the rich collection of the late Mr. Angerstein. 1361
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the House, being the guardians of the public purse, could
 1363
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  said, he rose with great pain to speak of the conduct of an hon. gentleman who was his own colleague. He was compelled to do so, in consequence of an allusion which had been made to him in the speech of his learned friend on Friday last, and which had been made public. He had been applied to by his learned friend as to the character of the petitioner: and, feeling that he had no right to refuse the information required, he had communicated it in the terms which his learned friend had read to the House. He had added, however, that as there had been election jealousies between his friend and those of colonel Crosbie, he wished to avoid any interference in the business, and particularly requested that his name might not be mentioned. Whether this did or did not preclude his learned friend from mentioning his name, the House would decide; but he must now state that it was his intention he should not do so. Not that he wished to conceal his having given the petitioner a character, but he wished not to lend any corroboration to the charges which had been made. In this spirit he had written the letter which had been quoted. He was satisfied that his explanation would be sufficient to gentlemen who heard him, on whatever side of the House they sat; because he knew that personal feelings, in matters so delicate as that of which he was speaking, were held by them paramount to all political inclinations. It had been hinted to him, that it might elsewhere be believed that the petition had originated with him. To those who knew him, it was enough to say that such an imputation must be, of its nature, false. If he had thought it necessary to make any charge, he should not have disgraced himself by adopting indirect means. So far from encouraging the charge, he had abstained from all correspondence with the petitioner, whom he ad not seen for some years; and he had not replied to his letter, because although he knew that, in the county in which they both resided, any correspondence would be construed into an encouragement; and he had written confidentially to a friend of his, desiring he would have it understood that he was no party to the affair. He concluded by saying, that
 1364
 Mr. Wynn  opposed the bringing up of this petition. It contained charges against an hon. member of that House, which, if true, would expose him to a criminal prosecution, and the constitution had provided a proper tribunal for the investigating, such accusations. If the House should proceed upon the petition now before it, they could only do so by examining, witnesses as to the truth of the allegations, and afterwards directing the attorney-general to prosecute. This they could not do without expressing an opinion upon the subject; and he called upon the House to consider, with how great a prejudice they would afterwards send a person, to his trial by a jury. Another ground of objection was, that his hon. and learned friend had not stated that this charge had been brought before the; notice of the public functionaries, whose duty it would be to prosecute. On the part of the government, he could state, that there existed no disposition to screen
 1362
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  said, that there was a phrase in the petition, relative to the dismissal of the petitioner, which he would be glad to explain, in order to prevent any misapprehension to which it might otherwise be liable. It was stated that, whatever were the merits of the trial, the means employed against the petitioner were base and treacherous. This did not apply in any manner to his (Mr. F's) colleague, nor to the parties concerned, and least of all to the government. It referred to a former petition presented by the petitioner, when he was dismissed from office in 1817, in which he complained, that his dismissal took place in consequence of a conspiracy among persons in his own employment, at the head of whom was a clerk he had dismissed for pecula-
 1365
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that he could not perceive the propriety of allowing the petition to he on the table, unless it was intended to follow it up by some further measure. He, however, did not see what measure could now be adopted, and therefore thought it useless to place the petition before the public.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that the hon. member for Corfe Castle had objected to his hint about placing the royal library at Whitehall, that the banquetting-room was unsuitable for such a purpose, from its construction as to windows, and from the impossibility of making reading-rooms near it. Now, the banquetting-room at Whitehall was 115 feet long by 60 broad, and 55 feet high. It was the largest room in England except Westminster-hall, and would contain the whole of the collection in question. He had his information upon this point from a gentleman whose means of knowledge were perfect; and the words in which that information was conveyed were these—"The hon. member for Corfe Castle is as much mistaken as to the banquetting-room at Whitehall, as he was in supposing that marble could be burnt without the aid of a kiln." In fact, it was a little surprising how the hon. member had fallen into that mistake; because there was scarcely an ancient marble now remaining in the world, which had not been dug from some house or situation which had been consumed by fire. For himself, he still thought Whitehall incomparably the better place for the library; and was averse to spending money upon such a piece of patchwork as the British Museum.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  complained, that an hon. member had assumed, that the House was prepared to go a very considerable way in accordance with the views of the hon. member for Aberdeen. He, for one, was not prepared to advance one step along With the hon. member. He objected to his motion altogether. He disliked the form in which the hon. member had brought the question before the House. The practice of proposing resolutions declaratory of the opinion of the House had, he was sorry See, become very prevalent of last. If the hon. member considered the law which subjected individuals to punishment improper or unnecessary why did he not move for its repeal? In the resolution which the member
 1400
 Mr. Ricardo  said, that the last act he would commit would be to misrepresent the opinions of any individuals. He had gathered Mr. Owen's opinions from the Works which he had published. After reading the speeches which Mr. Owen had delivered in Ireland and other places, he had come to the conclusion, that Mr. Owen did not believe in a future state of rewards and punishments. It was one of the doctrines of Mr. Owen that a man could not form his own character, but that it was formed by the circumstances which surrounded him—that when a man committed an act which the world called vice, it ought to be considered his misfortune merely, and that therefore no man could he a proper object for punishment. This doctrine was interwoven in his system; and he who held it could not impute to the Omnipotent Being a desire to punish those who, in this view, could not be considered responsible for their actions.
 Mr. Ricardo  said, he had heard with pleasure a great part of the speech of his hon. friend who had just sat down, and the remainder certainly with no inconsiderable concern. The greater part of that speech had been in support, of the opinion which he (Mr. Ricardo) held^ in common with his hon. friend who had introduced the motion; namely, that no man had a right to dictate his opinions, upon abstract opinions to another, upon, peril of punishment for a refusal to adopt them; and his hon. friend had further admitted, that so long as the controversy upon such topics was conducted with decency, it ought not to be prevented by force of law. Now, he lamented that when his hon. friend had thought proper to quote the sentiments of Dr. Paley, he had not given them more at length, for he would, in the writings of that eminent individual, find a more large and liberal spirit of toleration, than he was disposed to admit practically in other parts of his speech.
 Mr. Ricardo. —That, certainly, was Dr. Paley's only exception; and lie, as well as the other chief ornaments of the church, for instance, Dr Tillotson and Dr. Porteus, had asserted, in the largest sense, the right of unfettered opinion. If the validity of such opinions were admitted, who could approve of the operation of the Jaw of this country in such matters? Who could sustain those impolitic and unjust prosecutions? What was the prosecution of Carlile for republishing the "age of
 1387 1388 1389 1390 1391
 Mr. Brougham  hoped that he should be allowed to offer a few words. He was fully aware of the difficulty which had been pointed out; namely, that of turning the course of criminal justice, into that House; and as a general principle, he could not but assent to his right hon. friend's observations. But there was another and not a less important difficulty—that the House should avoid the imputation of being too slow in receiving charges against its own members. Here was a distinct charge of the abuse of patronage by a ministerial member of a county. In the case of lord Melville, he had been censured by the House for an indictable offence, and the House had afterwards directed his prosecution by the attorney-general, although that mode of proceeding was afterwards abandoned for that, of impeachment. His right hon. friend would say, that this was in his office of public treasurer; but there was another case—that of Thomas Ridge, a member of the House in 1710, who was a brewer, and a contractor with the Victualling-board; but not, therefore, a public functionary. He contracted to furnish 8,000 tuns of beer, and delivered only 3,000, having received payment for the whole. The House examined into the charges, expelled the member, and followed up that proceeding by an order to the attorney-general to prosecute. So that he was sent upon his trial, not only with the vote of the House about his neck, but under the additional weight of their sentence of expulsion. Of so little importance did he (Mr. B.) consider this, that he thought a man could not go into court with a better chance in his favour, than a prosecution by the attorney-general, in pursuance of a vote of the House. He thought, notwithstanding the difficulty which he admitted, the House could not refuse to receive the petition. When a day should be fixed for its discussion, the attorney-general might be directed to prosecute, and thus the difficulty would be got rid of.
 Mr. Brougham  was sure that what Iris right hon. friend had just said, would establish the futility and groundlessness of the suspicions which he had felt himself under the painful necessity of repelling. He could confirm every statement which his right hon. friend had made. He regretted, however, that he had not known that his right hon. friend wished the whole of his letter to have been suppressed, or he would not have read the extract from it. As to reading the whole of it, his right hon. friend would see that he could not have done that, without distinctly disclosing who was the writer. As to the petition, he was merely actuated by a sense of duty in presenting it for he had never been more plagued about any thing in the whole of his parliamentary experience. The House was, however, bound to protect its purity. It was bound to guard against the abuse of the influence which the members of it might have with his majesty's government. He did not think, therefore, that the House would do its duty, unless it received the petition. What it should do with it when it had it, was another question.
 Mr. Brougham  rose again to present the petition of George Rowan, complaining of his having been dismissed from his office of collector of excise, and accusing colonel Crosbie (a member of the House) of having received money from several persons for procuring situations for them; having inquired into Mr. Rowan's character, and having found that he was a man of veracity and good reputation, and one whose statement,  prima facie,
 Mr. Horace Twiss  said, it had been intimated by the hon. member for Montrose, that the greatest enemies to religion were those, who sought to uphold her by the measures, which it was the object of this motion to abolish. If that be the case, Sir, continued the hon. and learned gentleman, I, and those who think as I do, have indeed most miserably deceived ourselves. But the hon. gentleman's argument, though I think it erroneous in regard to religion, is applicable enough to that liberty of the press, whereof he is the strenuous advocate. For if any artful man, who should be as much an enemy to the liberty of the press as the hon. member for Montrose is, I doubt not, its friend, were contriving to obtain the reimposition of that licenser's veto, by which, with the intermission only of two or three years in the reign of Charles 2nd, the press continued to be fettered until some time after the accession of king William,—I can imagine no mode by which he would be so likely to forward that alarming design, and stifle the objections to an antecedent censorship, as by exempting irreligion and blasphemy, when once published, from the animadversion of an English jury, and securing to their authors the impunity which is now proposed [Hear, hear]. For what has been always the argument against the imposition of any previous censorship? Why, that though there are certain opinions, whose public circulation would endanger the peace and well-being of the people, yet that evil is likely but seldom to occur from the unfettered discretion of individuals, so long as they continue responsible to the law, for the excess, or abuse, of that discretion. In other words, we agree, in this particular case, considering the greatness of the good that arises from a free press, to do what, in general, would be somewhat indiscreet, to exchange a preventive for a merely penal control. But what is the doctrine now? It is not, as it once was, that the state, instead of taking the responsibility of licensing the press upon itself, should leave all publishers under a responsibility of their own; but that all responsibility shall be remitted altogether. I apprehend, Sir, that if harsh restraints are apt to lead to popular excesses, popular excesses are apt in their
 1392 impious tending to the subversion of the Christian Religion: 1393 1394 Can ever med'cine him to that sweet sleep He owed but yesternight. 1395 public opinion, vulgar error 1396 ad invidiam. 1397 some 1398
 Colonel Crosbie  embraced that opportunity of saying, that the impression on his mind originally was, that the hon. and learned gentleman had received the information he possessed from his colleague. He now, however, felt satisfied that such was not the case.
 Mr. Croker,  on rising to move an amendment, expressed his general assent to what had fallen from the hon. member for Westminster. He thought the British Museum a very ill-contrived; inconvenient, insecure building, and wished very much
 1358 l.
 Mr. Butterworth  asked, by how many ministers of the Church of England it was signed, and of what class of dissenters the other petitioners consisted.
 Mr. Hume  replied, that it was signed by dissenters of all classes.
 Mr. Hume  rose for the purpose of presenting a petition which he considered of great importance. But before he did so, he begged to correct an error which had got abroad respecting what he had said last night. He had been made to say in one publication, that he disapproved of dissenters altogether; when, in fact, he had only expressed his disapprobation of that sect to which an hon. member belonged. His acquaintance lying very much among dissenters, many of whom he knew to be most intelligent and virtuous men, he should have belied his own experience if he had said so. He was of opinion, that general censures were always wrong; and, as his feelings had been excited on the occasion to which he alluded; by the in-
 1366 1367 1368 1369 1370
 Mr. Hume  then rose for the purpose of making the motion of which he had given notice. His object was, to obtain the admission of that principle, which he had always thought to be part of the law of this country, namely, that every individual was entitled to freedom of discussion on all subjects. At Edinburgh, where he was brought up, it was held, that any man might entertain and express his opinions, unless they became a nuisance to society, when, perhaps, they might be brought under the operation of the common law. Since the year 1817, however, a disposition had been manifested to prosecute persons for the publication of did as well as new works, the object of which was, to impugn the authenticity of the Christian faith. He was aware that since the period to which he had referred the number of such publications had increased; but he thought, also, that the progress which had been made in knowledge, and the extension of education to all classes of persons, had brought with it a remedy for this evil. Looking at the advantages which resulted from the freedom of discussion, and the part which able men were always ready to take in behalf of true religion, he thought it would be doing equal injustice to that religion and to the community, to adopt any other means of arriving at the truth than by fair discussion. He had always been led to believe, that the greatest blessing which Englishmen enjoyed was the complete freedom with which they were permitted to express their religious opinions, and to follow whatever sect or persuasion their own opinions coincided with. Recollecting, too, that we enjoyed the blessings of a religion which had been established by means of discussion, and by differing from those which had preceded it, he thought the House would act unjustly, and with bad policy, if it should now turn round upon those who differed from us, as we differed from those who had preceded us, and exercise a rigour which, in our own case, we had been the first to deprecate. Such a course, he was convinced, was more likely to generate doubts and ignorance than to give any stability to the religion. It was quite evident, that persons who wished to investigate religious subjects must meet with a great variety of opinions. Some of these might confirm their belief; while others might give rise to doubts. Now,
 1372 1373 1374 1375 1376 ratio ultima, 1377 1378 1379 1380 1381 1382 1383 1384
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not press the House to a division.
 Mr. T. Wilson  trusted, that the House would show, by its vote of that night, that its opinion was not in unison with those which had been expressed by the hon. member who spoke last. He thought that the minds of the people had been poisoned by the blasphemous publications which had been spread abroad. The
 1399
 Mr. Money  opposed the motion. Since parliament and different societies had done all in their power to disseminate the blessings of education, care ought to be taken that those blessings should not be abused. His principal object in rising was to do justice to an individual who had said alluded to during the debate—he meant; Mr. Owen. An hon. member had said that Mr. Owen disbelieved in a future state. He had communicated with Mr. Owen, arid he had great reason to believe that the hon. member had mistaken the opinions of Mr. Owen. He begged the hon. member to state in what part of Mr. Owen's works he found that opinion promulgated.
 Mr. Peel  said, that although he did not recollect the particular facts of the case, he was certain the object of government in dismissing the petitioner was not to provide for any other individual.
 Mr. W. Smith  could not see the pertinency of the hon. member's question. The petition was, however, signed, he could assure him, by persons whose religious opinions were as perfectly opposed to each other as possible.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that this was a very grave subject, and except when, as on the present occasion, it was mixed up with certain questions of law, he deprecated its discussion in that House; and, even under such circumstances, it ought not to be frequently agitated. He could not help thinking that these subjects were always better conveyed through the medium of the press than by a debate in that House, where the discussion was necessarily limited, and angry and violent feelings were likely to obtrude. He could assure the House, that no man felt more disgust than he did at the publications for which Carlile had been prosecuted; but, at the same time, he thought that liberty of conscience without the liberty of divulging one's opinions, was a poor and imperfect privilege. The only question raised that night was simply this—whether all manner of treating religious subjects should be allowed in controversy. He had long thought upon this subject; and the result of his reflections was, the conviction that it would be better to leave such matters to the general opinion of society. He then urged the impossibility of establishing a safe test of opinion for the penal guidance of society. What in England they thought moral and just, might not be equally so considered in India. The Brahmin who, from motives of religion, sanctioned the burning of Hindoo widows, might, if left to his decision, consign to the same flames the Englishman who complained against so cruel and irreligious a practice.
 Mr. Wilberforce  proceeded to address the House, hut in a tone so low, as to be for a considerable time inaudible in the gallery. We at length understood the hon. member to defend the Constitutional Society and the Society for the Suppression of Vice in the course they had taken, and to maintain, that both those bodies were not only fully justified, but much to be applauded, for having exerted themselves for the suppression of offences, which, in every sense, was  contra bonos mores. 1385 1386
 Mr. Wilberforce. —Dr. Paley distinctly excepts to the treatment of such subjects with levity und ribaldry.
 Sir J. Yorke  observed upon the great sums which had been laid out on the Elgin marbles, and the inconvenience of their present situation. He recommended that Somerset-house should be completed, the unfinished state of which was a disgrace to the capital and the country; and that a gallery should be added, in which these marbles might be deposited, together with what other works of art the money which the House should choose to vote would purchase. At all events, he trusted that no more money would be granted until a regular plan should have been submitted to the House, of the intended alterations.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, he could not consent to such an application.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  could have wished that the hon. gentleman had reserved his observations for the regular stage of discussing the bill, instead of incidentally arguing the merits of the question upon presenting a petition. The hon. gentleman must excuse him if he declined to follow so inconvenient a precedent, or to discuss with him now the propriety of practically applying the theory of the British constitution, and the institution of trial by to a state of colonial society so essentially different from that of the parent country. As to the bill, he considered it necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the report of the parliamentary commission, and did not see that there was any ground for hearing the petitioner by his counsel.
 Mr. Marryat  thought it important that time should be allowed for ascertaining whether this bill was as perfect as it ought to be. As to the benefit of the introduction of the trial by jury, he looked on it as doubtful, in the present state of the colony. He was of opinion that several
 1404
 Mr. Forbes  was of opinion, that some clauses in the bill were objectionable. He defended the administration of governor Macquarrie, and objected to the report of commissioner Bigg, on which the bill was founded, and on which no confidence could be placed. He thought the instructions to that commissioner ought to be laid on the table for the purpose of ascertaining how far he had complied with or exceeded his instructions. On the whole, he thought more time ought to be allowed for the consideration of the bill.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, it was in tended, in the Committee, to introduce a clause by which the operation of the bill would be so limited, that instead of extending to 8,000 individuals, it would scarcely extend to as many hundreds. In fact, it would operate only on those who had just completed the term of their transportation.
 Mr. Marryat  remarked, that the question for the House to determine was, whether they would see with their own eyes or with the eyes of the executive government? He had great confidence in the disposition of the colonial department to abstain from any act of injustice, but he could see no reason for objecting to hear counsel. If the argument in support of the petition should prove invalid, it would have no effect on the House; if, on the contrary, it should prove valid, it ought to induce them to pause before they acquiesced in the measure.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that whether the proposition he was about to support was or was not agreeable to the House, he alone was responsible for it. He had had no interview with any member on the subject. He had no connexion whatever with the Chief Baron of Ireland, nor with any of the friends of that learned indivi-
 1423
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he did not see how they could avoid proceeding on this occasion. The hon. member had alluded to the inconvenience which must result, if this charge were left pending over the chief baron. Now, in some shape or other, charges more or less modified must be understood as having been preferred against him; and if he were to point out the most favourable and the least culpatory shape in which they could be placed on the Journals, it was by pursuing the course proposed by the hon. member for Limerick. How did the matter stand? The charges came founded on the reports of the commissioners. If the House rested where they now were, the interval between the time of accusation and of trial would not be the less long; and the inconvenience to which the chief baron would be subjected must be aggravated rather than lessened, because he would not have the advantage of knowing exactly on what points, growing out of those reports, he was hereafter to defend himself. On the other hand, if the charge went on, and resolutions of fact were agreed to in the committee (resolutions stating that such and such charges were made in the reports, but neither negativing nor affirming them), that proceeding would not affect the character of the chief baron, and would afford him more ample means for his defence.
 Mr. S. Rice  defended the course which he had taken in this proceeding. It had been said that they, could not fairly go on unless the chief baron was heard; but the question was, whether he had not been heard? Allusion had been made by the hon. member for Cork, to two reports of the commissioners, and two reports of the committees of that House, but he had totally forgotten to mention two letters written by the chief baron himself, relative to the conduct which had been complained of.
 Mr. Wetherell  opposed the going into the committee, as an act that would be useless to the public, and unjust towards the individual accused. The learned gentleman then alluded to the case of the earl of Macclesfield, against whom articles of impeachment were carried up to the Lords. In this case, owing to the form of the hon. gentleman's proposition, such a course could not be adopted. He thought it a great injustice to the learned judge that it should be proposed to leave his character, for the space of eight or nine months, under such an imputation as the entry of these resolutions would cast upon it. On the grounds he bad stated, he was compelled to differ from his right hon. friend as to the steps which the House ought now to take; and, anxious as he was to secure the pure and impartial administration of justice; and desirous as he felt, that every offender in the way that the lord chief baron was said to have offended in, should be severely punished, he could not consent to that House clothing itself with a criminal jurisdiction, even in such a case, if that was to interfere with the criminal jurisdiction, exercised by the courts of law of this country.
 Mr. Wynn  would consent to the House going into a committee, not for the exercise of a criminal jurisdiction, but in order that it might act as a grand inquest in the matter. Certain charges, however, had been made against the learned individual in question; and he (Mr. W.) would have preferred that those charges should have been exhibited at their bar, and that the House might then have either decided such charges to be proved or have at once repudiated them. He concurred with those who considered that the learned chief baron had, in fact, been heard once already, by the course he had adopted of writing letters containing a defence of his conduct, and especially by
 1425
 Mr. Bankes  said, he had not been apprised of the nature of the resolutions.
 Mr. S. Rice  observed, that he had always stated, that the preliminary resolutions were resolutions of fact; the final one was one of inference. He would read that and the one by which it was immediately preceded;—"That it is because it has been stated in the reports of the commissioners appointed by this House, and confirmed by a subsequent report, made after a special reference to them by his majesty's government, that the emoluments of the chief baron of Ireland have been increased by the invention of new, and the extension of ancient, fees, on the sole authority of the chief baron himself." A subsequent vote of the House in committee, had confirmed the substance of this resolution. The inferential resolution, which might or might not be agreed to, was to this effect—"That the power of creating and extending fees thus reported by the commissioners of inquiry to have been exercised—if proved to have been exerted in their increase by the lord chief baron, in the manner stated in the reports of these commissioners, at his sole discretion, and he being himself interested therein, is inconsistent with the laws and constitution of this realm."
 Mr. Bankes  said, it was quite clear to him that it was impossible to enter on such a matter at that late period of the session. The hon. gentleman then remarked on the peculiar hardship of the chief baron's, case, pending the prosecution of the proposed inquiry. This learned individual was invested with a high judicial office, which there was no power, even in the Crown itself, to prevent him from discharging the duties of, in the interval that must elapse before the investigation could be brought to a close. Was it fit, then, to leave one of the judges of the land under this cloud of suspicion and imputation from the end of one session to the commencement of another? The hon. gentleman then proceeded to show the inexpediency and injustice of entering those resolutions on their Journals at present, though the matter might be taken up at the earliest period of the next session.
 1426
 The Solicitor General  observed, that one of the grounds adduced for the propriety of entering these resolutions on their Journals was, some extraordinary delay which was supposed to have taken place in the furnishing the House with the report on the matters under inquiry. The hon. and learned gentleman then shortly stated the proceedings of the commissioners of inquiry, from the date of the 9th report down to their final report. He was very averse to entering into this committee at all; not only in consideration of the late period of the session, but looking also to the character of the several reports made by the commissioners. From those reports, it was clear that no charge was, in fact, established against the chief baron. And if so, was it for a committee of that House to record one against him, arising out of the subject matter of those reports? It had been stated in the House and in the resolutions themselves, that the chief baron, in increasing these fees, had acted contrary to the laws of the realm. This was quite incorrect. When lord Erskine was made chancellor, he, by his own fiat, immediately raised the fees of the subordinate officers of his court. Now, though it might be said, that this case of subordinate officers was not the same thing as increasing the judge's salary by a judge himself, the proposed resolution was still most, erroneous. Gentlemen were bound to look at the language of the commissioners' fifth report. They said "that they would not give an opinion whether judges in Ireland could legally increase their own fees and the foes of their own courts;" but they added that, "such a practice had prevailed in Ireland for a hundred years past, during which period such an increase had taken place in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas Courts. Was it not cruel, then, to impute to the chief baron corrupt or improper motives; and, if it was only an error of judgment, would it not be still more cruel to record any such resolutions on their Journals? On these grounds he still opposed the going into the committee." If
 1427
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the question was, whether they should now stand still, or go back? He thought they had no option but to go into the committee. The House now proposed to give the chief baron an opportunity of knowing what the charges were against him, to which he would have to answer. He would have the benefit of the interval between this and next session for the preparation of his defence, and all the advantage would be with the chief baron, in short. He did feel, however, that this was a case of the most extreme difficulty, insomuch that, if he could with any fairness or justice to the chief baron, he would have said tonight, "I will proceed no further." But, after what had taken place, he was bound in justice, to the chief baron, to see him through the affair. Should the case be, unfortunately, proved, he (Mr. A.) thought the next proceeding ought to be by address, rather than by impeachment.
 Mr. Hume , looking to the 5th report, seeing that precedents for what the chief baron had done were to be found within the last century, and adverting to the smallness of the increase which had taken place in those fees, really thought it impossible to impute to the chief baron any corrupt motives of mere personal emolument. In this feeling, he had himself prepared a resolution to that effect, which resolution, the hon. and learned member for, Peterborough had expressed his approbation of, and which, or something equivalent thereto, he (Mr. H.) did conceive that the House was in strict justice called upon to concur in.
 Mr. Goulburn  supported the motion for going into the committee.
 Mr. S. Rice  submitted his first resolution. It was declaratory of the fact, that from the reports of the commissioners of courts of justice in Ireland, and from the report of a committee of the House, it appeared, that the chief baron had received fees in certain departments of his court, to which he was not legally entitled. 1428
 Mr. S. Rice  had no objection to this amendment, if the learned solicitor would agree to add to it the words which immediately followed them in the report from which they were taken.
 The Solicitor General  objected to the addition.
 Colonel King  wished to state the reason why he, a mere tyro in the House, should come forward to second the motion. The reason was, that he had known Mr. Ogilvie for five-and-twenty years, and had the greatest regard for him, and the greatest respect for his character. During the years 1809, 1810, 1811, and 1812, he had served with him, in the peninsula, and that gentleman had there conducted himself in a manner which drew upon him the highest approbation of all who witnessed it. When the army was placed in circumstances of the greatest difficulty, Mr. Ogilvie by his activity and perseverance, had materially contributed to furnish it with the necessary supplies. In corroboration of these statements, the hon. member read the testimonials of several distinguished officers, among whom were sir W. Stewart, major-general D'Urban, &c. All that he wished was, that some adequate com-
 1409
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  begged to assure the hon. member who had introduced the present subject, and the gallant gentleman who supported him, that in opposing the motion, he did not wish in the least to detract from the merits of Mr. Ogilvie, either generally as a commissary, or particularly with respect to the transaction now before the House. But he must say, that the general merits of Mr. Ogilvie, as a commissar, had nothing to do with the question they were then called on to consider. If that were the case, the only point to ascertain would be whether Mr. Ogilvie had received adequate remuneration for the services he performed? But in the present instance, the question was, whe-
 1410 coup-de-main: l., l., l. l. l 1411
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was not aware of the cases referred to having taken place; but he knew that when booty was obtained by a particular detachment of the army, it was divided among that detachment.
 Colonel Davies  thought that nothing could be more injurious to the discipline of an army, than to allow individuals to possess the booty which they might obtain by marauding.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he felt on every account the propriety of compressing the observations which he had to make on the present occasion into as narrow a compass as possible. He knew how much the House had been fatigued within the last two weeks, and I he might himself say that, individually, he had experienced the full effects of that fatigue. He should, therefore, proceed without further preface to lay his statement before the committee. As, at
 1413 l. l. l. 1414 l. l. l. l. l. l., l. l. 1415 l. l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l., l., l. l. 1416
 Mr. Maberly  congratulated the House
 1421
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  merely wished to say, that the loan alluded to was in a course of negotiation which he hoped would prove successful. At present he could say nothing as to the terms of the negotiation, nor as to the probable result, but should confine himself to the statement, that every disposition existed on the part of both the governments to come to an amicable adjustment of the debt.
 Mr. Bright  said, that the petition, complaining as it did of the non-introduction of the trial by jury into a British colony was most worthy of the consideration of that House. He regarded the trial by jury as quite necessary for the freedom and civilization of the colony. The real question in this case was, whether the colony was to remain to them a useful auxiliary, or become a source of inquietude and danger. The principle of the colonial government ought to be to amalgamate all the classes of society in the colony; and what better mode of doing so could be devised, than securing for them that invaluable privilege which brought the rich end the poor into an honourable contact.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move that the papers presented to the House, on the 19th of June last, relative to the capture of the ship Requin, in the river Garonne, in March, 1814, by Mr. Ogilvie, a commissary with the British army in the peninsula, be referred to the consideration of a Select Committee. The hon. member said, that he proposed, with the permission of the House, to lay before it a brief statement of the claims of Mr. Ogilvie, by whom the vessel had actually been taken. In the year 1814, in consequence of the succession of brilliant victories achieved by the British in the peninsula, the army under lord Beresford, who was then second in command, became masters of Bourdeaux. Mr. Ogilvie was directed by lord Beresford in the execution of his duty as a commissioned officer, to proceed in a boat, accompanied by one of his clerks, and take possession of the vessels in the Garonne. That gentleman accordingly proceeded to execute this commission and had discharged it; when the clerk suggested to him, that some vessels might possibly be stationed lower down the river. Upon which, Mr. Ogilvie, having engaged ten French royalist sailors, directed them to row down the river. This they accordingly did; and when they had proceeded about two miles, they discovered on turning an angle of the river, two vessels lying near the shore, one of which, was evidently a ship of war, and the other a merchantman. The sailors who were in the boat immediately recognised the ship of war to be an American privateer, called the Requin, which had been very successful against the English merchant-vessels. As the Requin had a
 1406 1407 1408
 Mr. Buxton  replied. Mr. Ogilvie, he said, had received but 75 l. s.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that Mr. Ogilvie had stated several instances in which individuals were allowed the exclusive enjoyment of the booty they obtained. He wished to know from the chancellor of
 1412
 Mr. Hume  said, that he was somewhat
 1422 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that according to the hon. gentleman's own shewing, the bill would deny to any person who had completed his term of punishment, and who ought therefore to return to the rights of an Englishman, the enjoyment of those rights.
 Mr. R. Colborne  vindicated the conduct and character of commissioner Bigg, than whom, he said, a more honourable man did not exist. He could assure the House he had not been appointed to that situation by earl Bathurst on account of personal acquaintance, but because he had filled with credit an official situation in the island of Trinidad.
 Sir J. Mackintosh , in rising to move that the petitioner be heard by his counsel, called the attention of the House to the important fact, that if the bill passed with the clauses which it at present contained, 8000 freemen were liable to be transported without trial, at the mere will of the governor. If the House should, after this statement, refuse to hear the counsel of persons who had so deep an interest in the measure, let the fault lie with them. For his own part, he would enter a practical protest against such a proceeding, and would call for a division, even though he should stand alone.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, that after the intimation which he had received from the under secretary for the colonies, it became necessary to advert to the effect of these provisions on a numerous body of British subjects, whose interests were undefended in that House, and whose present claims and future prospects were seriously affected by them. The colony of New South Wales had ceased to be a mere receptacle for convicts. It had latterly grown into considerable importance, and was rich in all the capacities which promised eventually a high destination. Its inhabitants were composed of a greater number of European origin, than was to be found in the whole of our Asiatic settlements. Independently of the 20,000 convicts whose situation was not affected by the bill, there were the free settlers and the freedmen. The first class amounted to 4,000, the second to 7,000. There, was, besides, that numerous class, the progeny of convicts, born in the colony—persons whose innocence was unquestioned, and whose claims to the protection of British law were not vitiated by any misconduct of their parents. It was no argument to say, that heretofore these rights were overlooked in the administration of the colony; The parliament were now taking the first step in legislating for its interests, and it therefore was the more incumbent on that House not to entwine around such a principle the shoots of tyranny and arbitrary power. On what
 1402 1403
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he rose to present a petition from Mr. Eagar, a merchant and inhabitant of the settlement of New South Wales against two provisions in the bill then in its passage through the House, for the better government of that colony. The first provision against which the petitioner prayed was that which deprived an English subject of his right; to the trial by a by the substitution of a court martial composed of a prescribed number of army and navy officers, selected by the govern or and by a strange perversion of language designated a jury in the present bill. The se-
 1401
 Mr. Bankes  said, there was no affinity between the amendment and the original motion.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the old letter in which the bills were now written out, was more likely to be legible 200 years hence, than the Italian hand in general use at present. The ordinary writing-hand was subject to much variation; the old letter used in the bills would be subject to no variation at all.
 Mr. Ricardo  thought the time would hardly come when the common Italian hand now in use would be unintelligible. The change suggested would save considerable expense, and greatly expedite the dispatch of business.
 Mr. Hume  said, that if his amendment was opposed, he would withdraw it. The subject, however, seemed to him of so much consequence, that he should give notice of a distinct motion upon it for tomorrow.
 Mr. S. Rice  then said, that the resolutions now agreed to were resolutions of fact; but as the others were resolutions of inference, and as the right of a judge to increase his own emoluments at his own discretion had been denied, by entertaining the present question at all, he now only wished to have the resolutions already agreed to, inserted on the Journals; and
 1430
 Mr. Hutchinson  strongly objected to the course pursued towards the chief baron. They ought not to imply criminality, where they had declined to adopt the only course which could put the subject upon a fair hearing, namely, enabling the individual accused to be heard fully in his defence.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  was of opinion that those who opposed the present
 1431
 Mr. Wetherell  concurred entirely in the impropriety of adopting a course which implied criminality, where no previous inculpation had been sufficiently established. If a man were attacked in a criminal court, the party prosecuting must proceed with the accusation. Why should parliament adopt a different course? Why should they agree to a series of resolutions which neither pledged the House, nor any individual member of it, to proceed one step further? The resolutions implied criminality; and he could not suffer them to be placed on the Journals, unless a distinct pledge was given that they would, without delay, be followed up. He could not consent to leave the business in the way which was now proposed. It placed the character and conduct of the chief baron in an equivocal light, even with reference to that House; but, out of it, amongst those who had no opportunity of considering the case, these resolutions must be viewed as criminating the chief baron.
 Mr. Lockhart  was of opinion, that when the House took up matters of this kind, they ought to proceed to their immediate determination. They were not upholding their character for justice, by entertaining the same charges year after year.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know what course his hon. friend meant to pursue. It would be improper to leave these resolutions as a dead letter upon the Journals. At the same time, he thought this neither a case for an address, for a removal, or for an impeachment. What, then, were they to do? For his own part, although he was not prepared to justify the course taken by the chief baron, yet he was equally unprepared to proceed to any course of ulterior severity. If the chief judge of the Irish Common Pleas (who was upon this question of fees equally culpable) was not to be called to account for his conduct in such matters, with what justice could they proceed in a severe manner against chief baron O'Grady? He concluded by proposing a resolution declaratory of the course already taken by the House, and declining to proceed further, as the case now stood.
 Captain O'Grady  expressed his anxiety to have a vote on the subject then before parliament, convinced as he was, that that vote would be in perfect accordance with his own feelings. He did not blame those by whom this investigation had been instituted; but he had to complain that this was the third year during which the charge had been preferred; and he begged of gentlemen to look about them, and to ask of their own hearts, whether such a House as was now assembled was a fit one in which to decide this question? He should be sorry that the resolutions should be passed in so thin a House as that. Let the question be brought forward in a full House, and let the conduct of the chief baron be fairly investigated. He was convinced that if due consideration were given to the subject, by such a House as he had alluded to, every shadow of imputation would be removed from his character. It was most unfit that, year
 1432
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that he had not anxiously pressed on this inquiry; on the contrary, he bad, on more than one occasion, stated that he was ready to postpone it, if a wish to that effect were but breathed by gentlemen concerned in the question. No such wish had been expressed; and therefore he had found himself imperatively pressed to the performance of that duty, which public motives alone had induced him to undertake.
 Mr. Spring Rice  proceeded to move a resolution, that the chief baron had changed the practice with reference to certain fees, by removing the payment of them from the time at which the decrees were pronounced, to the commencement of the suit; the consequence of which had been, that fees on 478 causes had been paid, in 134 of which causes, decrees had not been pronounced.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, if the resolutions were reported, that it would be necessary for the House to express some opinion upon them.
 Mr. Calcraft  said that finding if he pressed the insertion of the compulsory clause, it might retard the bill, and being desirous to see it in operation, he should forego the intention he had formed of introducing that clause. As he was sure that, in the next session, the bill must be considerably altered, he should postpone until that period, his proposal for adding those provisions which were necessary to complete the measure.
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  said, that having been one of the first to bring the subject of Irish tithes before the Housed he could not resist the opportunity which was afforded him of expressing his exultation at the success of the measure. He thought the country was much indebted to his majesty's ministers, and he hoped that no alterations would be made elsewhere which could have the effect of defeating its wise provisions.
 Mr. C. Grant  moved the third reading of this bill.
 Mr. Robertson  entreated the House to pause before they sanctioned a measure which went to the repeal of the system of navigation laws, Under which this country had been raised to the highest state of commercial and naval pre-eminence. He cited Adam Smith in support of his opinion: and expressed his regret that his arguments should be opposed, with any chance of success, by a new political economists, whose principles he considered decidedly erroneous the landed
 1435
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  seconded the amendment. If, however, the present subject should be again brought before parliament, and an opportunity given to the ship-owners to state their options on the measure, he would support such inquiry.
 Mr. Rumbold  said, that, undoubtedly, the statements of the right hon. gentleman were entitled to consideration; but they Were met by counter-statements on the part of the ship-owners, and he trusted that, in a measure of such importance, the House would pause, in order that the truth might be ascertained. The shipping interest did not require protection; but they protested against an entire alteration of that system which had so long prevailed, and to which our greatness had been so much attributed. In every department, whether of building, fitting, wages, or provisions of seamen, the expense doubled or trebled that of the foreigner. When such was the statement of the ship-owners, it was not too much that the period intervening between this and the next session should be given to the consideration of the measure.
 Mr. Marryat  opposed the bill, and contended that the Navigation laws were the only sure protection of the maritime interests of this county.
 Mr. Huskisson  contended, that the period had now arrived, when it would be impossible for Great Britain to continue any longer the system of restrictive duties, without inducing retaliation on the part of foreign countries; the effect of which would be most disastrous to our commercial interests. Something had been said respecting the necessity of re-
 1439 l.
 Mr. Stuart Worthy  thought that the principles which now began to work in regard to commercial regulations, must ere long be applied to those of agriculture. So many impolitic restrictions called protections being removed from the trade and shipping, it would be impossible to retain, for any considerable time, the protection given to agricultural produce. At any rate, the present enormous rate of the protecting duty on grain could not be long continued, but must be brought nearer to the standard of the European markets.
 Mr. Ricardo,  in supporting the bill, said, it was the bounden duty of ministers to place the British, as nearly as possible, upon a footing with the foreign ship-builder.
 Sir J. Bridges'  objected to the bill in toto. For, what was it? Neither more nor less than an invasion and subversion of the rights of the ecclesiastical establishment, in violent opposition to the opinions of the clergy, who had not been heard. It had been said, that the hierarchy alone were in opposition to the bill; but such was not the case, for the whole diocese of Armagh was, with scarcely an exception, against the measure. 
 Mr. Bright  was anxious that time should be given, to inquire into the merits of a question of such vital importance, and would, therefore, prefer referring it to a committee.
 Mr. Hume  supported the bill. The measure could not, he said, place the shipping interest in a worse situation than it was at present, while it promised great advantages to them and to the country generally.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that the world now pretty well understood that the interests of navigation and commerce were identified, and inseparable. The most whole some policy seemed to be not to benefit one of those great interests as the hon.
 1436 1437 1438
 Mr. T. Wilson  opposed the bill, and complained, that the ship-owners had not been allowed an opportunity of stating their case. If that had been done, and refutation had been given to their opinions, he would have supported the bill.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he took a different view of the bill from that which had been taken by the hon. member for Bristol. He thought that the colony was not yet fit for such an institution as the trial by jury. The number of persons who could be found in New South Wales fit to sit upon a jury was small indeed. The possession of wealth in that country by no means indicated (of necessity) respectability of character; for many of the most opulent and extensive land-holders had acquired their property, even in the colony, by the most dishonest and disgraceful means. According to the report of Mr. Biggs, out of 4,376 remitted convicts in New South Wales, 369 only were living in any degree of respectability upon their means. Even where there were men of great property, they had often acquired it by acts of the grossest swindling. A person who had been transported for an act of robbery on a bank on a large scale had carried with him the property, and was living opulently in the colony. A person who was living with this individual as a servant, had written home, that it was a happy night in which he had committed the robbery for which he was sent there, as he was servant to "Squire Love," who was a gentleman of great opulence and liberality. With such a population, the institution of jury-trial could not turn to good. He remembered that at Turin, he was informed, that though Bonaparte had done a vast deal of good, he had introduced one law, winch had spread terror throughout the country, namely, the examination of witnesses  vivâ voce, 1451
 Mr. Secretary Canning  observed, that as the complaint contained in the petition was that of wilful misdirection from the bench, courtesy, he thought, ought to have induced the learned gentleman not to bring forward so grave a charge in a questionable shape. The learned gentleman himself admitted that there appeared to be some mistake in one part of the petition; and certainly with some small inquiry, he might have learned what the real facts of the case were. In his opinion, the best course would be, to withdraw the petition until the learned gentleman could communicate with the parties who were affected by it; and if it were necessary, he might bring it forward hereafter.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, that although the bill had been returned with numerous amendments from the other House, the only one he was disposed to quarrel with was that in which the punishment of flogging had been introduced. The clause inflicting that punishment in the original bill was wisely ejected by that House; but if it were now allowed to become a part of the law, magistrates would resort to nothing but force for the correction of those unfortunate persons confined in gaols, and every parish would have its Dr. Thwackum. For his part, he should never rest till he rescued the people of England from the beastly and barbarous punishment of flogging. Within the last seven years, the number of persons flogged in this country amounted to 6,959. It was but a short time back that two children were flogged in Newgate, and then, with their flesh torn and lacerated, they would have been sent out on the streets to thieve again, if a humane person belonging to the prison had not obtained their admission to a house of refuge. He (Mr. B.) had since visited them, and had drawings made of the state of their backs,
 1447
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, that this was a bill which related to New South Wales, most especially in the light of a British colony; whereas, in its previous measures with respect to this settlement, government had always treated it rather as the destination of certain individuals, who were sentenced on account of particular offences to be transported thither from the mother country. In the commissioner's report that had been lately printed, three places had been particularly designated as proper for the foundation of a new settlement, to be so ordered and governed as to combine the two great and, sometimes, incompatible advantages, of effectuating the objects of the law by the imposition of punishment, and of rendering the services of the individuals so punished useful to themselves and to the state. Of these three places, one in particular, which had already had a partial trial—he meant Norfolk, Island, situated to the north of the colony—was singularly well calculated, from the beauty of its climate, and the fertility of its soil, for the esta-
 1448 1449
 Mr. Bright  said, that the trial by jury had been always justly considered as one of the proudest marks of freedom. With respect to the colony in question, Mr. Justice Bent had expressly and forcibly recommended that form of trial. It was a great mistake to suppose that the population of New South Wales was not prepared for that form of trial. The colony of New South Wales was not a colony of convicts. There were to be found there many free settlers who had voluntarily embarked their character and their capital; and who, on every principle of justice and policy, were entitled, as free Englishmen, to all the privileges and rights of the constitution. With respect to convicts, many convicts resided in New South Wales, having satisfied the severe penalties of the law, who were at this moment most industrious and valuable members of society, and who were deserving the rights of British subjects. He thought, therefore, that upon every fair view of the situation of the colony, and upon principles of public policy, the trial by jury ought not to be withheld. He thought that the bill professed to settle a variety of objects, too important to be so disposed of at the termination of a session. The trial by jury, as contemplated, was a farce; the Insolvent Court was a system of monstrous absurdity and injustice; and as for the Court of Requests, and the Court of Foreign Attachments, if any necessity for such tribunals existed, their formation might be deferred for another year. The bill was drawn with such an utter contempt of every principle of British jurisprudence, that he doubted whether all the lawyers in the house would ever be able to get it into shape. As for the council given to the colony, what did it amount to? The members were appointed by the Crown; they
 1450
 Mr. Brougham  said, that this was precisely one of those cases which it would be unfit for him to accompany with any statement. He had refrained from doing so, and the whole responsibility rested with the petitioner. This was precisely the course he had adopted on a former night, when presenting a petition, of the statements in which he personally knew nothing. He was not in such a case bound to make any statement; but, as the petition was respectful towards the House, he thought it right to present it. The present was also just one of those cases in which he thought the petition should
 1446
 Mr. Brougham  said, he held in his hand a petition from a person of the name of John Quin, a surgeon, of Belfast, to which he wished to call the attention of the House, as it complained of a very great abuse in the administration of justice. He knew nothing personally of the petitioner, or of the facts which his petition related. The member for the county in which the transaction 'was said to have occurred, had, he believed, left this part of the kingdom, and therefore he could not make any inquiry from him with respect to the petitioner or his statement. The language of the petition was, however, perfectly respectful towards the House; and on that ground he felt it to be his duty to present it, without pledging himself in any way whatsoever, and without indulging in any comment that could tend to prejudge the case. If, however, the whole or any particular portion of the petition were founded on fact, it did appear to him to disclose a case which called for the interference of parliament. The petitioner stated, that five years ago he brought an action against a person with whom he happened to have an affray, which action was tried before Mr. Baron M'Clelland and a special jury. A verdict was given against him, and he was taken in execution for the payment of costs. The consequence was, that he was ultimately ruined, and was obliged to take the benefit of the insolvent act; his prospects which before were very fair, having been completely blasted. The charge now made by the petitioner divided itself into two parts. The first was against
 1443 distringas 1444 1445
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that this was a charge preferred against a judge for wilfully misdirecting a jury; and, before the House received it, they ought to be put in possession of the fact which was contained in the petition itself—that application was made for a new trial before the whole court, and all the judges concurred in thinking there was no ground for granting it. It should also be recollected, that the trial complained of took place five years ago.
 Mr. Denman  insisted upon the justice of realizing the hopes held out to all those to whom the governor had granted pardons. He contended against the policy of appointing officers in the army and navy to decide questions, on which property, liberty, and even life might depend. He would give the colonists the advantage of jury-trial as in England. By placing such confidence in the people there, they would be excited to a much greater respect for themselves and the law; than could be looked for while they were deemed unworthy to be intrusted with so valuable a privilege.
 Mr. Peel  said, that it was impossible that the details of the bill could have been fully considered by ministers, in consequence of the great press of other important business. With respect to the clauses which related to rendering the pardons granted by the governor valid,
 1452
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that the bill bestowed none of the blessings of the British constitution on the inhabitants of New South Wales, with the exception of that simple, summary, cheap, and expeditious system of justice of which they had recently heard so much—the Court of Chancery. The policy which England had adopted towards her colonies had been various at various times. The first and best had been that under which Englishmen carried, wherever they went, the institutions of their native land, and under which colonies, instead of subaltern despotisms, became societies of freemen. All the arguments now used against the extension of trial by jury to New South Wales, might have been applied to the extension of trial by jury to the colony of Virginia at the time of the Revolution. There were many convicts, many slaves, and few persons of considerable property. Yet we saw the beneficial effects of free institutions in Virginia. The next system pursued was, the introduction of absolute power into the colonies, of which ah unhappy example had been given in Canada. Each of these systems was consistent in itself—one in good, the other in evil; but the present experiment wavered between both. He deprecated most strongly the impolicy and injustice of postponing those clauses of the bill, the object of which was to confirm the pardons granted by the governor of the colony, on the ground of the necessity of revising those pardons. The object of those clauses was, to secure the individuals, to whom the pardons were granted, in their persons and possessions, and it was an act of the greatest injustice to postpone the consideration of them to another session.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was aware of the regulations and the clause to which the hon. member alluded. The object of the present hill was solely to establish the uniformity of practice in Ireland and Scotland, with respect to the regulations and collection of the duty. It would have been desirable to assimilate, as much as possible, that practice to the English; but although the committee had made some suggestions on the subject, the report had not been received, until it was too late to adopt them. By the present law, a Scotch distiller wishing to avail himself of the advantage of the English market, was obliged to give twelve months' notice; during the whole of which period his still must be idle. Now, he could not admit the justice of this law with respect to the Scotch distiller; but as it was clear that the interest of the English distillers would be materially affected by the clause which he had intended to propose, he did not see how the House could refuse to hear them by counsel if they wished. He saw, however, that this would delay the bill so long, that it might endanger its passing in the present session, and rather than
 1459
 Mr. R. Douglas  supported the introduction of the clause.
 Tne Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in withdrawing the clause referred to, pledged himself that, next session, he would submit tot he House a measure to regulate the intercourse in spirits between the three kingdoms, upon a more equitable and intelligible principle than that now existing.
 Mr. Hutchinson,  in delivering his sentiments the bill before the house, took the opportunity of alluding to a petition when had been presented on the part of the Irish brewers, in which they stated, that it had always been the anxious desire of the Irish parliament to encourage the consumption of malt liquor; and entered into a detail, to prove the propriety of encouraging that manufacture, and the injurious consequences of any measure tending to check it. Now, if the right hon. gentleman persisted in the present bill, it was but fair to give the Irish brewers some protection. The bill, as it respected Ireland, introduced two very important alterations; one was, the reduction of the duty; the other, the permission to work small stills. In his opinion, the reduction of the duty was a measure of a very doubtful character; and, as to the permission to make use of small stills, it was, with reference to Ireland, a perfectly revolutionary measure. Heretofore, the principle acted on was, to encourage large stills, and the consequent employment of extensive capital. Now, however, it was proposed to put small stills in competition with the large ones; and the probability would be, that, in proportion as the small stills were brought into action, those of a larger description would be injured, and persons who had vested their fortunes in property of that description would suffer severly. The right hon. gentleman had given nonce, that he would, in the ensuing summery give his most serious attention to the whole of the distillery system, for the purpose of simplifying it; and an hon. member had declared, that the British distillers were anxious for an investigation of the subject. He knew not what was intended to be done; the whole
 1460
 Mr. Herries  stated, that there were several clauses about to be brought which would be added as riders to the bill.
 Mr. S. Rise  thought the whole proceeding of the gentlemen opposite was open to much objection. The measure now before the House would lead to collision of interests. It was a bill of detail; and yet there were not three members of that House who had had ah opportunity of knowing whether it was just or unjust. After excuses from gentlemen opposite, for the lateness of the period at which it was brought forward, and complaints from those who were interested in it, on the
 1461
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that having been favoured with a sight of the resolutions, he did not expect that their discussion could have called for such observations as those in which the hon. member had indulged, with respect to the disbursements made by the commissioners of land-tax out of the public money. If there were any such as he had mentioned, no doubt it was wrong; but the hon. member must be aware that those commissioners were appointed by act of parliament, and were hot under the control of the Treasury. It could not, therefore, be expected that government could be prepared to answer upon those points, Leaving them, them, he would come to the resolutions; and he trusted, that in a few words he should show that they ought
 1470 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Maberly,  after suggesting to his hon. friend to withdraw the resolutions as they were founded on an erroneous assumption, observed, that if those commissioners were not under the control of the Treasury, it was high time that they should be, or that the House should take the subject into its own hands. He was of opinion, that the best way would be to leave the subject to his majesty's ministers, who were the fittest to examine into it; but, if something was not done in it early in the next session, he hoped his hon. friend would bring it again before the notice of the House.
 The Solicitor General  expressed his conviction that no corrupt motive could be attributed to the learned judge. If the resolutions, however, were agreed to, and placed on their Journals, they would imply, a censure on him, unless followed up with some such resolution as the one which he had prepared, without concert with any body, and which he would now move: viz. "That it does not appear to this House that there are sufficient grounds to ascribe the alteration stated to have been, made by the chief baron of the Exchequer in Ireland, in the fees of his court, to any improper motive on the part of that judge."
 Mr. S. Rice  declared that he should have been willing to have followed up the resolutions of fact, by a resolution expressive of the opinion of the House; but from that course he had been deterred by what he understood to be the opinion of a great number of gentlemen.
 Dr. Lushington  said, he was completely taken by surprise by the hon. and learned gentleman coming down at that hour, and moving a resolution, which was in fact decisive of the whole question.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, it had been distinctly understood, that the object of confining his resolutions to mere matters of fact, was to give the chief baron fair parliamentary notice of what was going on, that he might be prepared to explain, and defend his conduct. Now, however, it was suddenly proposed to agree to an exculpatory resolution.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the question on which he was called upon to decide was not, whether the chief baron was guilty or innocent, but whether he should be put on his trial or not. He was for not putting him on his trial.
 Colonel Barry  wished the hon. and learned member for Peterborough would adopt the precise words of the report of the commissioners.
 Lord A. Hamilton,  although he was bound to admire the right hon. gentleman's candour, could not approve of his determination to withdraw the clause.
 Colonel Trench  said, the measure now under consideration was not founded on the principle of balancing the interests of Scotland against those of Ireland. For the first time, the whole question had been put on a proper and fair footing by the right hon. gentleman. He was convinced that, if the licensing of small stills was pushed still further, the result would be most beneficial. The army would not be demoralized, as they now were, in consequence of their being continually employed in what was called, "still-hunting."
 Mr. Canning  would not express any opinion on the resolution proposed by his hon. and learned friend. He would rather wish the hon. member for Limerick would propose a resolution.
 Mr. Brogden  reported the resolutions of the Committee of the whole House on the conduct of the Chief Baron of the Irish Exchequer. The said Resolutions are as fallows:
 
 1. "That, in consequence of an address from the House of Commons, his late majesty was graciously pleased to issue a commission under the great seal for examining the salaries, duties, and emoluments of the several officers, clerks, and ministers of justice, within that part of the United Kingdom called Ireland; and that the commissioners so appointed have laid before parliament eleven several reports, founded on the examination of the parties, as well as on evidence taken on oath, the ninth and eleventh of which reports relate to the judicial fees of the court of Exchequer in Ireland; that, on the faith of the reports of the commissioners so appointed the legislature has acted, regulating some offices, abolishing others, and introducing a new system of proceeding in the courts of King's-bench, Common Pleas, and the common-law side of the Exchequer." 2. "That the office of lord chief baron of Ireland is an office of the highest dignity and importance, on the impartial and uncorrupt execution whereof the honour of the Crown and welfare of the realm greatly depend." 3. "That the right hon. Standish O'Grady was appointed lord chief baron of his majesty's court of Exchequer in Ireland in the month of October 1805,
 1472 l. 4. "That it is stated in the aforesaid ninth report, that by art alteration of practice introduced by the present lord chief baron, fees are now received for his lordship's use on bills of costs on the law side of the Exchequer, in cases where the bills of costs are not and never were made out; that a select committee having considered the statement of the commissioners, and the evidence taken on oath before them as aforesaid, together with the reply of the lord chief baron, and having reported thereon to the House, and the said report, together with the reply of the lord chief baron, having been referred by his majesty's government to the said commissioners, the said commissioners, after a further examination of the lord chief baron and of other witnesses on oath, have again reported, that by the alteration of practice introduced by the present chief baron, fees have been received for him on bills of costs in cases where no bills of costs existed; and that it is further stated in the report from the select committee on the eleventh report of the commissioners of inquiry, that the direction of the chief baron, as slated by Mr. Pollock, to whom it was personally given, that the fee of 2 s. d. 5. "That it is stated in the aforesaid ninth report, that, in pursuance of an order made by the present lord chief baron, fees have been received as for his lordship's signature to a description of writs, on which, previously to the year 1805, no fees have been charged; that, notwithstanding such charge, these writs still remain without signature, except in
 1473 6. "That it is stated in the aforesaid ninth report, that, pursuant to an order made by the present lord chief baron, certain fees, which had, previously to such order, been accustomed to be received for the said lord chief baron in Irish currency, has been subsequently charged in British currency, whereby the amount of such fees has been augmented 8¼ per centum." 7. "That it is stated in the aforesaid ninth report that an ancient fee is payable to the said lord chief baron on perusing and signing every decree, and a like ancient fee, of the same amount, for every exemplification of a decree (not under the four seals), but that no other fee is payable to the lord chief baron, in respect of any decree, or any copy thereof." 8. "That it is stated in the aforesaid ninth report, that, pursuant to an order made by the present lord chief baron, the ancient fees so payable on perusing and signing a decree, has been collected on the previous proceeding of setting down the cause for hearing, notwithstanding which, a like fee was again demanded and paid to the lord chief baron on making up the decrees, although one only of such decrees appears to have been exemplified; that a select committee having considered the statement of the said commissioners, the evidence taken on oath before the said commissioners, and the reply of the lord chief baron, and having reported to this House, and these several reports having been referred by his majesty's government to the said commissioners, they have, after further examination of the lord chief baron, and of other witnesses on oath, reported to this House, that the distinction between exemplifications and copies had been understood and maintained in the court of Exchequer, and that previously to the appointment of the present lord chief baron the fee upon signing a decree had been the only fee accruing to the lord chief baron upon the passing of a decree." 9. "That the said reports of the commissioners of inquiry, so founded upon evidence taken on oath, and upon the
 1474
 Mr. Daly  was of opinion, that the hon. member for Limerick could not justly complain of being taken by surprise.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as his object had been for the present answered, by calling the attention of ministers to the subject, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his resolutions.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in what he was about to state, upon introducing some resolutions relative to the collection of the Land-tax, it was not his intention to occupy much of their time; but having devoted much labour and attention to the consideration of the manner in which this, tax had been long collected, he could not allow the session to pass without taking the opportunity of calling the attention of government to its serious importance. Ever since he had been induced to call on parliament to institute an inquiry into the extensive subject of the receiveres-general and their offices, he had felt convinced that the mode in which the land-tax was raised in this country imposed a considerable expense on the public, and a needless loss upon some classes of the community. From what passed on the occasion, to which he had just adverted, he did indulge a hope that the Chancellor
 1462 1463 1464 l. l. l.; l. l., l., l., 1465 l. l. l. 1466 l., l. l. l. l. s. d., l. s.; l. l. l. s. d. 1467 
 "1. That, by various returns presented to this House, during the last and present session of parliament, it appears, that the land-tax of England and Wales, made perpetual by the act of 38 Geo. 3rd, c. 60, was fixed at 1,989,673 l.: l., l. 2. "That from the period of passing the act of 38 Geo. 3rd, c. 60, to the 5th of January, 1822, the sum of 692,613 l. l. 3. "That these returns show an actual reduction between the amount received in. the years 1821 and 1798, in the annual amount of land-tax, of 755,505 l., l., l. 4. "That out of the 701,414 l. l. 1468 l.; l. l.: l. l., l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman certainly was not consonant to the understanding which had been come to on the subject.
 Captain O'Grady  said, he should be perfectly satisfied with the resolu-
 1476
 Mr. Wallace  said, the opposition which the hon. member threatened to the new clauses was but an indifferent reward for the anxiety which government had manifested to meet the wishes of all parties. The question had been discussed with those who were most affected by the bill, and there was not a clause which was not founded on the suggestion of the parties themselves. To the landed gentlemen of Ireland and of Scotland, government looked for the success of this measure: and if they afforded it support, he believed the bill would accomplish all the objects which those who framed it promised to themselves.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  never understood-that the delay in passing a resolution of opinion, grounded on resolutions of fact, was to be the delay of a session. It might, however, be expedient to adjourn the discussion.
 Mr. W. Smith,  understanding that it was the intention of the Chancellor of the Exchequer to add, upon the third reading of this bill, a clause relative to the Scotch distillers, begged to inform him that he had a petition against that clause from the English distillers, who prayed to be heard at the bar by their counsel.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  rose to present a Petition from the body of the emancipated colonists of New South Wales, complaining of certain disabilities to which they had been subjected by the courts of law in that territory, and from which, they had hoped to be relieved by the bill before the House, for
 1457 l. lâches, 1458
 Mr. Scarlett  said, he was strongly inclined to concur in the substance of his hon. and learned friend's resolution. He certainly did not believe that the conduct: of the learned judge in question was imputable to corrupt motives. He suggested, however, that it might be expedient to word a resolution to the following effect:—"that it appears by the fifth report of the commissioners, that for the last 100 years a discretionary power has been
 1475
 Mr. Scarlett  consented to do so, and observed, that the early part of his resolution would then be to the following effect, "That it is stated in the fifth report of the commissioners, that it is not their province to discuss 'how far, or within, what limits, the judges of the superior courts of law, are authorized to establish new or increased fees for their own services;' 'but that it will be, seen, from the table subjoined (to their report), that a discretion of this nature has, in fact, been exercised to a considerable extent at some period or periods within the last one hundred years; and that, during the time of the present chief justice of the Common Pleas, such an exercise of judicial authority appears to have occurred in three instances.
 Mr. Western  said, that if the hon. gentleman had persisted, he should have given the bill his support. He complained that, in the taxes repealed this session, there had been an entire forgetfulness of the peculiar distresses of the landed interest. It had been his intention to have moved for a considerable reduction of the malt-duty, but he had been prevented by circumstances; and he now gave notice, that early next year, he would submit a motion for reducing the malt tax to the amount imposed prior to the last war.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that he was assured his hon. and learned friend had not read the returns made to the House, of the number of public houses in England. The number in London was 4,142; in the country, 43,919; making together 48,061.
 1495 l s.; s. l. 1496 s. s. d.
 Mr. Peel  said, that he had requested the hon. member to postpone the bill, not because he felt a decided objection to its principle, but because so important a measure required more deliberate consideration. He agreed with the hon. member, that a more frequent deliverance of gaols was, as a principle, a good one, but there were difficulties in the way of the details of such a measure, which he had not been able to overcome. He thought there might be an addition to the number of judges, as he saw no charm in the number of judges, unless its antiquity. He believed sixteen would be a more efficient number than twelve. He allowed that great advantage, had been derived to the public from the appointment of a third assize upon the Home circuit, but he doubted whether an additional assize
 1497
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  did not approve of a third assize, and felt sure that it would be very objectionable to those who formed the juries in the several circuits. Two assizes were quite sufficient. If the labours of the Bench were more than could be reasonably expected from the judges, they ought to appoint others to relieve them, upon those circuits where the extraordinary business might require it. There was one officer who might be immediately put upon that duty. He meant the Cursitor Baron of the Exchequer. It was true that the worthy gentleman who held that office was advanced in years; but it would be well to take care, when his successor should be appointed, to select a person who might furnish the required assistance.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that when government directed a second assize to be held through the northern circuit, they ought to have taken care to provide the additional expenses to which they had subjected the judges.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he could take none of that blame upon himself, for he had done all that was in his power for the accommodation of the judges. He had not only done so in his own county, but at the request of lord Sidmouth, he had waited on the bishop of Durham, and asked his lordship if he would have any objection to take in the judges at the Castle in the winter, the same as he had done hitherto on the spring assizes. That right reverend person told him in plain terms, that he would not take them in, and requested him to entreat the lord chancellor to select younger judges for the circuit, alleging the great inconvenience as to the attendance and means of accommodation from the visits of the old judges. He had talked over the subject of these additional expenses with Mr. Justice Park, and had strongly advised an application from the judges themselves upon the subject. Mr. Justice Park had said, that he would have nothings to do with it. The rest of his learned brethren were at liberty to apply if they pleased, but as he possessed property enough for an independence without it, he would continue to bear his own expenses.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the only objection he had to make to the statement of the hon. member was, that the accounts of extraordinary expenses of the judges going
 1498
 Mr. Brougham , in corroboration of the statement or his hon. friend near him, said that the very reverend prelate in question had been quite as good as his word. The judges were allowed to come, but it was at their peril. His reverend lordship would have nothing to do with the expense of their entertainment. He took them into the castle but that was all. He thought the least that could be done wag to relieve the judges from any additional expense which might be imposed upon them, in consequence of their labours being thus increased.
 Colonel Palmer , on rising to make his promised motion, began with stating, that the motive which had urged him to address the House, was a conviction of the danger of the country, arising out of the conduct of the government with respect to Spain, and the language of the late address to his majesty upon the subject. He might naturally be asked, considering the protracted debate upon that question, the reason of his not having stated his opinion at the time; and confessed that his reluctance to obtrude himself upon the attention of the House, joined to the expectation that the same opinion would have been felt and expressed by others more worthy their attention, had prevented him in the early stage of that discussion, but that, he had repeatedly endeavoured to address the House upon the last night of the debate. Having then failed in such endeavour, and the question being equally, if not more important to the country at the present moment, he would take the liberty of stating the different view which he had taken of it, from that of every horn member who had hitherto spoken upon the subjects It appeared to him, that truth and sincerity were as necessary to the honour and interests of a nation at of an individual; and upon this ground he contended, that the late address should have openly expressed the indignation of the House at the conduct of France and the allied powers; because, by not expressing it, the nation was exposed to the charge of not feeling, or not daring to avow it. He also contended, that the address should as openly have stated, that inability of the country to render Spain assistance was the
 1499 1500 1501 1502 1503 1504 1505 1506
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that certainly the mode proposed by his learned friend (Mr. Scarlett) was the most convenient and expeditious way of getting rid of the question altogether; and he would leave, it to those who advised such a course, and who were willing that judges should, exercise the power which was censured by the commissioners in their report, to take the whole responsibility of the proceeding on themselves. He should move, as an amendment to the resolution of his learned friend, to add thereto the following words; "but that it is not stated in
 1507
 Mr. Scarlett  opposed the amendment, on the ground that it went to add a sting to the resolution, which the circumstances of the case did not justify.
 The Solicitor General  argued, that the amendment was not in unison with the facts stated in the report.
 Mr. R. Smith  said, he could neither approve, of the original motion nor the amendment. The former contained a fallacious apology for the chief baron; the latter implied a censure. Both the one and the other was a departure from the express understanding of the House, which was that no opinion should be expressed on the case at present. He felt himself incompetent to decide on the question, either one way or the other He could not, on looking at the report, and at the chief baron's defence, declare him to be innocent; but it was impossible S r him to pronounce an opinion on the subject, on almost the last day of the session, and without sufficient information. The case ought to rest until the ensuing session.
 Captain O'Grady  defended the conduct of the chief baron, who, he contended, had made out a good case, both with reference to law and usage. He might, undoubtedly, have been mistaken in his view off the subject; but it did not therefore follow, that he was culpable and corrupt. He (captain O'G.) was most anxious, that the decision of the House should be come to in the present session.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  could see no benefit that was likely to accrue from postponing the question to another session. If it were, put off for six months, would they, in 1824—when their recollection of the facts would be weakened, and when they would hot be able to command a more numerous attendance of members than at present—be in a better situation for deciding, than they were at present? If this practice of regulating fees were an improper one, it, would be better to bring in a bill for as abolition, than harass and condemn an individual, by keeping a series of criminatory resolutions suspended over his head.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that as it was distinctly understood that the investigation was to be renewed next session, he had taken no part in it. For the same reason,
 1508
 Lord A. Hamilton  understood that no resolution but of facts was to he, placed on their Journals; and that circumstance had kept many members away, who would otherwise have been present. It was, he admitted, most irksome, that a judge should have charges hanging over him, while he was exercising his judicial functions. But, whose fault was that? The fault of the gentlemen opposite. The delay came entirely from the other side of the House. He would ask those gentlemen who wished to set the question at rest now, whether a decision, adopted at such a period of the session, and in such a House, could carry any weight with it?
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he had all along declared that he was ready to go on with this inquiry, provided the House would come to the plain proposition of acquittal or condemnation. His hon. friend (Mr. S. Rice) had, however, pursued a course which appeared to him to be most unfair to the Irish public and to the chief baron. He had importuned the House, until he had caused to be entered on the Journals a series of what he called resolutions of fact, but which contained matter of crimination. He was of opinion, that the question should be put an end to now; because he did not believe his hon. friend had any intention of bringing it forward next session. If he meant to institute any ulterior proceeding, let him erase those resolutions, which did not advance his purpose one jot. He believed the chief baron to be innocent. If the question were to be considered, it would be found full of difficulty; and in the end he was sure they would have to acquit the chief baron altogether. At all events, if they discovered an error of judgment in his conduct, he was convinced they would acquit him of corrupt motives. He could, not, therefore, consent that those resolutions, which were of a criminatory character, should be suffered to hang over the head of the chief baron.
 Mr. Wynn  thought its would be better to pass the two resolutions now before them in the first place; and afterwards to proceed to the third.
 Mr. S. Rice  having withdraw his amendment, the resolution was agreed to.
 Mr. Scarlett  then observed, that, after
 1509
 Mr. Wynn  felt himself compelled to oppose this resolution. The question here was, whether a person who had taken improper and unwarrantable fees, assuming that that could be proved, ought to be continued in the high situation which he occupied in the judicial administration of the country? Now, when such a question was to be decided, it was surely imperative on the House to institute a strict inquiry. The integrity of a judge, like the chastity of a woman, or the courage of a Soldier, was a matter of that delicate nature, that it ought to be above all suspicion; and this being the case, it made no difference to the importance or the necessity of the inquiry, whether the excess in the fees charged by the chief baron was confined to so many pence or so many pounds. The right hon. gentleman then adverted to the reports of the commissioners of inquiry, and animadverted on the conduct therein imputed to the chief baron; to which charges that judge had not hitherto offered such a defence as ought to preclude the House from adopting some ulterior proceeding.
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  was decidedly for immediate investigation. He thought further delay in every respect inexpedient and improper.
 Captain O'Grady  said, the fact was, that the chief baron's defence, as contained in his second letter, was founded on matters contained in a report which had not been published when his first letter was written. It would be a little too hard if the House should concur with the learned member for Peterborough in making it matter of imputation against the chief baron, that he had, in the hurry of his first letter, misnamed a document, by terming that a decree which was in fact an exemplification. It was not, therefore, a new defence which was contained in his second letter; but a defence on new matters, as alleged in the report made subsequently to his former letter.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his unwillingness,
 1510
 Mr. Wetherell  was of opinion, that the House should come to some conclusion this session on the subject before them; and, looking to the painful situation in which further delay must leave the character of the chief baron, and seeing no case made out, he would support the resolution proposed by his hon. friend.
 Mr. R. Martin  defended the chief baron, and expressed his intention of supporting the resolution.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney , in order to ground the resolution proposed by the learned all the resolution after the word "That," in order to add the words, "the receipt of Fees by Judges in the Courts of Common Law and the Exchequer has been recently abolished by Law."
 Mr. J. Williams  said, he could by no means support the resolution of his hon. and learned friend.
 Mr. Goulburn  contended, that no case of criminality or corruption had been made out against the chief baron, though his conduct might not have been quite so well advised as could have been wished.
 Mr. Canning , after briefly reviewing the proceedings which had been taken upon the reports in the House, admitted that he found it difficult to remove his own responsibility, in having been chiefly instrumental to persuading the hon. member for Limerick to adopt resolutions of fact merely, and not to embody anything in them which was only matter of opinion. He knew nothing of the chief baron. Nothing had ever occurred to induce him to turn his thoughts towards that personage. But his impression of the importance of the charge and the nature of the proof, had been weakened at every step of their progress. He could not concur in any vote tending to censure; nor could the House, he thought, assent to any resolution which could be made the ground of an address to the Crown for his removal, or of an accusation by way of impeachment.
 Mr. Hutchinson  concurred in the opinion of the right hon. secretary, that the chief baron could not be inculpated by any thing which had come under the observation of the committee.
 Mr. S. Rice  felt satisfied that, however the House might decide, the labours of the committee would not be lost to the public.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that in consequence of the sickness which prevailed in the Penitentiary, it would be desirable to confer upon the governors of the institution the power of a temporary removal of the sick prisoners to places where their recovery was likely to be facilitated. He hoped that, under the circumstances, the House, even at that late period of the session, would not object to allow him to bring in a bill for conferring a power of removal similar to that which was possessed with respect to persons confined in the Hulks. He then moved for leave to bring in a bill, to authorize the temporary removal of convicts from the General Penitentiary.
 Mr. Hotford  agreed that the situation was by no means unhealthy, and that the sickness was not connected with the local circumstances of the prison.
 Mr. Brougham  rose for the purpose of moving, that the order for the committal of the Retail Beer Bill be discharged indefinitely. He observed particularly upon the strong opposition which this bill had met with from the brewers whom it was intended to aid, and from the landed interest, whose distresses it would most importantly alleviate. Because, however wheat had risen, he had been abandoned by the latter, and left to struggle against all the influence of the former. He hoped that both parties would know their interests better next session. He should always be at their service, and should be ready to moot the subject again, whenever they should support him; but unaided, he should not be disposed to make any exertion on behalf of parties who seemed so blind and indifferent. His measure for Educating the Poor had met with precisely the same fate. The bills were drawn, printed, and even the blanks filled up, and might be introduced again at any time. He had spent days and nights in perfecting the measure; and because it was beneficial generally, but offered no increase of emolument to any one party in particular, he had been compelled to abandon it.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  expressed his approbation of the motion, as in all cases of illness change of air was advised. He denied that there was arty ground for the prejudice that the Penitentiary was un-wholesome on account of its vicinity to the river, for it was am historical fact, that in times when the plague prevailed, those
 1494
 Mr. Peel  added, that there was no ground, for supposing that the disease lately prevailing in the Penitentiary was owing to its local situation.—Leave given.
 The Attorney General  thought that a great deal of the remarks and censures upon individuals indulged in by his hon. and learned friend might well have been spared. The commission to be appointed
 1520 1521
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he had a few words to offer, only to one point of the discussion. He professed his ignorance of the general nature of the plan, and therefore would reserve his opinion until he should be better informed. It was admitted on all hands, that the evil was excessive, and that the necessity for a remedy could not be disputed. It was as plain that the appellate jurisdiction must be left with that tribunal which was of the highest authority in the kingdom. He could not say that this was the best possible plan. But, a doubt had been expressed by the hon. and learned gentleman whether, upon, instituting and installing this substitute, supposing that he should not fulfil the expectations entertained, concerning him and his office, it would be open to the House to go into a discussion upon the merits of a judicial office in the upper House. It was to this point, he wished to reply. Undoubtedly the House would be at liberty to deliberate upon this subject, without at all infringing upon the orders and constitution of the other House, and that too by the exercise of their own proper, jurisdiction; for, by the time this new machinery would be up and ready for use, the House would be called upon to provide for the salary of the new office. Up to 1816, the pay of the officers and clerks of that House, was provided for retrospectively. Since that period, the provision had been prospective; and he found on the estimates of the present session, an item for the salary of lord shaftesbury for this current year. It was obvious, therefore, that the House would have full opportunity for renewing the whole of this subject, at a period nearly as early as that in which the experiment was to be made.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  did not rise to oppose the motion, to which he would have agreed without observation, did he not feel it to be an act of justice towards sir T. Maitland to make a few remarks on what had fallen from the hon. gentleman. With respect to the alteration in the duty on grain, if it could be regulated by any fixed principle, as might be the case under ordinary circumstances, the observations of the hon. member would be just; but, when it was recollected that the island depended upon a foreign supply, he could not assume, because a change was made in the rate of duty, that the system was bad, or that there did not exist some sufficient reason for the change. The hon. member had argued, that there ought to be an independent board of health at Malta, the same as at other ports, instead of the system of regulation which now prevailed there. But he could not have read the correspondence for which he now called, or he would have found, that the merchants admitted the theory of the quarantine system to be more perfect at Malta than any where else. Vessels carrying susceptible goods were formerly placed in quarantine for forty days. That period was now lessened one-half; others carrying goods less susceptible were detained for a shorter; time; and a third class, not likely to have any thing infectious on board, were placed under what was called the quarantine of observation. There was not, as the hon. member had asserted, any favouritism, in the invidious sense of the word, manifested towards men of war. If more indulgence was shown to them than mer-
 1529
 Mr. Wetherell  said, that he considered the measure adopted in the other House of Parliament merely as a choice of considerable difficulties, and as such assented to it. He did so the more readily, because there appeared no necessity for rendering the appointment a permanent one.
 Mr. Brougham  rose to make a few observations on the nature of the bill, and other matters connected with its consideration. He stated, that the object of the bill was to facilitate inquiry, relative to the forms of process and proceedings in appeals in Scotland, by means of commissioners. This he looked upon as a much filter mode than the old practice; as it would obviate much of the trouble and expence incurred by sending for judges and practitioners, to ascertain points of form which evidence taken before commissioners would now furnish. He took occasion to urge the necessity of selecting able and intelligent persons for the performance of such a duty; as they would have task of no ordinary difficulty to discharge. They would have to come in contact with persons of a very acute and penetrating habit, much addicted to dispute, and not at all disinclined to start objections, even to first principles. Besides, the forms of pleading at both bars were very different, and therefore it was necessary that the commissioners should be judiciously selected; that the object of the bill might not fail td be carried into effective execution. He proceeded to say, that the bill had been carried through the other House with the support of a noble and learned lord, who would have done well to consider, whether its principles might riot be applied to the administration of justice in another part of the united kingdom; for he believed the forms of process in Scotland were not more prolix or objectionable, than those of the English court of Chancery. When the noble and learned lord at the head of that court did the other House, in carrying the resolutions on the appellate jurisdiction, evince a great anxiety to facilitate the proceedings of Scotch law, he ought not to have forgotten that the process of the court over
 1513 vexata questio. 1514 1515 1516 1517 1518 1519
 Mr. Abercromby  maintained, that the present was the only occasion on which his hon. and learned friend could animadvert on the strange and anomalous plan in question before it was carried into execution. He thought it was matter of much regret, that an opportunity for considering the subject had not been afforded until so late a period of the session. Nothing could be more interesting to the people generally, and more especially to the people of Scotland, than a proposal to alter and vary that roost important of all matters to the subjects of this realm—the ultimate decision of justice in the House of Lords. He knew no question of more deep and general interest than that which is hon. and learned friend, the Member for Lincoln, had agitated this session respecting the court of Chancery. Whether his hon. and learned friend, who this year had brought the abuses of the court of Chancery before the House, pursued the subject at another period or not, he was convinced the public would never rest, till a thorough investigation of the whole of those abuses had taken place. With respect to the appellate jurisdiction, the measure in contemplation would render the holder of the new appointment a greater person than the lord chancellor himself; for appeals might come before him from the court of Chancery; the lord chancellor's Deputy in the House might thus become his superior, as an equity judge. So far also as regarded the present Scotch appellants, he thought they ought to be allowed to withdraw their appeals, in case they should not approve of the new jurisdiction which Parliament appointed to decide them, but which in preferring those appeals they had never anticipated. It had been said, that this could not properly be called an innovation, because it was not intended to be a permanent alteration. But the did not dread innovation when permanent good was the object in view; although he most strongly objected to changes which were only to meet temporary emergencies. By the present measure a plan of profit would be created, and every man must know in his conscience, that if the existing administration were able to show the necessity of the appointment now, a future administration would he able to shows the necessity for continuing it. The result, in short, of this and the other alterations which had been made in the duties of the head of
 1523
 Mr. J. Williams  expressed his disappointment that the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had not favoured the House with his sentiments upon the present subject. For his own part, he could not avoid expressing his conviction, that it was not the appellate jurisdiction only, but the whole business of the court of Chancery, which Parliament ought to investigate. As to the present bill, all he should object to was the period of the session at which it was introduced. In answer to what had been said by the right hon. gentleman opposite he would observe, that the alteration in the appellate jurisdiction was now an open question, but at the period when the right hon. secretary thought it might be best discussed, a person would be appointed to that newly-invented situation, and his very appointment might be urged as an argument against inquiry. The report which they had before them was not, in his opinion, fit evidence upon which to legislate; for it appeared to have been drawn up for the mete purpose of making a florid display of the vast labours which the lord chancellor had now to perform. He could not help adverting to what had been said by sir S. Romilly of lord Hardwicke—"That great man" (said he) "instead of sitting till two o'clock in the day, often sat tilt two in the morning;" and extra exertion," during that extra number of hours, might be one reason why the arrear of business was so much less in
 1524
 Mr. Hume , in bringing forward his motion with respect, to the Quarantine Laws of Malta, felt it necessary to explain shortly the nature of the grievance complained of, and the remedy which the aggrieved parties were, anxious to obtain. He had mentioned this subject early in the session, and he understood that it was to be inquired into; but he had four days ago received a letter from the Committee of Merchants at Malta, in which was an extract of a letter from lord Bathurst, stating, that after a full inquiry into all the circumstances of the case, he saw no good ground for altering the Quarantine laws with respect to that island. This answer of the noble lord had put the whole commercial interest of the island into a state of alarm. Therefore it was that, even at that late period of the session, he felt it necessary to make this motion. It was well known that Europe had for a long time, and as it were by a family compact, excluded the states of Barbary and the other Turkish states and dependencies, from that free intercourse which took place between the other ports of the Mediterranean, with the express view of preserving themselves as much as possible from the plague which raged in those countries. But while this law existed in the Mediterranean, as well as in all other European ports, the island of Malta was in free pratique with those ports. In 1813 the plague reached Malta, and was not removed until 1814. After this, the ports of Genoa and Leghorn notified that the ships of Malta (if no recurrence of the evil took place) were to be allowed free pratique as before. In 1814, circumstances arose which created a want of confidence in, Genoa and Leghorn, in consequence of which Malta was placed, with respect to her ships, upon the same footing with the Barbary or any other Turkish states. What he wished was, that Malta should be placed upon the same footing with other Mediterranean ports; that there should be established at Malta a Board of Health, instead of at allowing the power to rest with Dr. Greaves, who was under the control of sir T. Maitland, and who allowed persons from any part of Turkey, to land by his directions, without undergoing the usual quarantine. This it was that caused such a jealousy in the other Mediterranean ports, and induced them to place vessels from
 1527 s. 1528 s. s. d., s. d. s. d.
 Mr. Hume , upon that undertaking, consented to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Denman  remarked the singular fact, that in the speeches which had been delivered, none of the gentlemen opposite had thought proper to say that the bill was a good one. He trusted the commission for inquiry into the administration of the law in Scotland would supersede the necessity of adding to the law the ignoble officer alluded to. He would never vote one farthing for paying such an officer, and he called upon his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) to oppose any grant for that purpose. He objected also to the appointment of that officer, because it would in crease the judicial patronage, when the mode in which that patronage was dispensed and withheld was already most disadvantageous. His opinion on this subject was at least impartial, because now he held, by the vote of a great public body, the city of London, those advantages which he would rather hold from the public than from any individual: but no man could look at the manner in which his hon. and learned friends, the members for Winchelsea and Lincoln (Mr. Brougham and Mr. J. Williams) discharged their duty to their clients, and at the talent which they uniformly displayed, without being filled with surprise that they were not placed in the first ranks of their profession. The consequence of this rank being withheld from them, produced not only great inconvenience upon the northern circuit, but was a material drawback upon the interests of the profession; and he should suffer no opportunity to escape him, in which this subject was mentioned without expressing his opinion upon the injustice which had prompted their exclusion.
 Mr. Leake  said, that all attempts made in this House with a view to remedy the delays too well known to exist in the practice of the court of Chancery, having hitherto, from various causes which it was not necessary for him at present to state, proved wholly unsuccessful, and the evil so generally, and in his opinion so justly, complained of, having, within the last four or five years, increased in a most alarming degree, and to an extent amounting in its effects, and consequences, almost to a denial of justice to the suitors of the court, he rose for the purpose of giving notice that it was his intention, as early as possible in the next session, to submit to the consideration of the House two hills; the one for the furtherance of justice in the court of Chancery; for preventing persons disqualified, or, not duly qualified, from being appointed officers, clerks, or ministers of the said court; for the better regulation of the several offices most immediately connected with the practice of the said court, particularly the Master's offices, the Register's office and the Examiner's-office; and Jog appointing a commission to settle and ascertain the fees to be received at such offices, for the future, for the purpose of creating a fund to defray so much of the salaries to paid to the officers, clerks, and ministers of the court, in lieu of the
 1512
 Mr. Peel  said, he thought he had observed a smile on the cheek of the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, when he expressed his surprise that he (Mr. Peel) had not spoken during the present discussion. In reply, he could assure the hon. and learned gentleman that there were various reasons for his silence 1st, the two speeches of his right hon. friend, and of his learned friend the attorney-general, had exhausted the subject; next, he begged to assure the hon. and learned gentleman, that as he had sat in his place till three o'clock that morning, with not more than a fifth of the members then present in attendance, he was but little disposed to enter on such a subject as that now under consideration; 3rd. he had reason to think, from an intimation from the hon. and learned gentleman himself, that he would bring the subject before Parliament early next session; and upon a question of so much importance, he wished to reserve himself till that occasion should occur for delivering his sentiments at length. 4th. as he was to have the satisfaction of concurring with the hon. and learned gentleman in the vote he should give on the present
 1525
 Mr. Calcraft  wished to know what steps it was intended to take with respect to the Silk Manufacture bill, which he understood had come down from the Lords with several amendments, after their lordships had agreed to an inquiry into which that House had refused to enter.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that as it was usual for the person who introduced a bill, after-wards to move whatever amendments it might receive in the House of Lords, he had hoped that the hon. gentleman would have allowed him to state the course which he purposed to adopt. He was free to say, that that measure had been so dealt with in the other House of parliament, and so materially altered, that it was not his intention to move the adoption of the amendments made by the Lords. The bill which was sent up do the Lords had been framed by a committee of that Houses, after an examination
 1541
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he did not, until that moment, know what course the right hon. gentleman intended to take. He had rather imagined, as two conferences were about to be held with the Lords, that the right hon. gentleman would have endeavoured to negative the amendments, and leave the result to a third conference. Those who opposed the bill in the other House had so torn and mutilated those fine principles, which the right hon. gentleman thought necessary for the benefit of a set of people who told him they were very well off and perfectly satisfied, that he did not wonder at his abandonment of the measure. Their lordships had altered the bill in such a way, that the right hon. gentleman could no longer agree to foster it. Indeed, it would have been impossible for him to concur in such amendments. Much difference of opinion seemed to exist amongst the members of administration. The other evening there was a difference on a pure matter of taste, and now there appeared to be a difference on a mere matter of trade. The fate of this bill would, he hoped, teach gentlemen not to introduce measures vitally affecting large bodies of the community, without fully considering and perfectly understanding the subject.
 Mr. Gordon  regretted most sincerely that the bill had not been carried, be cause he thought it one of the first steps towards improving the system of legislation with respect to trade. It should be recollected, that the committee of the House of Lords, with one exception, unanimously approved of this bill; and it was merely owing to the objections of a learned lord, who had such extraordinary power over that House, that the measure was not carried. He hoped, however, that the right, hon. gentleman would again bring the bill under the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  was afraid the hon. member for Bristol triumphed more at the bill in question being defeated, than he himself supposed; for he not only, rejoiced at the failure of that bill, but his argument went to denounce all measures which might be introduced with the view of establishing a general system of free trade. The present bill was framed, originally in conformity with those liberal principles which all professed to admire and to be guided by—although every man perhaps had desired some little exception to their application, in cases affecting
 Mr. Bright  was exceedingly glad that the bill was lost; not so much on account of the principle on which is was founded, but because no inquiry had been entered into. The Lords had examined the parties interested, and the result was, that they had removed those clauses which were most relied on in that House. It would now go forth to the world, that the Commons had refused to listen to the representations of the people, while the Lords had lent a willing ear to their complaints. It was a lamentable thing, that they, the representatives of the people, would not hearken to the voice of the people, on matters which so deeply, interested them. He repeated, that he was glad the bill had been defeated. The principles on which it proceeded were not, in his opinion, fitted for the complicated state of society in which they lived; and if they attempted to legislate without entertaining practical views, they would destroy the prosperity and happiness of those whom they intended to benefit.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he was extremely glad that the bill would not be allowed to pass in its amended shape. But the opportunity ought not to be suffered to go by without exposing the sort of regard that was had to the principles of justice and humanity by the parties who had altered the bill. The narrow, intolerant, and he would say ignorant, principles, on which the amendments proceeded, ought to be canvassed: for the purpose of showing that the measure as altered would be most unjust and mischievous. Individuals elsewhere had supported those amendments, on the ground, that they would secure the comfort and happiness of the class who would be affected by the bill; while it could be clearly demonstrated, that the measure, as it now stood, would create misery and distress amongst those people. It was a measure entirely on one
 1542
