 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he rose with some degree of diffidence, because he had not previously intended to present himself to the Home immediately after the hon. and learned gentleman, in consequence of the impression created by a rumour which he had heard, namely, that
 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 corpus imperii 79 pendant 80 ad hominem 81 82 parlance 83 84
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that as the hon. and learned gentleman opposite had inferred, from a part of the Speech from the Throne, that measures were recommended introductory to the admission of the Catholic claims, he was anxious not to
 85
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it was his intention at a very early period of the session, to lay before the House the view which his majesty's ministers had taken of the state of the finances, and of the course of measures which they thought it advisable to adopt for the future. He therefore thought, that under these circumstances, neither the hon. gentleman, nor the House would consider that he was wanting in proper respect, if he declined entering at present into any specific statement of the measures which it was his intention so shortly to submit, and which he trusted would
 86
 Mr. Canning  said, that the language of the Speech from the Throne was, of course, to be understood as comprehending the sentiments of ministers on that subject, and that the whole question would be open to discussion at a future opportunity.
 Mr. Bright  protested against being understood to concur in the system of policy which had been adopted with respect to our West-India Colonies.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that he rose thus early to press himself upon the attention of the House, chiefly in consequence of the observations which had fallen from the hon. member who had so eloquently seconded the motion for the address. With respect to the Speech itself, he was in the same situation in which he believed the great majority of the members of that House found themselves on the present night, when they had heard for the first time of the topics of the speech, save what they had gleaned by hearsay in the morning, through the various channels of communication open to them; partly, indeed, through the English newspapers, partly, also, through the foreign; for through the one, as through the other, they had anticipations of, he believed, equal accuracy. He should therefore wish, considering the great importance of the occasion, the greater importance of the crisis, and the magnitude of the topics which such a speech must necessarily embrace—he could wish, he said, on this occasion, and now more than on any other within his memory, to be allowed to recur to the good old established practice of consideration before they discussed the Speech from the Throne, and not to be driven prematurely, and in a state of comparative ignorance, to do that which, in whatever way it could be view-
 54 55 56 only 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 de jure 68 69 70
 Mr. James Daly  rose to second the Address. He said, that although he considered himself inadequate to handle the
 48 49 50 51 52 53
 Mr. Hume  expressed his regret at hearing the observations which had fallen from the right hon. Secretary opposite, with respect to that unfortunate country, Ireland. He had, in effect, declared, that the same ruinous system of policy which had so long distracted, and divided Ireland, was still to be persisted in. This was a lamentable declaration, on the part of ministers, in whom that House was called upon to place is confidence. He complained that there was no distinct statement in the Speech from the Throne as to what taxes were to be taken off, and what amount of relief was to be afforded to the country. The Speech was as lame in its composition, as it was possible for any public document to be. They were told, that arrangements had been made for that purpose, but there was no mention of any thing to lead them to conjecture what class would have the immediate advantage of the intended relief. The fears of the country ought to be instantly assuaged by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, by stating what taxes would be taken off. Not a moment should be lost in giving the House and the country proper satisfaction upon this part of the Speech. His object in rising was merely to protest against its being understood, that because they were silent, they felt no disapprobation whatever.
 Mr. Rowland Hill  rose to move an ad-
 46 47
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that with respect to that most important part of the Speech from the Throne which related to foreign affairs, he rose to protest against it being supposed that he, as an independent member of parliament, had concurred in the least degree in the Address. If he could have agreed to that address, he would have considered that he had disgraced himself—he would consider himself unworthy the constituents he had the
 87 88 89 90
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that he should feel happy to give to the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, or to any member of that House, every information in his power to give, which he could with safety disclose. He should confine himself simply to the questions put by the hon. member: and, first, with respect to the independence of South America, the hon. gentleman complained, that he had not last night entered more minutely into details; and here he must say, that the hon. gentleman seemed to have confounded a statement of principles with a statement of facts. The part of his speech to which the hon. gentleman alluded, had been in reply to that part of the speech of the hon. and learned member which related to South America. What he had said last night respecting the relative international situation of a mother country and her colonies was this—that in principle, a mother country had a right, if she thought she had the power, to endeavour to recover possession of any colonies, which had, by any effort of their own, thrown off her dominion; and that no other country in amity with her, would, upon the naked principle, be justified in intercepting her efforts, or interfering, in the first instance, to endeavour to prevent
 91 bonâ fide, 92 93
 Mr. Western  expressed his surprise at the declaration of the right hon. gentleman, that, if he were asked, whether the French army ought to evacuate Spain tomorrow, his answer would be no. Such a declaration opened the door to other powers to prolong the continuance of a daring aggression upon the rights of an independent state, according to their notions of the indefinite duration of motives of humanity. It was his intention, last evening, to have moved an amendment to the address, had not his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) anticipated what he had to say, in the able and eloquent speech which he had made on the occasion. He was decidedly opposed to the policy of the present cabinet respecting our foreign relations, founded as it was upon a determination to preserve peace at all events. He appreciated the value of peace as much as any man could do; but still he could not go the length of the right hon. secretary, in looking calmly upon aggressions like that of France against Spain, and in considering the infringement of the right of an independent nation to regulate its own concerns, as a matter of little importance to the interest and security of the British empire. Such an interference with the internal policy of an independent state, as it had been our misfortune recently to witness, would have called forth the strong reprobation and decided opposition of our sturdy ancestors; and he, for one could see no reason why we should abandon the heroic policy which they had bravely pursued at every hazard, in various periods of our history. The principles which the Holy Alliance had avowed on different occasions, and particularly in the state papers which they had sent forth from Laybach, had opened the eyes of every man in the country, except his majesty's ministers, to the infamous nature of their designs. It would be in the recollection of the House, that when the
 94
 Colonel Palmer  said, that he rose under the strongest feelings of shame and indignation, to protest against the conduct of his majesty's government: he had not opposed the address against the general sense of the House, but being convinced that not only Europe, but the world at large, had never yet been reduced to such a state of actual and prospective misery as at the present moment, and that such state was to be imputed solely to the conduct of the British government, he considered it to be a duty to his country, as a member of that House, to declare his opinion upon the subject. If it were true, as the ministers had told them, both in
 95 96 97 98
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, he should not have addressed the House on the present occasion, had it not been for the allusion which had been made by the hon. colonel to an expression which he had used in the course of the preceding session. He was well aware of the observation he had then made, when speaking of the situation of the landed interest. He certainly had said, that he considered it the wisest course if the country were in danger, to look that danger in the face, and to meet it resolutely and manfully. He had felt as strongly as any person in the House or out of it could feel, the severe distress that pressed on the landed interest; and he was happy to find, that a great change for the better had taken place in the situation of that important class of society. He entirely approved of what was said in the Speech from the throne on that subject. It was pleasing to him to observe that a considerable amendment had taken place in the
 100
 Mr. Littleton  said, that he was requested by his hon. friend, the member for Stafford (Mr. Chetwynd), to move for certain papers which were intended to show what had been the operation of the Vagrant act, which had been passed last session. That act had been the object of much clamour, which arose from the said act having been misunderstood. By obtaining the passing of that act, his hon. friend had saved the counties of England and Wales the sum of 100,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that be merely rose for the purpose of preventing a misconception from prevailing with the public, in consequence of what had fallen that evening from the right hon. secretary. He had himself received information from the Ionian Islands, fully corroborating that which had just been stated to the House by the hon. member for Westminster. A letter, which he had received from Ithaca, led him to believe, that the statement of the right hon. secretary was far from cor-
 99
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he could not let this opportunity pass without expressing his most anxious hope and wish, that no negotiation for the termination of the differences between Russia and the Porte might be successful, which did not leave the Greeks in a better situation than that in which it found them. He regretted that the situation of the right hon. secretary did not permit him to do that which he was sure would have been consistent with his inclination; namely, to give an assurance to the House, that this country would not be a party to any arrangement which did not protect the Greeks from the barbarous revenue of one power, and the insatiable ambition of the other.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he was always loth to appear to withhold information; but the house would be aware that there might be circumstances under which disclosure could only tend to do mischief. He relied upon the candour of the right hon. baronet in giving credit to him (Mr. G.) for sincerity, when he stated his belief, that the papers in question were likely to revive disputes, without forwarding the object which the right hon. baronet had in view. The right hon. baronet wished to repeal the statute of the 9th William III., which applied to burials in the church yards attached to decayed monasteries. He said nothing upon the main question, whether the statute ought to be repealed, or whether it ought not; but it was an object which could no way be aided by the production of the papers in the possession of the lord lieutenant; while their publication would certainly revive differences which were now in a way to be forgotten.
 Sir John Newport , since the matter was referred to his candour, thought it due to public justice, and to the people of Ireland, that the papers should be produced. If there had been imprudences committed, let them he upon those who Ought to bear them, namely, that part of the episcopal and ecclesiastical body in Ireland, which had attempted to strip the people of the right of burial according to the forms of their religion. His object was not that which the right hon. secretary had stated. He wished certainly to repeal the statute, the 9th William III.; but he wished also to secure the right of burial, generally, according to the forms of their religion, to the Catholics and Dissenters from the Established Church of Ireland. When it was considered, that this question was of all others the most calculated to excite public feeling, and that six-tenths of the Irish population
 104
 Mr. Grattan  thought it would be better to postpone the question, and give a regular notice. The gentlemen on his side the house were taken by surprise, not having conceived that the papers would be refused. The question was one, as he viewed it, of the highest importance to Ireland. If it was not soon put at rest, there would be no burial without an affray.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that of all the frightful questions which had been mooted in Ireland, this was decidedly the most terrific. He so far went along with the right hon. Secretary for Ireland, that if he thought the question likely to be settled satisfactorily, he would not call for the production of papers which contained an inflamed view, perhaps, of past disputes; but then, so far from seeing any disposition on the part of government to take measures of itself for putting the difference at rest, he understood the right hon. Secretary to suggest, that what had passed had set it at rest already.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that he was misunderstood by the hon. and learned gentleman. He had spoken only of particular differences as in a way to be set at rest; not of the general question.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the right hon. gentleman still stated no intention on the part of government to take measures. Under such circumstances, the house was bound to proceed itself, and consequently to call for the fullest information. The vital importance of the question was admitted. There were doubts upon it in every way: doubts as to the law; doubts as to the practice. A specific course by parliament was necessary; and he therefore should support the motion for the production of documents.
 Mr. Peel  thought it would be well to separate the general question, of burial, from the immediate question before the house, namely, the production of papers. Upon the general question he should reserve his opinion; but he thought that the papers ought not to be produced.
 Mr. Calcraft  supported the motion. The documents in question were not private; and the only difference was, whether members should obtain them personally, or whether they should come regularly before the House.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he would give the hon. member the answer which he required. The hon. member had asked whether he (Mr. C.) did not think that he had acted illegally and unconstitutionally in regard to the convention, a copy of which had been laid upon the table. The answer was "decidedly not." If the hon. member thought otherwise he was of course at liberty to bring the subject before the House; but then he hoped that the hon. member would give notice of his
 102
 Mr. Canning  replied, that he did not intend to lay the papers alluded to upon the table, and that his vote, if they were moved for, must depend upon the case which the noble lord might make out for their production.
 Mr. Canning  replied, that he would submit a motion on the subject to which the hon. member alluded, during the present session, and at no distant period. In the mean time, he might perhaps remove the hon. gentleman's uneasiness on one particular point, by telling him that he had already reduced the consular salaries.
 Lord Nugent  then gave notice, that on Thursday next he would submit a motion on the conduct of ministers with respect
 103
 Lord Nugent  observed, that since the House had, I by agreeing to the address to his majesty, I sanctioned the policy which government had adopted with regard to Spain, he thought they ought to be put in possession of the means of judging how far that policy had been fairly carried into effect. For that purpose, he considered that the production of some papers was necessary; namely, copies of all the correspondence which had taken place between this government and sir William A'Court during the period intervening between the entrance of the French troops into Spain, and the surrender of Cadiz; and also copies of all communications made by the Spanish Government to sir William A'Court, during the same period, with his answers. He wished to know whether the right hon. secretary intended to lay those papers before the House, or whether he would consent to their production.
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was not so much the amount of the salaries, as the manner in which they were paid, that he objected to. He disliked the system of consular charges upon goods imported.
 Mr. Hume  asked the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs, when he intended to effect his long promised reform, respecting British Consuls abroad?
 Mr. James  begged to direct the attention of the right hon. secretary, for a few moments, to the subject of the Austrian Loan. When the right hon. gentlemen laid on the table a copy of a convention entered into between the Emperor of Austria and his Britannic Majesty, respecting the settlement of the Austrian Loan, he fully expected that it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman merely to submit that document to the House for its sanction. But he had since ascertained, to his great surprise, that the agreement had actually been ratified by both the contracting parties. He wished the right hon. gentleman to answer this question—whether he did not think that he had acted illegally and unconstitutionally, in advising his majesty to agree to that convention without consulting the House? [A laugh]. That might, perhaps, appear to be a very radical view of the case; but he felt it his duty to state, that he conceived the right hon. secretary to have assumed a power which even Mr. Pitt, in the plenitude of his authority, had never dared to assume.
 Mr. James  said, that he was not compelled to give a notice, and as it was not likely that any business would come before the House that evening, he thought the matter might as well be discussed at that time. He repeated that he considered the conduct of the right hon. secretary illegal. If ministers had the right to give up the claim of the people of England to a large sum of money justly due to them, without consulting the House of Commons, then,  pari ratione,
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that the hon. member for Aberdeen had adverted to a great many subjects, the importance of which he did not mean to undervalue; but he was sorry, on account of their importance, that he should have introduced them when presenting a petition, without giving a previous intimation to those who might have afforded some explanation, if the facts had been clearly stated to them. The communication of the hon. gentleman to him (Mr. Peel) had rather misled him than otherwise. He certainly had placed the petition in his hands, and had stated that he was going to present it; but he did not say that he intended to comment on the conduct of the magistrates, or to introduce any observations with reference to the home department. This individual had never sent any petition, praying for a remission of his sen-
 113 s. s. 114 sine quá non, 115 primá facie 116 117
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  said, if the amend-
 122
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the information might be obtained, and there was no objection to giving it; but he decidedly objected to establishing a precedent for putting questions to individuals as to the religion they professed.
 Sir F. Burdett  saw a great diversity in the objections of the gentlemen on the other side, and no force whatever in any of their objections. The right hon. secretary seemed to fear the establishment of a species of inquisition, which was to demand men's opinions and professions, calling them forth against their will; but, in fact, the inquiry now contemplated would be gratifying to every person concerned in it.
 Mr. Littleton  rose to caution the House against attributing to his hon. friend, the member for Stafford (Mr. Chetwynd), who had framed the vagrant act, any harshness which the magistrates had shown in carrying it into execution. The object of his hon. friend had been to mitigate the severity of the former vagrant act; and he was sure that any gentleman who would turn his attention to the subject, would see that it was considerably mitigated. Formerly, the magistrates had the power of sentencing to transportation for seven years; at present, they could not sentence to more than two years' imprisonment. Formerly, whipping could be inflicted by the order of one magistrate; now, it could not be inflicted, except by an order of a bench of magistrates at the quarter sessions. He then proceeded to defend the principle of the vagrant act, and to request hon. gentlemen to withhold their attacks upon it until his hon. friend, the member for Stafford, who was now absent from indisposition, was present to answer them.
 Mr. Dawson  declared his intention of not replying at present to the arguments which the hon. member had urged against the vagrant act. That act would expire in the course of the year, and on the motion to renew it, if any such were made, its merits and demerits would be fairly taken into consideration. He had inquired into the circumstances of this case, and he could assure the House that the petitioner had no hardship to complain of. It appeared that he was going to his home at a very late hour in the night, when he met with the woman in question, who was well known as a common prostitute. At the time the watchman caught them, they were guilty of as open an exposure of their persons as could possibly be imagined. The watchman deposed to the facts:
 112
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the motion, because no person who had heard the sentiments uttered by him when the affairs of Ireland were under discussion last session, could doubt that he felt very deeply the importance of the residence of the clergy in Ireland, and that he was most anxious for the enforcement of that system. He had pledged himself, in a former session, to do every thing in his power, and the lord lieutenant had given him every assistance to enforce the residence of the clergy. It would be his duty, in a few days, to give notice to the House that he would introduce a bill, containing such provisions as he hoped would prove completely effectual for that purpose.
 Mr. Goulburn  doubted whether such returns could be produced under the present imperfect admeasurement of districts in Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  asked how government should know whether persons were Roman Catholics or otherwise, unless in those cases where the law had imposed an oath?
 Mr. Croker  was not sure that the paper called for might not be obtainable; but he knew that the state of the law as to religious profession in Ireland would throw serious difficulties in the way of other objects contemplated by the noble lord opposite. The act of 1793 was the only act which gave the means of ascer-
 123
 Mr. Croker  did not know how a return of this kind could be made, without applying to each individual clergyman. If the clergyman resided long enough to satisfy the general law, he must be returned as a resident. The bishop could only take notice of those clergymen who did not comply with the law.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the clergymen might make the returns. There were only 1,280 parishes, and one post might carry out all the blank returns.
 Mr. Hume  defended his proposed amendment, and denied that he was casting any stigma on the bishops of Ireland. As to the delicacy of calling for such an account, he thought the House ought to observe little or no delicacy in calling for returns.
 Mr. Hume  suggested the necessity of making some alteration in this motion. If carried as it was now worded, a clergyman might be returned as resident who remained only one month on his living, although he was absent during the other eleven. He wished the return to be made under four distinctive classes, specifying those incumbents who had been resident for 3, 6, 9, or 12 months.
 Mr. Hume , in rising to move that the petition be laid on the table and printed, wished to make a few observations on
 118
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had a
 107 108 109 l., l. 110 111
 Mr. Hume  said, that nothing was more easy than to put the question to each individual.
 Mr. Peel  had never meant to say, that the petitioner's was an accidental exposure. There were some exposures which might be accidental: but, he thought, assuming the guilt of the petitioner—[Mr. Hume—"Assuming the guilt!"]—Yes, the hon. gentleman had assumed the petitioner's innocence on his own allegation. Now, assuming his guilt, he could not think he had been hardly dealt with.
 Sir J. Newport  believed there was not a bishop in Ireland who could not tell pretty nearly what land he let to his tenants. The information, he thought, might be obtained without the smallest difficulty.
 Lord Althorp  believed the return would be short. He thought no Roman Catholics had been appointed; but he saw no difficulty in making it. A man's religion, in Ireland, was as much a matter of notoriety as his profession.
 Lord Althorp  said, that perhaps some apology would be required of him, for calling the notice of parliament to a portion of the empire with which he had no connexion whatever. But he thought he had an opportunity of doing some good, by seriously applying himself to the consideration of the state of Ireland; and he felt that it was as much the business and the duty of English as of Irish members of parliament to use their utmost exertions for the benefit of the people of that country. He hoped, therefore, he should not be supposed to have travelled out of his line, in undertaking the introduction of this subject [Hear!]. It was his intention at a later period of the session, to submit a motion on the state of Ireland generally, and therefore he now called for certain papers which were intimately connected with that subject. The chief points on which he required information were—the amount of the revenue of Ireland—the situation of the church, as to the number of resident clergymen—and the mode in which the laws, allowing Roman Catholics to hold certain offices, had been executed, together with a specification of the offices which they were so entitled to fill. As to the revenue of Ireland, it might be said, that information on that head could be procured from the papers now before the House. But, every one must know, that unless it were brought together in a smaller compass for general observation, it would not be attended with that good effect which ought to be derived from it. If, therefore, there was no objection, he would move for "a return of the gross and nett amount of the revenue of customs and excise in Ireland, for two years, ending 5th Jan. 1824; distinguishing the different articles on which it was charged." He would next move for "a return of the amount of money levied by grand jury presentments, for the same period." To that he conceived there could be no objection, as those presentments formed a part of the charge of Ireland, and it was desirable that its extent should be known. The next point on which he would call for information respected the residence of the clergy. He conceived it to be impossible for any man to look to the state of Ireland, and not feel the necessity of having a resident clergy. If, as they must all be convinced, it was of great importance to have a good resident clergy in
 120 121
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he differed at all points from the hon. gentleman as to the duty of the Bank of England. It seemed to him, that in the present state of the country, it was the imperious duty of the House of Commons, for the sake of the public interest, from time to time to ascertain the amount of Bank notes in circulation. In moving for the paper now alluded to, he had been influenced by no feeling of hostility towards the Bank, but by a strong sense of public duty. It seemed as if the hon. gentleman had totally forgotten the millions of money with which the public entrusted the Bank of England, and for the satisfaction and security of the public, it was absolutely necessary to know how the Bank conducted its business, and whether it was or was not in a state of solvency. If, before 1797, the House had been better informed upon the subject to which the motion referred, the catastrophe which had then happened, would never have occurred. It was very important that this point should be brought to issue, and for this purpose he would move on Tuesday next, for the accounts he had annually applied for, respecting the issue of notes by the Bank of England.
 Mr. Western  rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill to make an alteration in the law respecting the Qualification of Jurors. The hon member
 125 l., l., l. l. l. l. l. 126
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he did not intend to oppose the introduction of the bill of the hon. gentleman; in fact, in many parts of it he concurred; at least he thought the whole subject well worthy of serious consideration. He thought at the same time, with his hon. friend who had just spoken, that no alteration should be made in the system without much consideration; though some of the reasons urged by his hon. friend against an alteration, tended to bring him (Mr. Peel) to a directly contrary conclusion. If his hon. friend contended, and as no one would doubt, that the trial by jury was an important instrument for a diffusion of the knowledge of the law throughout all parts of the community, this was surely a reason for extending the privilege of serving on juries beyond the class to which it was now confined. The hon. mover had proposed to admit, as a qualification for serving on juries, the possession of personal property to a certain extent; and he had observed, that this principle was admitted already in corporate towns. But, he doubted in the first place, whether the hon. gentleman did not propose at first to admit too large a class, and whether the possession of a particular amount of personal property would not be found a very uncertain and embarrassing rule to go by. The hon. gentleman proposed, that the possession of 100 l. 130 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Martin , of Galway, rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to extend to other animals the privilege and protection which the House, under a bill which he had brought in, had afforded to cattle. To this bill he did not apprehend much objection, as it merely would extend the principle of the bill for preventing cruelty to cattle, to dogs and cats, and monkies, and other animals. [A member asked Mr. Martin whether he included rats!] No, he did not mean to include rats. Gentlemen must have read in the public papers many horrible instances of cruelty perpetrated upon animals with impunity; and one in particular, of an unfortunate dog that went into a shop, and was scalded with a kettle of boiling water, and sent out to die in the streets. In other instances, dogs had been rubbed with oil of vitriol, and sent out to perish in excruciating torments. Without pretending to more sen-
 131 l.
 Mr. Martin  said, that the second bill which he should move for leave to bring in, would require little detail. He would move for "leave to bring in a bill to prevent Bear-baiting and other cruel practices." There was some hesitation in putting the question, as Mr. Martin had not provided a seconder. Mr. Martin expressed a hope that some gentleman would second it. Some one having seconded it, and the question being put,
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he was as ready as any one to do justice to the motives of his hon. friend, and he did not object to the first of the bills that had been proposed to amend the law for the protection of cattle from wanton cruelty; but the bill which it was the purpose of the present motion to introduce, was an extension so important, that he was surprised his hon. friend did not think proper to enter into the details by which he might conceive it was called for. The hon. gentleman proposed to prohibit certain cruel sports. Now, if the hon. gentleman laid down the general principle, that no pain should be inflicted on animals, beyond such as was necessary in putting them to death for the support of man, his legislation would be consistent; but he was certainly not fair in selecting partial
 132 133
 Mr. Martin  said, he should defend those gentlemen who amused themselves with shooting, hunting, and fishing, against being confounded with the miserable wretches who pursued the brutal sports which he proposed to prohibit. He wished to stop cruelty as far as he was able: he wished to prohibit those cruelties which public opinion would follow him in saying ought to be prohibited. It was the opinion of all well thinking people out of these walls (and he was happy to say, that there were out of the House, millions of well-thinking people in this country), that cruel sports ought to be prohibited. There was not a part of the kingdom that he was not in correspondence with, and he knew that to be the general opinion. There was no inconsistency in not prohibiting field-sports and in putting down the gross and atrocious cruelties which depraved the morals of the people. Bull-baiting was already prevented. He begged to call to the recollection of the right hon. gentleman a law now existing, which prevented every one of these sports, or rather of these deliberate acts of cruelty, in a particular part of the metropolis. He alluded to the Mary-la-bonne act, which made it illegal to bait a bull, or to hold a bear fight, monkey fight, or dog fight in the parish of Marylabonne. He wished to know whether his right hon. friend meant to repeal that act; and, if he did not mean to repeal that clause in the Marylabonne act, which made it illegal for bears, dogs, and monkeys to fight and massacre each other, he saw no reason why those disgraceful sports ought not to be abolished in every other part of the kingdom. Hunting and shooting, in his opinion, were amusements of a totally different character. Many gentlemen who indulged in those recreations had been the foremost to support his bill for preventing cruelty to animals. A gentleman of his acquaintance, remarkable for the strength of his nerves, had, nevertheless, experienced nausea at the stomach, upon seeing a bull which had been baited. The upper lip was torn, and part of the tongue hung in shreds down the wretched animal's cheek. Honourable gentlemen ought really to attend these sports themselves, before they decided that a bill of this kind ought not
 134
 Captain Maberly  said, it was necessary for the House to consider what a situation, they might be placed in by the bill which the hon. mover proposed to introduce, and that which the home secretary of state had also given notice of. The right hon. secretary proposed to consolidate all the laws relating to juries while the hon. gentleman was bringing in a bill to amend a particular disposition of those laws. Let them suppose the hon. gentleman's bill to have passed into a law, and the bill of the right hon. secretary introduced. Now, either the bill of the right hon. secretary would contain the provisions of the hon. gentleman's bill, or it would not. If it contained them, there would be two bills with the same enactments: if not, there would be all the laws respecting juries
 128
 Mr. Western  undertook that no inconvenience, like that which had been anticipated by his hon. friend, should arise from the introduction and progress of his bill.
 Mr. Martin  acquiesced in the suggestion of the hon. gentleman, and consented to withdraw his motion.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  had no objection to the motion of the hon. gentleman, and he did not think it necessary, on the present occasion, to trouble the House with any observations on the general question of the policy of legacy duties. The House would naturally see that this was a subject of very considerable importance, affecting, as it did, a revenue of not less than a million per annum. With respect, however, to the particular point to which the hon. member had adverted, namely, the grievance to which individuals were exposed in consequence of being called upon to pay arrears of legacy duty, which had not been claimed for many years, he was ready to admit that some strong cases of hardship had been brought under his notice. These cases had arisen, not from any disposition in the parties to evade the payment of the legacy duties, but from the imperfect provisions of the law at its first enactment, and the imperfect regulations under which the law had been acted upon, so that that notice had not been given which every public body, whose duty it was to collect taxes, was bound to give. In the year 1812, many alterations and improvements in the mode of collecting the legacy duties had been adopted, the result of which was, that every person now received a fair and immediate notice of the amount of duty he had to pay. It was perfectly true that the officers, acting under the
 137
 Mr. Goulburn  thought, that without
 138
 Mr. Goulburn , would not pledge himself to commence a prosecution in a case of which he knew nothing, but he would make inquiries into it, and what the justice of the affair required should be done.
 Mr. Grattan  expressed himself satisfied, and withdrew his motion.
 Mr. Grattan  was only desirous to excite a proper degree of attention to this subject, and if the right hon. gentleman would promise to take the case under his own care, and adopt such proceedings as might be necessary, he would gladly leave it in his hands, and withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Grattan  rose, to move for copies of the proceedings before a coroner's jury on an inquest held on the body of one M'Can. It appeared from the information which he had received, that the unfortunate sufferer was an agent employed in the collection of rents, in the barony of Strathbane. He was returning to his home, when he entered a public-house, where he met several of the tenants from whom he was to receive rent. Two police-officers came afterwards into the same house, and caused a riot and affray, in the course of which the agent was killed. The hon. gentleman said his information went on to state, that an inquest had been held on the body, at which two surgeons attended, who swore that the death of the deceased was occasioned by an inflammation of the bowels; and that upon this evidence the jury acquitted the police-officer, notwithstanding the dying declaration of the victim, who said that be had been killed by the police-man. The hon. gentleman did not know whether the police-man was still at large, or whether any proceedings had been taken against him. He was, however, induced to make the present motion, in the hope of calling the attention of the magistrates to the conduct of this description of men, who, in the county where this transaction occurred, were notorious for the commission of violent and illegal acts. They were often taken up, and sometimes removed; but never, that he had been able to learn, discharged. The consequence was, that the public had no confidence in the administration of justice, as regarded them; and it was with a view to remedy the existing abuses, by the adoption of some ulterior measures, that he now moved "for copies of the proceedings on the coroner's inquest held on the body of Michael M'Can, at Vicarstown in the Queen's County."
 Mr. Lockhart  would not oppose the introduction of the bill: but it was a measure which required great deliberation, and it was important that the House should hear the observations of all the members upon it. The remarks of an hon. member upon the general composition of juries were such, that he could not yield his entire concurrence to them. He could not agree that the old principle of juries was founded in prejudice, or that it was merely an error of the feudal system, which confined the selection of special juries to the class of freeholders. He rather thought that their ancestors had acted from a just and proper sense of the subject. Experience had shown, that the view which had been taken of the subject in ancient times was a sound one, and perhaps the best which could be devised, to protect people from the encroachments of despotism; to secure the rights of subjects against the power and influence of the Crown, and the interests of their property from injustice one among another. The epithet prejudice could only be ascribed fairly to that which had produced evidently bad consequences; whereas that system had proved to be efficient above all others, in opposing the intellect and public virtue of the community to the tyranny of rulers; and it had secured to us the only free constitution, worthy of the name, which existed in the world. He did not feel inclined to oppose the proposition of the hon. gentleman, because it went to place the system of juries in a position more fairly proportioned to the property and intelligence of the people. All he feared was, that the class by which that most invaluable blessing had been maintained hitherto might be too far overlooked. He admitted that they might not equal in expertness and ingenuity some of the enlightened classes which the kingdom contained. Their understanding was of a peculiar kind: there was in it a sort of  vis inertiæ, 129
 Mr. Lockhart  thought he could relieve the hon. gentleman from the necessity of pressing the House to any decision on the subject. The hon. gentleman had already obtained leave to bring in a bill to amend his act for preventing cruelty to cattle, by extending protection to other animals. Now, as he himself admitted, that bull-baiting was illegal by the operation of his own measure, it was evident that if his amendment were carried, the bears to which the hon. gentleman wished to extend protection, would be included in the words "other animals." It would be wholly unnecessary, therefore, to protect bears by a specific enactment.
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for several returns, with a view of bringing the subject of the Legacy Duties under the consideration of the House at a future period. The right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer had, he said, shewn an anxiety to place commercial regulations on a footing of sounder policy than had been hitherto acquiesced in, and he trusted that he would not deem the subject to which he now adverted unworthy of his attention. Legacy taxes had been admitted by all who had written on the subject, to be taxes on the capital of the country, and they ought, therefore, to be repealed at as early a period as possible. The extent to which these taxes were levied, was not perhaps generally known. He had moved last year for returns of the amount of nett revenue derived from probates and administrations of wills, and the House would perhaps be surprised to learn that from the year 1797 to the year 1806, no less a sum than 22,124,000 l. 135 l., l. 136
 Mr. Leycester  seconded the motion of his hon. friend with much cordiality. The principle upon which the qualification of jurors had been fixed might be classed among the antiquated prejudices of the feudal system, and was totally at variance with the present advanced state of civilization; because it went to exclude a large body of men, who were not only well qualified by education, station, and intellect, but were also willing to take their share in the burthensome duties of that service. Another strong recommendation of this measure was, the prospect it would afford of speedily establishing a third assize. This measure would render the duties of juries in the aggregate less onerous with a third assize, than before they had been with only two. It would remove the only obstacle which at present impeded the establishment of a third assize. He did not anticipate any difficulty upon this last point on account of the judges; for, without adding any expense in the way of salary, or a single member to the number of the judges, it was only to make a more economical use of their judicial means—it was only to dispose with more prudence of their
 127
 Mr. Manning  repeated, that, as a matter of courtesy, the directors had no objection to furnish hon. gentlemen with such information as they might need for any parliamentary purpose.
 Mr. Manning  regretted, that he had not been present yesterday, when an hon. member had moved for a return of the amount of Bank notes and Bank post bills in circulation. He had not the slightest wish to conceal any thing on the subject of the motion of the hon. member; but, after the Bank Restriction act had expired, he was not aware that the House had any right to call upon that establishment for any such returns. It had been provided by the bill of 1797, that certain ac-
 124
 Sir F.
 139  said, that seeing the secretary for the home department in his place, he would present a petition with which he had been entrusted by Mr. Martin Stapylton, a magistrate in the North Riding of Yorkshire. The right hon. gentleman had probably seen and heard something of disputes regarding the tread-mill among the magistracy at Northallerton, the majority of whom had been in the habit of sending persons before trial to this very degrading and laborious employment. An act had been passed during the last session upon this subject, and it had been accompanied by a general explanation, that prisoners committed for trial were not fit objects of such a punishment. Nevertheless, the individuals in question had persevered in the former practice, which appeared to the petitioner both illegal and oppressive. He therefore prayed the interposition of parliament: and in the opinion of the hon. baronet, it was loudly called for, to put a stop to a proceeding unwarranted by the spirit of the law of the land, as it inflicted punishment before a jury had decided that any guilt existed. He trusted that some effectual steps would be taken without delay to correct the misinterpretation that prevailed in some quarters, and which was daily leading to acts of the grossest injustice. He hoped that some effective measures would be adopted, either to amend the law, if a mistake prevailed upon the subject, or to correct the practice if it were illegally persevered in. It ought not for a moment to be suffered to exist after this exposure of its oppression and injustice.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the subject had been recently before the court of King's Bench, and it would be premature to discuss it at present, more particularly as the hon. member for Shrewsbury had given notice of a specific motion upon the subject. He readily agreed, that if the application of the tread-mill before trial were not illegal, it was at all events decidedly impolitic. The chief benefit of its discipline was, that it inflicted a stigma, and a disgrace, a moral punishment, which would be lost if it were used before trial. Upon a principle of justice therefore as well as of expediency, he thought the punishment of the tread-mill ought not to be inflicted before trial.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he could not conceive the slightest doubt upon the illegality of the punishment before trial. It was a compulsory punishment upon men
 140
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that the magistrates at Northallerton felt a strong conviction that they were acting legally in the course they had pursued. The Court of King's-bench had satisfied them that they were right ["No, no"]. Such appeared to him to be the result of the decision of the judges. The hon. member, however, agreed in the inexpediency of such committals, and should be happy to see the matter finally settled by a distinct enactment.
 Mr. Hume  said, he was well aware that the subject he was about to bring forward was one of the greatest importance, and attended, perhaps, with more difficulties than any he had hitherto ventured to touch. His object was no less than to submit to the House the propriety of appointing a committee to take into consideration the various laws which intimately concerned, in fact, the major part of the population of the empire. Two years ago, after presenting a petition signed by 15,000 persons, in London only, besides several other petitions from the country, he had given notice, that he should bring forward this question in the session that had last expired. He had found, however, that the subject had already been partially taken up by others, and that it was surrounded with more formidable difficulties than he had at first anticipated. At the end of last session he had given notice that he would, early in the present, fulfil his undertaking; and he had done so by the advice, and in hopes of the assistance, of a distinguished individual, whose recent loss the kingdom had to deplore [hear, hear!]. The late Mr. Ricardo was so well acquainted with every branch of the science of political economy, formerly, and until he had thrown light upon it, so ill understood, that his aid on such a question would have been of the utmost value. When he remembered the manner in which his lamented friend had always delivered his opinions, and the candour of moderation he invariably displayed towards his opponents, he might boldly assert, that there was not a member on any side of the House, who would for a moment deny the extent of the loss the country had thus sustained [hear, hear! from all parts of the House]. The general interest of the community wan the single object he ever had in view, and through good report and bad report, he had pursued it with the meekest spirit of humility, and the most liberal spirit of inquiry. With regard to the principles which Mr. Ricardo was so capable of expounding, now that time had worn away many of the ruder prejudices against them,
 142 143 144 145 146 147
 Mr. Huskisson  rose, not for the purpose of opposing, but of concurring in the present motion. He wished, however, to have it distinctly understood, that he held himself at liberty, on every part of this subject, to form his opinion upon the evidence which might hereafter be submitted to the committee. He acknowledged that, in much of the general reasoning of the hon. member for Aberdeen, he fully concurred. On the first head of the proposed inquiry which related to the granting permission to arti-
 148 onus 149 150 151
 Mr. James  contended, that it was not correct, to state that the Court of King's-
 141
 Mr. Peel  said, that between him and the hon. baronet there was no material difference of opinion. Whatever, he repeated, might be the strict law, upon which he was not prepared or qualified to decide, he had not a moment's doubt as to the inexpediency of placing persons on the tread-mill before they had been found guilty of any crime.
 Mr. Robertson  expressed his decided disapprobation of the whole system of reciprocity of duties. He insisted that the course ministers were pursuing would be the ruin of the shipping interest, and especially called the attention of the House to the opinions delivered by the late Mr.
 155
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion. He should be sorry to oppose any motion which it was alleged was likely to afford relief to the people of Ireland; but at the same time, he did not mean to pledge himself to give his support to the measure in its future stages, or, on the other hand, to state that he should give it his opposition. But it was worth the consideration of those who introduced the measure, to examine whether there were any circumstances that rendered the extension of the measure necessary to Ireland and not to this country; and they should also consider whether in giving what appeared an advantage to the suffering tenant, by depriving the landlord of the means of recovering the sum which was due to him, they did not impose a greater evil upon the tenant himself, by destroying that credit which the landlord might otherwise have been disposed to give him. It was perfectly true, that the process of
 157
 Mr. Grattan  said, the measure proposed by the noble lord would not take away from the landlord the power of recovering his rent; it only altered the time. What the noble lord had proposed, was perfectly fair; namely, that a keeper might be retained on the crop whilst it was growing. In the part of Ireland to which he belonged, and where there were resident gentlemen, there was no disposition to distrain the growing crops; so that whatever it might be in other parts of Ireland, the neighbourhood to which he belonged was exempt from the evil.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had not expected that on this occasion the principle of the bill of last year would be disputed; and, though quite prepared to justify all that had been done, he did not think that he was now called upon to do so. What the resolutions proposed to do was, in fact, in favour of the system which the hon. member so strenuously advocated.
 Mr. Huskisson  adverted to the object of the Bill of last session on this subject, enabling the king in council to place the shipping of a foreign state on the same footing as the shipping of Great Britain, provided in the ports of that foreign state British shipping experienced similar advantages. His majesty had been also empowered by the same statute to impose countervailing duties in case any foreign state imposed duties upon any goods or shipping of this country arriving in the ports of that foreign state. It had been found necessary to exercise this last power with regard to the United States. Notwithstanding the act of 1822 had settled the permanent intercourse between our West India Islands and the United States, it appeared that the latter had continued the alien duty on the tonnage of the vessels as well as on the cargo, and it became requisite, therefore, for our own protection, to impose countervailing duties to the extent of those enforced in America. An order in council had accordingly been issued, establishing a duty equal to 94 cents per ton upon the ship, and of 60 cents per ton upon the cargo. This step had certainly been taken by the British government with regret and reluctance, for it was of course very desirous that the duty should be abated in both countries. He was happy to say, however, that the difference was at this time a matter of negotiation between the two countries, and that it had been entered into on both sides in an amicable spirit, with a view merely to secure mutual interests. The step taken by the king in council had not been the result of, nor intended to produce, ill-will in the United States. It had been called for by the justice of the case, and would be gladly retraced whenever the opportunity was afforded. The right hon. gentleman proposed three resolutions, formally to effect the objects he had stated.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  rose to give notice of a conditional motion of a very extensive and general nature. He did not know when he should bring it forward, but he believed it would be on an early day in March. It had reference to the relations existing at present between this kingdom and those countries in South America which had formerly belonged to the throne of Spain, and which had now, and indeed for some time past, become independent. He was unable to specify what the nature of his motion would be, or on what day he should bring it forward. He should therefore allow his majesty's ministers further time to make their arrangements; and should be happy to be relieved from the necessity of making his motion at all, by their taking some salutary measures on the subject in the interim.
 Sir J. Newport  seconded the motion, and remarked that, as an act of justice and humanity to the people of Ireland, the House should remove the power of oppression which at present existed.
 Lord
 156  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend an act passed in the year 1816, enabling landlords in Ireland to distrain, as in England, the growing crops of their tenants. To this measure he could see no objection; for he was sure that the landlords themselves could have no desire to exercise this odious power, although, perhaps, their agents might. The object which he had in view was, to take from the effect of the act of 1816 all farms, the rent of which did not amcunt to 10 l
 Mr. Bransby Cooper  rose to second the amendment. The laws for the regulation of the interest of money, which it was the object of the bill to destroy, were, he said, in consistence with the whole of the English laws which had reference to employments in which chance was concerned. The same principle applied to insurances. In the preamble of the bill, there were no arguments in its favour. He thought it much better that the interest of money should be regulated by the present laws than, that all those salutary provisions should be swept away.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that the chief argument against the bill was, that the effect of the repeal of the usury laws would be, to raise the interest of money. Now, in Holland, there never had been any restraint on money dealings; and he could state from his own experience, as well as from history, that there was no country in Europe where the rate of interest had been and was so low as in the United Provinces. He hoped, therefore, that his majesty's government would countenance this measure, which was in perfect unison with the liberal course of policy they had recently adopted.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when this question was brought before the House last session he voted against the proposition, not because there was any advantage in the principle of the existing laws, against which, on the contrary, many arguments could be advanced; but because he was not prepared to say
 162
 Mr. Calcraft  said, it would be very difficult, he was aware, to defend those laws in point of principle; but, in point of practice, he must say that it would be dangerous, without a great deal more consideration, to alter those laws in a country where there was so general and so beneficial a distribution of capital, and where money was to be had at all times at a low rate of interest. If the learned gentleman with whom this measure originated thought, while government was in the market, that any change of the law would make the loan of money cheaper to individuals, he was very much mistaken. He believed the repeal of those laws would raise the price of money to government, instead of reducing it. Gentlemen seemed to suppose, that by carrying this measure, individuals would be saved from ruin, because they would not then be obliged to get into those annuity contracts under which so many families suffered: they believed that a complete end would be put to all ruinous money contracts. But it was utterly impossible to hope for any such result, unless, at the same time that those laws were repealed, they contrived to alter the conduct and temper of individuals. By repealing those laws they would facilitate the borrowing of money by extravagant persons, without conferring any advantage on the steady and industrious part of the community, whom they ought especially to protect. He was not on the committee—[The hon. member was here reminded that he was a member of the committee.] If he was on the committee, he had certainly forgotten the circumstance. He had, however, read the evidence; and if he had known that the learned serjeant's brat, which had been bandied about from session to session, was to have been taken up by government, he would have brought down that evidence, and proved that it did not bear out the view of those who supported this measure. No advantage had been pointed out that would at all warrant them in embarking on such a speculation. There was no country, not even Holland itself, in which wealth had so greatly in-
 163
 Mr. Baring  said, that, after the general concurrence of sentiment which seemed to prevail on this subject, it was scarcely necessary for him to trouble the House with any observations. He could not, however, forbear saying a few words on a subject of such importance, involving, as it undoubtedly did, a change in our laws of very considerable importance. But though it was a change of considerable importance, it was a change which would produce no immediate effect; and it was because it would produce no immediate effect, that he conceived this to be the proper time for legislating on the subject. They were not now legislating on the subject of fixing the value of money; and, perhaps, a more favourable opportunity of doing away with those laws had not occurred in the last half century. It had been said, that a vast accumulation of capital had taken place, notwithstanding the existence of these laws. The fact was, that the accumulation of capital had gone on increasing, because the Usury laws as far as capitalists and monied men were concerned, were wholly inoperative. The invasion of these laws was so easy, that the monied interest had never been affected by them. Not so, however, the agricultural interest; and it was not without surprise, therefore, that he found this measure most vehemently opposed by that very class of the community, which, above all others, it was most calculated to benefit—he meant the country gentlemen. He really hoped, if it were only for the advantage of hearing what could be urged against this measure and that an opportunity might be afforded of removing the prejudices which were entertained against it, that this bill would be suffered to go further. Even if it were not possible to remove the prejudices of the country gentlemen, and to satisfy them that the measure was calculated to promote their interests, nothing would be more easy, when this bill came into the committee, than to restrict its operation to all classes of the community, except the agricultural; so that it might not ex-
 165
 Captain Maberley  said, the hon. member for Wareham had asserted that, the policy of this measure was not borne out by the evidence given before the committee. Now, he had within these few days referred to that evidence, and he begged leave to differ entirely from the opinion of the hon. member. He should give his cordial support to a measure, which he believed to be founded on the soundest principles of commercial policy, and in the expediency of which the most enlightened statesmen, as well as practical men, had equally concurred. He need only refer to such names as those of the late sir Samuel Romilly, the late Mr. Ricardo, Mr. Sugden, and Mr. Rothschild.
 Mr. Baring  requested to be informed of the circumstances under
 166
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that Mr. Vincent's appointment was temporary. The law which came into operation at the death of Mr. Steele, did not provide for the abolition of the office of deputy remembrancer, or fix the manner in which the duties of that office should henceforward be performed. It only required that, whenever that event took place, the lords of the Treasury should determine what should be the future duties of the office, and what should be the extent of the emolument arising from it. The lords of the Treasury, accordingly, upon the death of Mr. Steele, lost no time in calling upon the barons of the Exchequer and on the chancellor of the Exchequer, to report to them as to the nature of the office; but the fact was, that the duties of it, from the nature and constitution of the Exchequer, were absolutely necessary to be continued until some new system could be arranged; and it was not very easy to decide by what system the business would be best done, and with least expense to the public. Pending this inquiry, however, Mr. Vincent had been appointed. He was required himself to perform the duties of the place, and allowed no deputy; and he was directed to receive the accustomed fees for the present, not keeping them for himself, but paying them into the consolidated fund; the lords of the Treasury of course reserving to themselves the power of giving him an adequate compensation for his labour. For himself, he was most anxious to regulate the office in that way which should be most conducive to the public service; and, whatever difficulty there might be in determining the precise mode in which the necessary duties should be executed, there could be no doubt they would be performed at a considerably less expense than they had been heretofore.
 Mr. Baring  professed himself satisfied with the explanation, and trusted that the new arrangement would amount to a complete remodelling of the Exchequer. It was high time that the country should get rid of a system of keeping accounts so cumbrous and so inefficient, that it might almost disgrace a tribe of Indian savages.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would put it to the hon. member, whether this was a convenient moment for presenting such a petition.
 Colonel Davies  doubted the last proposition of the gallant officer, that the amount of taxes could be augmented by such enormous duties on foreign spirits. And whether the surest mode of augmentation would not be considerably to reduce the duties; which would also enable them to get rid of that most expensive system of coast-blockade. By returns for which he had moved last session, it appeared that the expense was no less than 600,000 l
 Mr. Bernal  said, that if those cheers were intended to signalize the triumph of the gallant officer over his hon. friend, that opinion was allowable to those who
 177
 Captain Maberly  stated, that whether he looked to the assurances of the Speech from the throne, which held out hopes of the continuance of peace with foreign powers, or to the states of South America, now assuming an organised form of government, and therefore likely to be relieved from those disputes with neutrals, in which infant communities struggling for freedom were likely to be involved, he saw no ground for the proposed augmentation. Spain, without the assistance of a foreign power, could not renew war in South America. Our commercial intercourse, which had perhaps in the disturbance of revolution suffered, was now to be superintended by consuls, sent out for that special service. The natural expectation was, therefore, that the interference of naval officers would not be necessary as heretofore. What reason, therefore, existed for such an increase? The finance committee, whose reports were on the table, never contemplated a naval peace establishment above 19,000 men.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  confirmed the accuracy of what had just fallen from his hon. and gallant friend. His hon. and gallant friend had never said—no man in his senses ever could think of saying—that the claim of individuals of rank and family to promotion in the naval service was a matter of course. His hon. and gallant friend had said nothing like it. The substance of what his hon. and gallant friend had last session said was, that it was for the good of the naval service, that it was for the good of the whole profession, and even that it was for the I good of that part of the profession which bad nothing but its services to depend; upon, that its general respectability should be maintained by a due mixture in it of men distinguished by birth as well as by service; and that, provided a due proportion of promotion was given to merit and service, those who by their merit and service had earned that promotion, would look without grudging on the promotion of the others. And why? Because the character of every individual in the service materially depended on the general character of the service. In the naval service, as, happily in all classes in England, eminence must be combined of self-created merit, with original claims. The observation of his hon. and gallant friend had been, not that an invidious preference ought to be held out to induce young men of rank and family to enter the navy; but that, without some promise of reward, it could not be expected that they would leave the ease and indulgence of their homes, and that they could be allured to do so only by such a partial expectation of promotion, as would at the same time not be inconsistent with the
 182 183
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  certainly could not congratulate the hon. gentleman opposite on the strength of his memory, for he had undoubtedly been a member of the committee; and it was equally certain that he had attended it. It was scarcely necessary for him to make any observations on the objections which had been made to this measure, after what had fallen from hon. gentlemen opposite, and his right hon. friends near him. The hon. gentleman who seconded the amendment had fallen into a great mistake about the origin of the Usury laws. Much of his veneration for those laws seemed to be founded upon a notion of their great antiquity; but he would probably be surprised to learn, that the taking of interest for money at all was proscribed by our early statutes as being contrary to Christianity. This was the uniform language of our early statutes. It had been said by the hon. baronet opposite, that the landed interest would be borne down by this measure; that in ordinary times money might be readily obtained upon mortgage; and that in seasons of difficulty recourse might be had to the system of raising money by redeemable annuities. Undoubtedly redeemable annuities could be resorted to: they had, in point of fact, been resorted to; but at what rate of interest? Why, at the ruinous rate of 10, 12, 13, and 14 per cent., for two, three, or four lives. This was the remedy which the hon. baronet preferred; this was the ruinous expedient of which he was so much enamoured! Not only had this expedient been resorted to at a period of difficulty, but estates had been actually sold at a time when scarcely a purchaser could be found in the market. He was satisfied, that the repeal of the Usury laws would be so far from being injurious to the landed interest, that no class of the community would derive more essential benefit from that repeal than the agricultural class. The objections which had been made to the measure, on the ground of its being injurious to the commercial interest, were equally unfounded. As to the expedient of borrowing stock to replace it, it had been no less ruinous than that of resorting to redeemable annuities. An hon. friend near him had mentioned a case to him—and this was far from being a solitary instance—in which a person had lost 30 per cent by borrowing stock to re-
 164
 Mr. Davenport  rose to give to it his most decided opposition. The country had grown great and had flourished under the present system of law: where, then, was the necessity of altering it? Besides, the alteration proposed would
 158
 Sir F. Ommanney  supported the resolution.
 Colonel Trench  said, that the Bill about to be introduced was of vital importance to Ireland; its object being to ensure, the permanent residence of competent persons in the different parochial districts. He deprecated the alterations proposed by gentlemen on the other side—alterations which, if once introduced into the sister country, would soon extend themselves to England, and at once create a revolution in the whole Church property of both countries. He did not pretend to deny that there existed abuses which required amendment, but then these abuses must be approached, not rudely, but cautiously; the alterations called for, must be made by a delicate hand; they must be effected, not suddenly, but slowly, and with the utmost circumspection.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he felt bound to object to any interference with church property in Ireland. That property ought to be held as sacred, as the church property of England, and was entitled to equal protection. If once they meddled with the one, inroads would soon be made upon the other also. He wished also to protest against insinuations which had been thrown out, that the Irish clergy did not do their duty. If gentlemen looked about them, they would find that the Irish clergy did their duty in a most exemplary manner. They were assailed on all sides, but still they persevered in one undeviating, straight-forward course. Let any man look to the Irish clergy, either as ministers of the gospel, as magistrates, or as citizens, and, in each capacity, he would have reason to praise their moral and upright conduct. It might so happen, that a parish was neglected, or that an union existed which ought to be dissolved; but the right hon. baronet must be aware, that in a great many instances the union of parishes had become indispensable; as it was found impossible to procure an attendance at the churches which would be established by a subdivision. This, however, was a matter which had not escaped the attention of the bishops of Ireland. They had found it necessary, in some in-
 186
 Mr. Goulburn  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to compel, as far as was possible, the residence of the clergy of Ireland upon their benefices. He did not think it necessary upon this occasion to detain the House very long by explaining the particulars of the measure which he proposed. No one would deny that the residence of the clergy was, in all countries, beneficial to the inhabitants; but it was obvious, that the practice was still more necessary in Ireland, because the greater the difficulties under which that country laboured, the more requisite was it that a vigilant attention should be paid to the wants of its inhabitants. There was another point of view in which the residence of the Irish clergy seemed no less important; not only were they called upon to perform the offices of religion, but, in consequence of the absence of the gentry, they were required to minister to other than the spiritual wants of the people. The object of the bill which he proposed to introduce was, to effect this. In some cases he was aware that the residence must be dispensed with. These were either when the incumbents were compelled to reside on other parts of their benefices, or where the infirmities of nature caused their absence. He proposed to limit these cases to such as were strictly unavoidable; and to take care that an adequate provision should always be made for the administration of the incumbent's duties. By an adequate provision, he not only meant that persons should be employed, who should be duly qualified, by their moral character and acquirements, to be ministers of religion, but that their stipends should be suitable to the duties they would be expected to perform. He would shortly state, that the form of the bill would be in most respects similar to the existing law on the same subject in England. It would con-
 184 seriatim
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he felt it necessary to object to the two points dwelt upon by the hon. Gentlemen opposite; namely the, reduction of pluralities, and the interference with the Church establishment of Ireland. The question with respect to the church livings in Ireland had been so ably supported and opposed elsewhere, that it was unnecessary to discuss it on that occasion. With respect to the other evil alluded to, he was happy to state that the subject had not escaped the primate of Ireland, who fully felt the inconvenience of pluralities in many instances; and he had laid down a rule, that where the union was dissoluble, the occupant was not allowed to hold any other. This was enough to shew that the state of Ireland was not what it was a hundred years ago; and he was sure both the right hon. baronet, and the hon. member for Montrose, would agree with him, that at no time had greater improvements been made in our
 187
 Mr. J. Martin  considered the Usury laws injurious to all classes of the community; but more especially to the agricultural interest.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that the hon. baronet seemed to fear that the mercantile and manufacturing classes, and even the government itself, must suffer by the repeal of those laws. Now, without entering into much argument on those points, it might be enough to state, that the laws against usury had been done away all over Europe, and that no harm had occurred either to governments or to individuals; but, on the contrary, it was to be believed that the interest of all parties were much improved by that repeal. One or two circumstances had come under his own observation, which proved that those
 161
 Mr. Warre  wished to put a question with respect to the arrangements respecting the preventive service, which had established a sort of gendarmerie upon our shores. The high duties imposed in time of war were, now that France and England were at peace, operating as such a bounty upon contraband trade as no vigilance could withstand, and producing actually a regular guerilla warfare between the government force and the smugglers. We had now no fewer than 1,700 men employed in the preventive service, patrolling upon our coast. He wished also to know if, in case of any addition being made to the force appointed to the coast blockade, the additional forces would be put under the same commands as at present. There was one ship of war stationed in the Downs to watch over a line of coast so extensive, that the officer who there held control was either on horseback or in the boat, night and day continually, for weeks together. This he might do from his zeal and anxiety to complete a system of his own creation; but it was too much for the country to receive from the service of any one man. His only object, however, in rising, was, to know if any, and what portion of this additional force was to be put under the command of the gallant officer to whom he had alluded.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, he had good reason to believe, that in Ireland many persons frequented Roman Catholic chapels, and ultimately became Roman Catholics, solely because they had no Protestant churches to go to. He had himself seen in Ireland the ruins of many churches, which had been allowed to go to decay, in consequence of this union of parishes. He hoped something would be done to remedy the evils caused by these unions, and by other parts of the existing system in Ireland.
 Mr. Hume  expressed a hope, that in the event of the bill in question being passed into a law, care would be taken to insert a clause depriving the bishops of the
 185
 Mr. Hume  observed, that after what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he would not press his amendment to a division.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had no wish whatever to interfere with other business; and would therefore present the petition upon another occasion.
 Mr. Hume  rose to present a petition connected with the charges for the navy. The petitioner was
 167
 Mr. Hume  asked, why ministers had allowed six British ships of war to remain in the Tagus, doing nothing, while there was only one at Lima?—Let the Board of Admiralty answer that. What cause was there at present for an extension of our naval force in South America? While the South American colonies were in confusion, and privateers were fitted out from those colonies, to attack the trade of all countries—then, where were our ships? Then, indeed, there might have been some cause for apprehension; but then, no efforts were made. Now, that those states were independent;—now that their independence was acknowledged to a certain degree, what fear could there be of their ships meddling with our trade at sea? As to the question, respecting the promotion of masters in the navy, he readily admitted, that if they were not qualified, they ought not to be promoted, and allowed to take the situation of lieutenants. But the order in council to which he had alluded, declared that they were not eligible even to be examined. If there was an order in council which stated that if masters were meritorious they should be promoted, let the gallant officer produce it, and he would not say another word on the subject. In all that he had said, his only object had been to uphold the navy, by advising that pre-eminent
 180
 Mr. Hume  said, he was not satisfied with the addition of the navy, nor did he like the mode in which the accounts were laid before the House. It was impossible to choose any method in which mischief would be more likely to arise, than the combining of the preventive service, with the regular means of defence for the country. The House was kept from knowing the limits of either branch of the service; and if it were not so, it was next to impossible to ascertain the expense of collecting the revenue, and consequently, they were without the power of deliberat-
 171 172 173 174 175
 Mr. Hume  said, after the observations which had fallen from the hon. member who spoke last, he should be sorry that the bill should go to a division, without some explanation being afforded of the mistake he had fallen into. The hon. member had said, that the Usury Jaws were consistent with the laws of England. Now, the whole tendency of modern legislation, as of the ancientlaws, was, to give the greatest freedom to bargains, and, to all sorts of mercantile transactions. The greatest benefit that had been conferred upon the country by any administration for the last thirty years, was that which had resulted from the enlightened policy of the present administration, in breaking down the absurd restrictions with which commerce had been previously shackled. The hon. member had referred to insurances; and it certainly did surprise him, that any one should adduce a reason which would lead to a result so contrary to that which he aimed at. There was no law to prevent underwriters from taking any premium on a policy which they might agree on with the insured. The analogy of the Usury laws indeed, should lead them to fix certain rates of insurance, without reference to circumstances; as, for instance, that the premium to the West Indies should be 5 per cent, to the East 7, and so on, which
 159
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had been a member of the committee to whom this subject was referred in 1818, and who had reported their sentiments to the House. The opinion he had formed in that committee he still entertained. Indeed, he had never varied from it. He need hardly say that it was entirely in unison with the object of the learned serjeant. He considered the Usury laws as only calculated to add to the difficulties of borrowing money, to increase litigation, and to encourage fraud.
 Sir George Clerk  observed, in reference to the statement of the hon. member for Aberdeen, that in the year 1817, his majesty's ministers had held out the hope of still further reduction in the naval branch, he could positively say the hon. member was mistaken. Indeed, there was no sentiment more general in that House, and with the gentlemen on the other side, who generally voted with the hon. member, than the apprehension that at that period the naval force was reduced lower than the public service warranted. It was, in fact, reduced below the state in which it stood at the hon. gentleman's favourite epoch, the year 1792. The hon. gentleman had assumed, that no reason had or could be assigned for the augmentation at present proposed, except the demands of the coast blockade. Now, it was in the recollection of the committee, that in proposing the resolution, he had adverted to the necessity of such an augmentation, from the state of affairs which, without any prospect of hostilities on our part, naturally grew out of the condition
 176
 Sir George Clerk  rose, to bring forward the Navy Estimates for the present year. He said, that after the great reductions which had already taken place in our naval department, he did not apprehend that any further ones were likely to be proposed. The vote called for this year was about 320,000 l 168 l l 169 l s
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that it certainly was the intention of government to continue the system of the preventive service as at present established, which, notwithstanding the remarks of the hon. member, had operated with most complete success. There had been one violent and bloody affray upon the coast of Kent, which had been much dwelt on by the opponents of the system; but it was merely the last desperate effort of the smugglers in that part, to defend their unlawful occupation against the encroachments of the preventive service. It was very true that captain M'Culloch had his whole heart in the success of the system, of which he was the contriver, and that his duties were of a very weighty kind, his command reaching in extent from Chichester, westward, to the Isle of Sheppy, eastward. Of the additional force now asked for, 630 seamen were to be placed under the superintendence and direction of that officer. The narrowness of the channel in this
 170
 Sir George Cockburn  said, he would not appeal to either of the hon. members, to know whether the speech which he had had the honour of making to the House in the course of last session was satisfactory or not to the officers in the service. There were several able and experienced officers in the House: if they were prepared to say, that there was any thing in the remarks which he had then made which was disagreeable to the service generally, let them get up and assert it manfully. He himself was intimate with some officers of the service, and probably had had as much experience to guide him, as to the general opinion of what he then said, as either of the hon. members. What he had then advanced, he now repeated; namely, that while the road of promotion was kept open to merit and enterprise, however obscure the station and origin of the parties, the navy would feel no jealousy whatever at seeing persons of rank and condition promoted among them. Let not the committee believe that the employment of officers of high rank and connexions was the source of any mean or undue jealousy in that service. On the contrary, the navy felt proud in having such men in the profession—they felt
 178
 Sir G. Cockburn  wished still more particularly to deny the bold misrepresentation which had been made of the opinions which he had delivered in the last session. What he had most distinctly stated was, not that every young nobleman, or other man of family, ought to be promoted such an assertion would have been most absurd. The whole of his argument had been, that if it were proved that sufficient attention
 181
 Sir J. Wrottesley  said, he should take leave to say a few words on the subject before the House, which was one of the moat important that could be agitated, especially to the landed interest. The measure now before them was, to sweep away the laws which had been sanctioned by the experience of years. During that time, the uniform practice of the government of this country had been to prevent extortion and usury, by enacting those laws which some individuals now wished to be repealed. This country, instead of being injured, had been greatly benefitted by the Usury laws. Since the period of the last act, that of queen Anne, there was no country in which capital had accumulated to so great an extent as it had done in England; and yet they were now called upon to repeal laws, which brought the whole capital of the country into the metropolis. If they were repealed, it ought not to be on mere theoretical grounds: some practical good should be pointed out as likely to be effected by the measure. He contended, that those laws had done no practical injury to the landed interest. In times of distress, it was true, they borrowed
 160
 Sir J. Newport  expressed his readiness to concur in any measure which should be calculated to carry into effect the object of the right hon. gentleman, and he thought the best means of accomplishing that object would be by preventing the beneficed clergy from holding pluralities. There were instances in which clergymen, already holding five, or six, and even ten benefices, had obtained faculties by which they were permitted to unite to those benefices, three or four more parishes. By a reference to the episcopal returns, it would be found that lord Clifford, in the deanery of Armagh, held four parishes, in which duty was performed, and that he was in possession of 388 acres of glebe; he held also four other parishes, and in right of them 297 acres of glebe; but, in these latter parishes, no duty was performed. There was also another living in another diocess, consisting of five parishes, in none of which there was a glebe house, although there were 240 acres of glebe land. In the diocess of Clogher there was enjoyed in right of a living, 1,300 acres of glebe land, though there was no glebe house; and in that of Meath, five vicarages, containing 2,600 acres were in the same situation. The only way, he thought, of procuring the residence of the clergy would be by doing away with these monstrous pluralities, as he would call them, The law, as it stood upon the Irish Statute-book, prevented the bishops who were inclined to do so, from dissolving these unions. The bishop of Cloyne had publicly expressed his regret, that he was prevented from doing so by the act of the 21st of Geo. 2nd, which forbad such dissolutions, that the value of ecclesiastical dignities might not be diminished.
 Sir W. de Crespigny  expressed his entire concurrence in the policy of the measure.
 Mr. S. Worthy  was desirous to obtain the opinion of all persons who were concerned in the measure, and with that view would allow as much time as he could conveniently. But his hon. friend would recollect, that besides the class he had alluded to, there was a very large body of persons, namely, the public, who were interested in this measure. It was undoubtedly of importance to that body, that the question should be decided as early as possible.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he merely rose to answer one or two questions which had been put to him by the noble lord opposite, before the debate went any farther. Looking from the period at which the Spanish government left Seville, to the surrender of Cadiz, the noble lord had asked, whether sir W. A'Court, during that time, had acted upon instructions, or upon his own personal discretion. The answer was, that sir W. A'Court had acted, in some degree, upon both. Government had endeavoured to foresee every case which was likely to arise, and had furnished sir W. A'Court with instructions, in every such case, how to act; but that gentleman had also been made fully aware, that if circumstances should arise which the caution of ministers had not enabled them to foresee, the greatest confidence was placed upon his personal discretion, and he had been apprised that, supposing any case of a new and unprecedented nature to occur, the ' safest course for him would be to repair to Gibraltar, and either remain there until he should receive instructions, or proceed to any other spot at which his services I might seem to be required. It so happened, that none of the cases foreseen by government did occur, and that a case did occur—upon which he should not dwell now, because he did not mean, in the present stage, at all to argue the question. A case did occur, which no wisdom of man could have foreseen; namely, the deposition, for a limited period, of the king. Sir W. A'Court, certainly, had not been prepared for this event; and it would be rather a high demand upon the sagacity of ministers, to say, that they should have anticipated it: under such circumstances, sir William, of course, acted for the time upon his own discretion. It was true that sir W.
 204
 Mr. Sturges Bourne's  motion being then put; namely, "That this House is duly sen-
 210
 Lord Nugent  said, that in laying before the House the grounds of the motion of which he had some days ago given notice, he must begin with stating, that he did not mean to animadvert on the vote to which the House had agreed on the first night of the session. This, however, he must say—that with respect to that part of the address of his majesty's ministers which regarded the neutrality of this country between France and Spain, he felt entirely with his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham), who on that night had so forcibly and so eloquently expressed his sentiments—he felt with him that it was very difficult indeed to concur entirely in the terms of an address which could see nothing but a subject of congratulation in the result of the policy pursued by this country during the war which had just terminated. He thought, on the one hand, that the policy which government professed to adopt towards Spain,
 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 198 199 200 201 202 203
 Lord Nugent  rose to reply. He said that the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had mistaken much that had fallen from him; and it appeared to him, that if the right hon. gentleman disapproved of the motion, the most obvious course would
 208 209
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws for the preservation of Game; and, though he knew, he; said, that the House was anxious to get to the very important business that was fixed for the evening, he could not pass over his motion without some remarks; for there could be no subject more important to the comfort, to the morals, and the well being of the people of this country, than that to which it related. He professed himself, from his station in life, to be a country gentleman, and had been a strict preserver of game in a part of the county where it was extremely difficult to preserve it; yet he was persuaded, that the fears of his brother country gentlemen on
 188 189
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  said, that if the British Government had been guilty of the breach of neutrality which the noble lord would ascribe to them, he thought they should not only have heard of it at home, but it would have been loudly proclaimed abroad; yet, strange to say, this was the first intimation he had heard of such a charge. He had expected the noble lord would not have confined himself to a general charge, but would have pointed out the particular instances upon which he founded his accusation, and then he should have been able to follow him. The country would, at least, give the government credit for having prevented a war, which would have gone from one end of Europe, probably, to the other, and brought England into the contest. That fact was absolutely certain, with the greater proportion of the Spanish population. But it was worth while to examine a little further the circumstances under
 205 206 207
 Sir J. Shelley  did not rise to oppose the bringing in of the bill; but he must in the outset, protest against the principle on which it proceeded. If this bill was carried, game would soon disappear, and those field sports to which country gentlemen were so much attached, would be effectually destroyed. On the second reading, he should certainly take the sense of the House upon it. He begged of his hon. friend to put off the second reading for some time. Gentlemen in various parts of the country were extremely anxious on the subject, and an opportunity ought to be afforded them to state their sentiments. Let not gentlemen suppose that game alone would be affected by the proposed alteration. The fact was, that if it were carried, fox-hunting also would be destroyed.
 Mr. Davies Gilbert  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the more effectual Recovery of Penalties before Magistrates, and for facilitating the execution of warrants. The hon. gentleman said, that in cases of conviction before a magistrate for certain offences, without entering into the large question, whether it was fit to extend or narrow the summary jurisdiction of magistrates, the bill which he proposed would be confined to the remedying of two defects, which every one, he imagined, would be desirous of seeing removed. The first was, as to those fines which were directed by law to be levied by distress on the goods of the offender. As the law stood, when such a fine was imposed by the magistrate, he had no power to detain the offender till it was seen whether or no he had any goods on which distress might be made; so that in the case of vagrants and others who could remove themselves meanwhile out of the jurisdiction of the magistrate, it was sometimes impracticable to inflict any punishment in the cases which most deserved it. He proposed, therefore, to enable the magistrate, when oath was made that it was believed the offender had no goods and chattels, to detain him until inquiry was made. The second defect was one that had been recently discovered. It had been decided, however, by the courts
 213
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he felt some difficulty in meeting this motion, because he had not only to contend with the hon. gentleman opposite as a member of that House, but he had also to contend with him as a key, and consequently under all the disadvantages necessarily arising from a want of the hon. gentleman's local information and experience. The hon. gentleman had dealt with this question both as a member of that House, and as a member of the insular legislature; and though he might feel satisfied that he should be able to answer the call of the hon. member in his more general capacity, he certainly did not feel himself equally prepared to contend with him in his capacity of Key. He had to observe, in the first place, that the form of the hon. member's notice was somewhat inaccurate. He had given notice that he meant to move for a copy of the Insinuations to the duke of Athol to make alterations in the Criminal Law of the Isle of Man. Now, who would not suppose from this notice, that he (Mr. P.) had given some arbitrary instructions to make an alteration in the criminal law of that island? He would shortly explain to the House the question upon which he was called upon to decide: it was a question of law, namely, whether the House of Keys, which was the popular branch of the legislature, was entitled to be called upon to act upon every jury trial that took place in the island. If, a the hon. member contended, the popular branch of the legislature was also, by the local constitution of the island, a branch of a criminal court, he (Mr. P.) would certainly give him an opportunity of discussing the policy of allowing a court to be so constituted; for he should, without delay, move for an act of parliament to deprive them of the right, and clear all doubts upon the subject. That the popular branch of the legislature should sit upon every jury trial, and control the decision of the jury, was so monstrous an anomaly, that it ought at once to be put an end to. The question of law, however, having arisen, as to whether the House of Keys did form a part of the Court of Gaol Delivery, he (Mr. P.) had referred the case to the Recorder of Liverpool, who was attorney-general of the island. That gentleman took the subject into his consideration, and gave a derided opinion, that there was no ground for such a claim of jurisdiction on the part of
 219 dehors l.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, in explanation, that it was the opinion of the attorney-general, that the House of Keys formed no part of the court of gaol delivery, though it had been occasionally referred to in cases of corrupt finding.
 The Attorney-General  said, that the case had been laid before himself and his learned colleague, and, upon a full inspection of the documents, they were clearly of opinion, that at no period in the history of that Island did the Court of Keys form a part, by right, of the court of gaol delivery; at no period did they form, of right, a constituent part of that tribunal. But the House of Keys, not at a very remote period, but about a hundred years ago, had usurped the right of arraigning the conduct, and summoning before them, and fining the court of gaol delivery, for whatever they considered improper. The hon. member asked, whether they did not attend the court? He answered "Yes;" but they had no power to do so. They were never members of that court, and the power which they exercised was an usurpation. He apprehended that the right hon. secretary of state, had never given any instructions on the subject. The opinion of the attorney-general of the Island was first taken; then it was considered advisable to ascertain whether the law officers of the Crown concurred with him; and, when their opinion had been taken, it was forwarded to the governor of the Island. His hon. and learned friend opposite had said, that these parties had a right to be heard; but the House must consider that this opinion to which he had adverted was given twelve months ago, and since that time an ample opportunity had been afforded them of making their appeal. But the hon. mover seemed to think that House a fitter tribunal to appeal to, than that which had been constituted by the law of the land. His opinion, and that of his learned colleague was, that the claim of the House of Keys was not founded in law; but, if others were of a different opinion, there was an obvious course by which that right might be fully ascertained.
 The Attorney General  said, in explanation, that he thought he had given a full contradiction to the statement of the hon. mover, that the presence of the House of Keys, or a majority of them, Was at any time essential to the validity of any verdict. Such was not the case. On an inspection of the documents submitted to him, he was of opinion, that they had no such, right as that which they claimed.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  approved of the consolidation of the bankrupt laws into one system. The decisions under the various acts had rendered a very complicated system of law necessary. He joined most cordially in the tribute which his hon. friend had paid to a gentleman, not a member of that House. He knew that individual well, and was aware how much his valuable time had been devoted to this subject. The measure which that gentleman's industry had so great a share in producing, was, he conceived, the foundation of the present.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that if the intention of his hon. and learned friend was, to make an alteration in the existing acts by leaving out certain parts of them, and thus altering, in many respects, the law, he had, undoubtedly, imposed on himself a duty of extreme difficulty; because there was nothing so difficult, after all the decisions under those laws, as to say, that he would embody all that was necessary in his consolidated act, and at the same time preserve untouched those decisions. It was an arduous task, and he hoped the public would have no cause to complain of his hon. and learned friend's labours. He entirely approved of the alteration which the learned gentleman meant to introduce. It was an approximation to the Scotch  cession bonorum,
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the argument on which his hon. friend relied, namely, the length of time during
 220
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the point to which he was anxious to call the attention of the House, was the practice. This was stated by his hon. friend to have been a long and uninterrupted usage, and to this statement he had heard no contradiction from the right hon. gentleman. All that he could collect from his statement was this—that a doubt having arisen on the subject, and application having been made to him on the subject, he had called in to his assistance the opinions of the law officers of the Crown, and that the result of those opinions was, that the attendance of the House of Keys was an usurpation arising from an alleged necessity, and founded upon a supposition of corruption in the judges of the criminal court. But, this single fact alone showed most strongly the vast importance of the subject. On the one hand, we had a very narrow assemblage of people, who contended they had a clear and undisturbed right; and, on the other hand, a practice of some extent was admitted, the origin of which practice was founded upon the necessity of some control over a supposed corruption. Supposing, then, this to be the case, there arose the very material question, who were to be the substitutes? According to the statement of the secretary of state, the substitutes were to be the very judges who were considered so corrupt. This showed most strongly the strange administration of justice in that Island, for the purity of which, according to the existing practice, there seemed to be no security. But his next objection to the course which had been adopted, was a very strong one. Admitting that the opinion of the attorney-general for the Island, and the law officers of the Crown were correct, which he did not mean to doubt, still he should say, that in fairness these people had a right to be heard, before the decision of the secretary of state had been pronounced. The correct course would
 221
 Mr. Curwen  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for documents relative to certain alterations which had been made by the duke of Athol in the Criminal Law of the Isle of Man. The question was of vital importance, not to that island alone, but to all the islands appertaining to Great Britain; for, if a change of this kind were allowed to be arbitrarily made
 216 ipse dixit 217
 Mr. J. Smith  seconded the motion. The hon. member said, he had witnessed the evils resulting from the expenses attending the present system of recovering small debts; indeed, if he were called on to state the greatest oppression which the poor endured, he should mention the vexation and expense suffered in the recovery of small debts. He had known an instance of the effects of it in his own family. A servant of his had been arrested for a debt of 17 l. s. l. s. 212 l. l. s.
 Mr. J. Smith  thought the country was under great obligations to the learned gentleman for the measure which he was about to introduce, and of which he entirely approved. But, considering the situation in which he was formerly placed, as chairman of the committee on the bankrupt laws, and in justice to those with whom he then laboured, he must say, that the measure which the learned gentleman now proposed was identically the same in principle with that which he (Mr. S.) had brought forward some time ago. He had given up much time to the consideration of this subject; but, however well he might understand it, he did not pretend to possess that legal knowledge which would enable him to form a bill of such a description as would meet all objections. The main object of this bill was one which a clever and intelligent solicitor of the city had long been endeavouring to carry into effect. He alluded to Mr. Freshfield, who had for two years given his advice and assistance, almost gratuitously, on this complicated subject. He, therefore, should be sorry, if a question of this kind were taken out of his hands altogether, without stating how much benefit had been derived from Mr. Freshfield's exertions. The learned gentleman had alluded to one or two clauses which he meant to introduce. One of these he was afraid would meet with considerable opposition. He alluded to that which related to the obtaining of certificates; and which would prevent the withholding of that necessary document from the bankrupt at the pleasure of a single creditor. No clause could deserve more serious consideration than this; because, to his own knowledge, some most grievous hardships, he would say most abominable acts of injustice, had been suffered by bankrupts, in consequence of the conduct of individual creditors who had large demands on them; and who had kept their certificates from well-meaning bankrupts, and condemned them to want and misery for
 215
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, it appeared to him, that the real question which the House had to determine was, whether his right hon. friend, the secretary of state, had acted properly in the course which he had pursued [cries of "no, no"]. He contended that it was; for all those who had spoken on the other side of the House, had put the question in that shape. What the secretary of state had to do was this: to declare how practically the judicature of the island was to be administered; and he had very properly, exercising a sound caution, intrenched himself under those wise guards which his situation afforded him. What was to be done? How was the governor to act? Was the administration of justice to stand still, or was the secretary of state to hesitate in giving him the best advice he could procure? It appeared to him, that he had no other alternative but the course he had pursued. The question was, whether the governor was bound to summon these parties or not? He should not discuss the question as to the propriety of the House of Keys forming a part of the criminal court. The only point was, whether they had exercised this usage rightfully, or whether they should be now deprived of it.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given yesterday, to move for leave to bring in a bill "to consolidate and amend the Laws relating to Bankrupts." As the House must be aware of the nature of those laws, and of the necessity of revising them, he would not enter into any general view of the subject. It would, however, be proper to make one or two observations on the nature of the proposed measure. One of the main objects of the bill would be, the consolidation of the various acts relating to this subject, in order to present, at one view, the whole state of the law—to point out clearly who were the persons liable to be subjected to its operations; what were the acts which brought them under its controul; and what the power granted by the different statutes. In addition to this, he meant to propose for consideration, some alterations in the existing law. He would not state the whole of the alterations he contemplated, but he would briefly advert to one or two of them. In the first place, he would propose a clause on a very important point; namely, the allowing persons, under certain restrictions and limitations, to declare themselves bankrupt, which, on account of the criminal character attached to the act of bankruptcy, as the law now stood, they were disqualified from doing. He admitted there were circumstances under which this could not be allowed; but, under particular restrictions and limitations, it might be carried into effect. He should also propose some alteration with respect to the manner in which certificates were to be obtained and granted. He felt very great difficulty in legislating on
 214
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, be had listened with great attention to the statement of his hon. friend, the mover, and to the explanations which had been given by the right hon. the secretary of state, and his learned friend the attorney-general, and he was reduced to the necessity of stating, that he was by no means satisfied with the explanations that had been given. He should leave out of the argument altogether the question as to whether the practice, contended for on the one hand, and opposed on the other, were or were not inconvenient or inexpedient. He did not object to the reformation of the practice, but to the mode in which it was attempted to be introduced. He and his friends objected to the measure, because there did not seem to be a sufficient degree of feeling for the claims of a respectable provincial legislature, which, although subordinate to parliament, had a right to substantial justice at their hands. He considered that his hon. friend was entitled to the gratitude of the country, as well as of that particular island, for bringing the question before the House; nor could he agree in the justice of the charge which had been made against him, of departing from the original notice of his motion; for surely so important an alteration in the only criminal court in that island was to all intents and purposes, a change in the criminal law of the land; and he thought the terms of the motion were perfectly applicable to such a change. His learned friend, the attorney-general, had said, that they had had ample time to appeal, as the opinion of the law officers of the Crown had been given twelve months ago; but his learned friend had not told the House at what time that opinion had been forwarded, or when the first step was taken by government. The formal notification which was given on the 9th of this month was what they had to deal with. His hon. friend, the mover, himself a member of the House of Keys, who was peculiarly bound to contend for their claims in parliament, and who might justly be supposed acquainted with the usage and practice of the island, had stood up in his place in the House, and stated that the usage had always been, that a majority of the House of Keys had been always essential to a decision of the court of gaol delivery. Their presence was always considered essential to the execution of the sentence of the supreme court. He only re-stated the opinion of
 223
 Lord Althorp,  in moving for leave to bring in a bill for the
 211 l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell,  in rising to move for the production of the papers which he had annually moved for, respecting the Bank of England, said, that before he proceeded to remark on the accounts which were the object of his motion, he would, with the permission of
 227 228 l l l l l l 229 l l. l s d 230
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that with respect to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, as to the right of calling upon the Bank to furnish ah account of the Bank-notes issued, he confessed he thought it would be extremely hard upon the Bank to expect, under the circumstances in which they stood towards the public, that they should, as a matter of course, furnish such an account. He would not go so far as to say, that there might not be circumstances which would justify the House in calling for such an account; but he could not concur with the hon. gentleman, as to the justice or expediency of calling for it as a mere matter of course. With respect to the other topics which the hon. member had introduced, as he had no objection to his motion, he did not think it necessary to enter into them at any length. The subject was not before the House, and no practical result could follow from discussing it on the present occasion. The hon. gentleman had stated most accurately, that within the last few years, the balances in the hands of the Bank had been greatly diminished, and rendered available to the public service. The Bank had most readily acquiesced in the arrangements by which the amount of those balances had been diminished. With respect to the charge for the management of the public debt, he did not quite understand whether it was the intention of the hon. gentleman to call upon the House to express any specific opinion as to the expediency of reducing that charge. He would not pretend to offer any decided opinion upon a question of law, but it certainly did appear to him, that the grounds upon which the law officers of the Crown had given their opinion as to the right of the Bank to claim an adherence to the agreement made in the time of Mr. Perceval, were most solid and substantial. He could not think, therefore, that the House would be justified in calling upon the Bank, whether they would or not, to manage the public debt at a reduced charge. The House would recollect, that some years ago, the Bank consented to a reduction of charge with respect to all that portion of the public debt which exceeded a given amount, by way of general compromise. As long as the Bank charter lasted, he
 231
 Mr. Ellce  said, that the hon. director had totally misrepresented the argument of his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen. His hon. friend had not made it a ground of charge against the Bank, that they had advanced money to the landed interest; on the contrary, he had contended, that if the government paid off the debt to the Bank, that corporation would be enabled to lend their money at a cheaper rate. With respect to the propriety of that House requiring from the Bank a statement of the amount of their notes in circulation, he admitted, that if the Bank were merely a corporate body, without any extraordinary privileges, like the Bank of Scotland, they would have no right to call upon them for such an account. But, the situation of the Bank of England was an exception to all general rules. It was a great monopolizing body, enjoying privileges which belonged to no other corporation, and to no other class of his majesty's subjects. Those privileges were granted for the benefit of commerce; but, instead of employing their capital for the advantage of trade, as was intended on its original establishment, the whole conduct of the Bank had been directly opposed to the commercial interests of the country. It was difficult, he knew, to find a set of men in that House to take this view of the subject; because the system of the Bank was in favour of the great capitalists. If a great capitalist went into the market, the conduct of the Bank did not affect him in borrowing; but it did affect the rate of discount between an individual and his banker, and it sensibly affected men of moderate capital. While others would be content to discount for 3½,the Bank kept up the rate to 4 per cent. As the Tariff of the Bank of England was a rule to all the other banks in the country, every person who went for discount to his banker, was obliged to pay 4 l 235 236
 Mr. Baring  said, he thought it was premature to be discussing at the present moment the question of renewing, or not renewing, the Bank charter; but if any persons believed that the country would be able to get on without any such establishment as a Bank, or without an establishment a good deal like what the Bank was at present, he differed from such persons in opinion, and he thought that they would find themselves mistaken. With the management of the public debt he would not meddle, for it was a subject which had been already canvassed over and over again. The question of the balances, as it seemed to him, had always been most unfairly stated by the hon.
 237 l l 238 l 239
 Mr. Maberly  said, he considered the profit which the Bank of England derived from the management of the public debt much more than they had a right to receive; and he thought it would be very adviseable that a committee should be appointed to examine the matter, and determine what profit the Bank should receive; and if, as had been stated, 100,000 l 240 l
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Gaol act passed in the last session. It had been found, upon carrying that act into execution, that there were one or two particulars which impeded its operation, and to amend it in these respects was the object of his present motion. In the first place, the act as it now stood required certain things to be done at the general quarter sessions in each county. The counties of York and Lincoln being divided into districts,
 242
 Sir T. Lethbridge  took that opportunity of complaining of the hardship and injustice which was experienced by the land-owners in being compelled to pay the whole expense of the administration of criminal justice in each county. That expense was entirely defrayed out of the county rates, and had undergone so rapid an increase within the last fifty years, that it was now a very important charge. He had looked into the accounts of his own county for some years past, and, without troubling the House at any length, with the particulars of the great increase, he would merely state, that in the year 1761 the charge for printing was 33 l s l l l
 Colonel Wood  rose also for the purpose of suggesting to the right hon. gentleman an alteration in the consolidated gaol act of the last session; he meant so far as related to the classification clauses. If they were to be carried into execution, it could only be done at an expense which the smaller counties were ill able to bear, and which moreover appeared to be quite unnecessary. In Breconshire, the county which he had the honour to represent, the gaol Consisted of four yards, four day-
 244 l.
 Mr. Hobhouse  rose for the purpose of calling the right hon. gentleman's attention to the injurious consequences of the introduction of the tread-mill into the prison discipline. Notwithstanding the reports which the right hon. gentleman had received respecting it, he (Mr. H.) thought that a mere inspection of the machine was sufficient to prove its inadequacy to the purpose for which it was intended. All the persons sent to it were exposed to the same degree of labour; without any allowance being made for difference of strength and constitution. The committee on prison discipline had furnished even a more cogent reason why punishment should be in some degree modified, when they denounced it as a dangerous instrument of oppression in the hands of wanton and ignorant persons. He was happy to see the promptitude with which the secretary of state for the home department had met the gross misapplication of this system in a recent case where magistrates had contended for the power of dooming persons to the treadmill before trial. How any living beings could, for one single instant, have presumed that they were justified in such a misapplication, appeared to him a most extraordinary phenomenon. And (said Mr. Hobhouse) I must be allowed here to say, that if the magistracy of this kingdom evince such a promptitude to exercise powers of harshness and oppression, and unless such a spirit be met by the resistance of this House, and of the government, that body, which have, perhaps too hastily, been called a blessing, will dege-
 245
 Alderman Wood  could not coincide in the fears of his hon. friend, as to the apprehension of any excess of punishment from the introduction of the tread-mill. That system of labour had been in practice in the city of London for the last hundred years, on the commercial quays; and he, therefore, could not see any reason to suppose that that portion of labour which was voluntarily undertaken by the labouring classes, could operate prejudicially as a species of prison discipline. In the gaol of Newgate a severer kind of labour was made applicable to the wants of the prison, and no bad effects had been experienced from it. With respect to the proposition thrown out by the hon. member for Somersetshire, he should only say, that complaints of expense came with a very bad grace from a county whose prison and whose prison discipline had been the subject of censure in a parliamentary report. As to the expenses attendant on the administration of criminal justice, he begged to say is answer to
 246
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that in reply to the observations of the hon. baronet, the member for Somerset, he should only observe, that he would willingly attend to any suggestion, which would afford the best means of giving the fullest information to parliament, on the subject to which the hon. baronet had alluded. But he was persuaded that, for a due control on the expenditure which local burthens created, the local magistracy was best calculated to devise the means. To place such a duty on a public officer for the country generally, was, in his judgment, most objectionable; and would lead to a much larger expenditure, and to a less efficient check. He must be allowed to add, that if great burthens arose in counties from the expenses of criminal prosecutions, the certain method to reduce the amount, was by a salutary and efficient system of prison regulation. With respect to what had fallen from his hon. friends, the members for the principality, with every disposition to attend to the particular cases, he felt great difficulty in. admitting the principle that there should be no classification of Welsh prisons. In his present view of their objections, however, he should merely throw out as a suggestion, that though it was impossible to admit the exemption claimed, yet he thought the difficulty might be met, by three or four Welsh counties combining to erect a prison for themselves. The purposes of classification would, in that case, be fully answered. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Westminster, he really wished that hon. gentleman would take the trouble to
 247
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he had next to address the House on a subject of considerable importance; namely, the consolidating, and in some degree amending, the various acts relative to the summoning and challenging of juries. It was wholly unnecessary, in this period of our history, or in that House, to pass any eulogium on that great barrier of public security. Neither would it be supposed that any measure he was about to introduce was intended to weaken, in the slightest degree, the efficiency of that admirable system. His object was, to consolidate all the various statutes now in existence, and in some particulars to amend the jury enactments. When he assured the House that there existed no less than fifty different statutes applicable to the summoning, the qualifications, and the challenging of jurors, the very existence of such a fact would shew the propriety of consolidating all those various enactments into one act.
 248 249
 Mr. Wodehouse  highly approved of the measure, and dwelt on the expediency of introducing a bill to enforce the attendance of special jurymen, who, in many counties, were very negligent of their duty. He was desirous also that returns should be regularly made of the persons summoned to serve as special jurymen, especially in the courts of Middlesex. Disclaiming the slightest intention of casting any reflection on the learned persons presiding in those courts, he could not help thinking, that in some of them, especially in the court of Exchequer, there was a considerable laxity of proceeding on this subject: He repeated his entire approbation of the proposed measure. By a steady and quiet attention to such subjects, though no noisy fame might be attached to it—the right hon. secretary would confer the greatest benefit on the country, and one which the great body of the people would duly appreciate.
 Dr. Lushington  said, he was very unwilling to engage in the present discussion, but he could not allow the observations which had just been made to pass without remark. His hon. friend who spoke last thought that parliament ought to be satisfied with the existing statutes, in the confusion in which they were; and conceived that there was danger in consolidating them, because in the operation some error might creep in, which it might be afterwards necessary to rectify. The answer to this was, that here was a great existing evil; so great, indeed, that it was almost impossible, on any given subject, to ascertain what the statute-law was. He would venture to assert, that there was no lawyer in the land, however learned—not even the noble lord at the head of the law in this country—who could say, with reference to any subject, that there might not be some statute respecting it, of which he had no knowledge. The multiplicity and confusion of our statutes constituted one of the greatest grievances
 252
 Mr. Grattar  rose to submit a motion to which he could not anticipate any reasonable objection. It was merely for some returns as to the names and religious profession of certain individuals filling particular offices in Ireland; and his motion was, in effect,
 253 254
 Mr. Hobhouse  resumed: The right hon. gentleman might be right: the question was one of importance; conflicting assertions were made; and the returns which had been called for could alone show who was right. The noble lord had said that nineteen out of twenty of those appointed were Protestants; and an hon. friend below him, had stated, that they amounted to 49 out of 50. As to what the right hon. gentleman had said, that that House had no right to inquire as to who were Protestants, or who were Catholics, was it not the daily practice of that House to make inquiries? Would the right hon. gentleman take upon him to say, that the persons who held offices in Ireland would object to answer the question as to their religion? No, they would answer with alacrity: these inquisitorial horrors existed only in the imagination of the right hon. gentleman. The object of the motion was, to show, how completely the religion of a man operated as a bar to honour, and to emolument. The people of Ireland were, like the people of England, and like every other people in the world,
 257
 Mr. Goulbrn  said, he really did not.
 Mr. Hobhouse .—Then, if the right hon. gentleman did not know, he ought to inquire how many Roman Catholics were employed by the government in any official appointments in Ireland. Could any knowledge be more necessary for the secretary for Ireland? The return now moved for would shew, that all the boastings of parliament, as to what they had done for Ireland since 1793, were vain; that they had only kept that predominating party in power, which claimed not only power, but arms also, exclusively. To that party arms had been given, which never would be laid down but with their power; and, indeed, it was only last session, he believed, that one of their petitions from Londonderry honestly set forth, that having won their rights at the era of the glorious revolution, by the victories which their ancestors had gained under king William, they could not be expected to surrender the arms with which those rights had been won. Having never before spoken upon the subject, the House would pardon him for trespassing upon their attention. It was his opinion, that Englishmen could not too often enter into the discussion of Irish affairs. They should consider Ireland as an integral part of their country, and watch with common solicitude over her interests and her rights. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would not persist in objecting to the motion; if he did, undoubtedly it would be renewed; the House must have the returns. He hoped that that part of the government who professed more liberal views towards Ireland would act a candid and manly part, and would not resist the production of returns which would place in a striking point of view, the effects of that deplorable system of misrule which had been so long upheld. To expose that system would be to insure its downfal. Was it to be endured, that the people of Ireland should be for ever treated with insult and injustice?—If such a system were persevered in, could they expect the friendship of Ireland? He did not say that they would not receive it, but of this he was sure, that they would not deserve it. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would reconsider the grounds of his objection, and would' be guided by the opinion of his more liberal friends.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could see no reason why the motion should be granted, embracing, as it did, a principle which would call upon every man
 259
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that the noble lord had in a great degree anticipated the observations which he intended to have made. The object in view was, to ascertain whether the act of 1793 had or had not been carried into effect. How could the House come at that fact, save by the returns which his hon. friend had moved for? The House had a right to be acquainted with the fact, whether Roman Catholics had or had not been admitted to those offices to which, by law, they might have been appointed. He had the act before him—he saw the offices to which Catholics might have been appointed. On the other hand, he had a document, under the hand of a gentleman of respectability, stating that Catholics were not admitted to any one of those offices.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that the latter part of the right hon. baronet's speech had turned upon topics, in some of which he felt with him, though he did not think the present moment exactly suited to their discussion. The last topic, as it went to show the interest which the humblest individual might feel in the question of eligibility to the highest office, and that therefore the hope of such office should not be shut out from any, was one which addressed itself to the feelings of all, and the principle of which he had often exhausted himself in upholding. But, the subject of discussion was not now, whether new privileges should be granted—whether all the offices of the state, from the highest to the lowest, should be open to Roman Catholics? On that point he perfectly agreed with the right hon. baronet. What he had always sought on behalf of the Roman Catholics had been eligibility; but, the motion now under consideration went to actual election. What he had so long contended for was, that there should be no bar between the Crown and its subjects—that there should exist no religious disqualifications; but he had never conceived that the effect of accomplishing that object would be to point the attention of the Crown to one class only, and to make it a crime in the administrators under the Crown to distribute office fairly and impartially. The advocates for the Catholic claims asserted, as a general principle, that all the king's subjects were equally eligible, but that statutes had supervened, limiting unjustly the power of the Crown to reward meritorious services. The object, therefore, was, to remove those disqualifying statutes; and as the hon. member for Westminster had said, in reference to a passage of great beauty, to enable the rays of the royal bounty to shine equally upon all. It was singular, therefore, that the right hon. baronet did not see that the mode of inquisition he wished now to be set on foot was directy contrary to the principle on which the Catholic question had been promoted, and to the usual policy of parliament on all subjects of the same nature. By the law of the land, certain persons, not Roman Catholics, could not be employed in
 264 in toto: 265
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that during the present session, endeavours had been made to shew, by details, that Ireland had been badly governed, and that the Roman Catholics were a persecuted race. Its warmest friends might, perhaps, at this moment, despair of success in bringing forward the general discussion; they might despair of inducing ministers to alleviate the miseries of Ireland, by promoting conciliation; and therefore were resolved, as far as was possible, that the House and the country should be in possession of all the information connected with the subject. For this purpose various motions had been and would hereafter be made, to shew, that the benefits intended by the law, were withheld by
 266
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it was unfortunate for the inference drawn by the hon. member for Aberdeen, that the two Roman Catholic appointments spoken of were not originally made by the English government. They were originally made by the Irish government, and in the late arrangements by the Treasury, they were continued. So that it was unfair to infer, that these were exceptions to the general rule of the Irish government. With respect to the motion before the House, he would say, that if the object was, to show that the Roman Catholics had not their fair share of patronage, the present mode was a bad one. Let the object be fairly stated; let it be shown, if it could be shown, that Roman Catholics, being in other respects equally eligible in point of qualification were excluded solely, because they were Roman Catholics, and let the  onus 261
 Mr. Agar Ellis  thought the motion ought to be acceded to by the secretary for Ireland, if it were only for his own satisfaction; for as he did not seem to know the proportion in which the offices were divided between Protestants and Roman Catholics, he ought not to refuse that which would give him correct information on the subject. It ought not to be suffered to go forth to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, that no motion tending to give them the same advantage as their Protestant fellow-subjects, in situations to which they were alike eligible, could obtain the sanction of that House.
 Mr. Goulburn  Without meaning any disrespect to the gentleman who made the statement, I must say, that it is not the fact.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it had not been his good fortune to be in the house when notice of this motion was given, and it was only by accident that he had seen it in the paper. But, as it stood there, it was by no means so detailed as the motion now submitted by the hon. gentleman; for it was there described as a "return of the names and religious persuasions of all persons connected with the general administration of justice, receipt and management of the revenue, the general manufacture and education of Ireland." He thought that every body, upon reflection, must see a sufficient reason for his refusing these returns. It would be the first time that this house, by an order of its own, had ever thought fit to call on certain bodies in the community to make a return of the religious persuasion of the various persons of whom they were composed, or of those of the officers they employed. Hon. gentlemen must be aware, that even in the case of the common population returns, which it was considered expedient to make at stated periods, an act of parliament was always passed to authorize the degree of power necessary to be exercised, in order to get such returns prepared. Yet, in a motion of this inquisitorial nature, it was thought sufficient that an hon. member should merely come down and move the returns as matter almost of course. It had, indeed, been the policy of the legislature to require, that the candidates for certain offices in the state should make a profession of faith before they were allowed to enter upon them, but such a test was never required of those who had already entered, and were in the enjoyment of offices. This would be a principle quite new to our constitution, and one which he would ever oppose. The motion called for the return, not only of grand jurors and petty jurors, but also of all persons connected with the adminis-
 255
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that though the right of the House, now that the Bank paid in specie, to call on them for a return of their notes in circulation might perhaps, be questionable, he thought it matter of great public interest, that the amount should be periodically known; as, in point of fact, the Bank issues, payable in specie or not, had an immense influence on all money transactions: and he would put it to the Bank Directors themselves, whether, in continuing to give the public such information, they would not consult their own convenience, and indeed safety: as any alarm which at any time might arise, might bring the same sort of ruin on them, as took place in 1797, and be infinitely increased, by an exaggerated idea of the amount of their notes in circulation: the effect of concealment then having been, that Paine had estimated the notes of the Bank at sixty millions, when it was found they were only nine.
 Mr. Grattan  said, that he had not brought forward his motion with more ceremony, because he really thought that, as it was only the consequence of papers already moved for by a noble lord (Althorp), it would not be resisted. He should divide the House, and not content himself with receiving merely a ministerial negative.
 Mr. Monck  said, he did not conceive the Bank was enabled by its charter to lend money on mortgages. He knew the word "pledges" was introduced; but that referred to gold and silver, and merchandize belonging to merchants, and if mortgages had been contemplated, they would, no doubt, have been introduced. Nothing could be more dangerous to the public, than for the Bank to invest its capital in mortgages. What would be the situation of the country in case of a war, if the capital of the Bank was tied up in mortgages the Bank would be coming down to that House, having invested, perhaps, twelve or thirteen millions of capital, with a statement of their distresses; they would be obliged to stop payment in money: and then we should see renewed all the evils from which we were only now recovering. If any illustration were wanted of the state of things which he was endeavouring to describe, he might advert to the failure of the country banks in 1815. Many of those banks were solvent in effects; but for those effects they were unable to get money, and thereby desolation was spread around the entire country. They now found the Bank of England exactly fol-
 241 l
 Mr. Pearse  contended, that the conduct of the Bank did not deserve the censure which had been passed upon it. The directors had not been induced to refuse the accounts, because they were afraid to produce them, but because they did not conceive it fair, or warranted by the occasion. With regard to the balances, four millions sounded high in a round sum: but the House was mistaken, if it supposed that the Bank derived such vast advantage from it. The total was made up of various small sums under sixty different heads of account; and therefore could not be productive of very great profits.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was of very great importance, that his majesty's ministers should take immediate steps to free themselves from the trammels in which they had long been held by the Bank. As the interest of money was now nearly on a level with what it was when the Bank lent a large sum to government, he hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not listen to any application for a renewal of the Bank charter, but would pay off every shilling that had been borrowed from the Bank. It would not be difficult to do that, as the 3 per cents were at par. Let the country gentlemen recollect, that the Bank were now acting as pawnbrokers on a large scale, and were lending money on estates—a system entirely contrary to the original intention of that institution. The intention was, that they should be ready, on any emergency, to discount for the public interest, for the benefit of trade and commerce. Now, I what did this body really do? They kept up discounts above the current rate of the day. They kept up the rate of discount at 4 per cent, when every where else it could be obtained at 3 per cent. He could not accede to the opinion of his hon. friend, that it was inexpedient to call for an account of the issues of Bank-notes. He thought the House ought to have before it a return of the amount of discounts effected by the Bank. He only wanted the amount of the discounts, he did not seek for the names of individuals. It was said, that this monopolizing company had given great assistance to the country, and that trade and commerce could not go on without them. But what assistance had they given? Circumstances were now changed; and, without any aid from them, trade and commerce were going on
 232 l
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he had last session moved for returns respecting this subject. He had long been perfectly satisfied, that the composition of juries ought to be left to chance; that was, that
 250
 Mr. Hume  said, that the instances stated by the right hon. gentleman were only exceptions to the general rule. He was glad the right hon. gentleman had stated the fact, because it went to shew that appointments made by the Treasury here were more likely to be regulated by a fairer standard than appointments made in Ireland. What he wished was, to have power taken out of the hands of that faction in Ireland, who were always ready to abuse it. On a former occasion he had stated in that House, that few, if any, Catholics were appointed to offices of emolument in Ireland. The right hon. secretary for Ireland had said, he was wrong; but it now turned out, that the right hon. gentleman knew nothing at all about the matter. His charge was, that the people of Ireland were irritated and offended, because the few were preferred, and the many were neglected. He would ask whether the opposition that was given to the motion, was not likely to confirm the suspicions which already existed? The right hon. gentleman had talked of inquisitorial power. Was it inquisitorial, to ask a question which would be answered voluntarily and with pleasure? He could have wished that the conscience of the right hon. gentleman had been equally tender, with respect to the various acts of oppression which he (as the organ of government, had carried into effect in lreand—acountry which suffered under more than Turkish degradation. [Hear!]. Yes, it was his firm opinion, that the Greeks
 260
 Mr. Hume  expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman had not taken some notice of the observations made by the hon. member for London. He trusted that the right hon. gentleman would give the House some information on this point on the 23rd; and that if he did not then give some prospect of having these duties reduced, some hon. member would bring forward a specific motion for their reduction. He was convinced that by taking off half the duty on French wines, tire quantity consumed would be more than doubled, and that the benefit to the revenue would in consequence be considerable. Besides, smuggling would be prevented; and by that means a sum of a million a year now expended on the preventive service, would be entirely saved to the revenue of the country.
 Mr. T. Wilson , in presenting a petition against the present high duties on foreign wines from Mr. James Warre, a wine-merchant in London, called the attention of the chancellor of the exchequer to it, as proving beyond a doubt that, in matters of revenue, two and two did not always make four. It appeared from the statement of the petitioner, that in 1801, when the duly was 8 s d l l s s d s
 Mr. George Lamb  did not mean to oppose the right hon. gentleman's motion, nor would he have risen at all, had it not been for what had just fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen. He must say, that he regarded with some jealousy these consolidation acts. They were seldom purely such. There was always some new provision which appeared so desirable, that flesh and blood could not resist introducing it. For instance, the right hon. gentleman no sooner proposed a consolidation of the jury laws, than the
 251
 Mr. Manning  said, he did not mean to oppose the hon. member's motion. The Bank had ever shown the greatest readiness to lay its affairs before the public. He had no objection whatever to the account of the public balances in the hands of the Bank, nor to the amount of the charges for managing the public debt, being produced. With respect to the returns made to the Stamp-office, which had been alluded to by the hon. mover, they would undoubtedly be continued for public purposes. The hon. member for Aberdeen had thought it quite right that the amount of the issues of Bank-notes should be laid before the House: but, surely, it was rather novel to ask for a list of bills, or to inquire into any retail transactions of a banker. If they once entered into this minute examination, he saw no mode of preventing a constant recurrence to it. The hon. mover had spoken of the large sums that were made by the Bank for the management of the public debt; at the same time that he did not deny the accuracy and promptitude with which the public business was conducted. The management of the debt was not, however, overpaid; for it should be observed, that the Bank were obliged to run the risk of forgeries in the transfer of stock. The charge for managing the public debt was exactly 7 d 234
 Sir C. Cole  stated the severe hardship which the new law imposed upon the counties in Wales. The greatest number of prisoners that he ever knew to have been in the gaol of Glamorganshire were 18. The annual average was six; and yet, under the classification of prisoners, the expense to the county would be 5000 l
 Sir E. Knatchbull  concurred entirely with the right hon. secretary, in the amendments which he proposed, and deprecated the practice of keeping prisoners
 243
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was much in favour of a consolidation of the laws relating to the impanelling of juries; although he was not at present prepared to admit the necessity of extending the qualifications of jurors.
 Sir H Parnell  said, that he thought the House should no longer delay to turn its attention to the expediency of renewing the charter of the Bank of England. Heretofore, it had been the regular custom to renew the charter several years before the existing charter had expired. The last renewal was made when the existing charter had eleven years to run: The present charter had nine years only to continue, and he felt very anxious to prevent the making of any agreement between the government and the Bank for a renewal, without a full examination of the policy of again conferring upon the Bank of England any exclusive privilege. The practice had been, for government to
 233
 Sir J. Newport  expressed his earnest hope, that some similar measure would be extended to Ireland, where the abuses on the subject were such as almost to amount to a surrender of the administration of justice into hands wholly unfit to hold it. When the measure should be brought before the House, he would take an opportunity of staling which of its provisions might be advantageously applied to Ireland. He did not believe that the same bill could be made to embrace Ireland. For many reasons, the measure must be separate. But with the local knowledge which he possessed of the great evil of the law, as it now existed in Ireland, and of the gross oppression which was the result of the lax administration even of that law, in consequence of the subordinate hands into which the administration of justice fell, and of the prejudices and local jealousies which operated to its perversion, he should not be doing his duty were he not to claim for Ireland the benefit of some similar measure.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he could very easily imagine the object of those who maintained the fitness of exclusion, and thereby kept Ireland a divided people, in resisting this motion. They wished to hoodwink the natives of England, by making them believe that the question was of small importance, because it only applied to the offices included in the act of 1793. As long as the odious distinction was preserved, the act of 1793 would be inadequate; and it was very important to show that at this moment, with very few exceptions, the Roman Catholics were not in possession of any of the advantages then
 262 263
 Lord Althorp  said, that when the House considered, that five-sixths of the people of Ireland were Catholics, and that scarcely one of them had been appointed since the year 1793 to those offices which, by the law, they were eligible to fill, they could not suppose it was the mere effect of chance. Much more fair was it to say, that it was the effect of that exclusive system which had been so long acted on in Ireland, and which had produced so many misfortunes. The right hon. gentleman had said, that he never considered the religious opinions of persons whom he appointed to offices; but, if that principle had been acted upon in Ireland, how could the House possibly account for the fact, that so very few Catholics had been appointed to offices of emolument in Ireland. The right hon. gentleman had said that the motion would, if granted, lead to the exercise of inquisitorial power. Now, there was nothing inquisitorial about it. Was it not perfectly notorious who were Catholics and who were Protestants? The object of the motion was one of considerable importance. In Ireland, the returns moved for might not be of so much importance, because there the exclusion of the Catholics was perfectly well known; but in England the fact was otherwise, and it was of great importance that those returns should be laid on the table of that House, in order to show to the people of this country the real extent of the Catholic grievances. For his own part, he was not at all aware, until he had made particular inquiries, of the small number of Catholics who had been appointed to offices of honour or of emolument in Ireland. The returns would tend to shew how few were excluded by law, and how many were excluded by prejudice. Such was
 256
 Mr. Robertson  observed, that the prosperity of the agricultural interest followed that of the commercial interest, and that unless every facility was given to the commerce of the country, the landed proprietors, though their situation was undoubtedly much more prosperous now than it had lately been, would soon be plunged into greater difficulties than they had yet experienced. If the growth of wool were, in any given year, one-tenth greater than that of an average crop, the
 268 s. s. s. d. s. d. s. s s s 269
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  deprecated the impolicy of imposing high duties on low-priced commodities. He concurred in the observations which had fallen from the hon. member, and thought the same arguments applicable to the duty on raw silk. He hoped the chancellor of the Exchequer would place that article on the same footing in which it was placed in France, by taking off the duty on importation.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  observed, that unless the chancellor of the Exchequer consented to the repeal of the duty on the importation of wool, the manufacturers in this country had come to the resolution of employing agents on the continent to wash the wool, in order to effect a reduction of the duties. The right hon. gentleman would greatly mistake the true interests of the country, if he suffered this tax to continue a year longer.
 Mr. Gordon  expressed his anxiety to offer a few observations, in answer to what had fallen from the noble lord relative to the West-India islands. He could not say that he was one of the great body of proprietors connected with those colonies who were so much the object of indiscriminate abuse, both within and without the walls of that House, but he-was to a degree interested in that important question, as he possessed some property in them. It appeared, however, that a considerable number of troops had
 283
 Mr. Wodehouse  expressed his most anxious hope, that whenever the subject of the West Indies should be introduced, it would be discussed in the most calm and temperate manner. With regard to the condition of some of the regiments stationed in the colonies, it was a subject on which he had strong private and personal feelings; but, let every hon. gentleman who heard him, recollect that what was at present his (Mr. W's) case, might, at another time, be their own. He held in his hand a list of the number of deaths in one of the regiments stationed at Bar-badoes. Since its embarkation from this country it had lost upwards of 20 officers and 500 men. Now, the circumstances under which the regiment was ordered out were these:—It was sent, not as a relief, but as a reinforcement. In consequence of the cry at home for reduction, it was forced out at an unhealthy period of the year; and to that the great mortality which it had experienced was to be attributed. Now, he would ask, whether this was not an occurrence which demanded the most serious consideration? He spoke on the subject from a communication which he had had with an hon. and gallant officer, formerly a member of that House, a man as highly respected as he was universally known—he meant sir Herbert Taylor. The hon. member for Aberdeen had thought proper to say, that those who were on his (Mr. W's) side of the House, followed their leaders without thought or consideration. He, however, for one, although he conscientiously supported his majesty's government on most occasions, had formerly expressed his opinion—an opinion which he still retained—that they bad carried the reduction of our naval and military establishments too far. He did not wish to arrogate to himself any peculiar wisdom: but unquestionably it now appeared, that his majesty's ministers thought with him; and he conceived them to be entitled to
 286
 Mr. Bernal  wished to say a few words with respect to the quartering of troops in the West Indies, although he was not sure whether that belonged to the noble lord's department or to head quarters. He knew well, however, that, when troops were sent to the West Indies, and especially to Jamaica, by an extreme error or oversight, they were not put in proper quarters, but were kept in the neighbourhood of Port Royal or Kingston, instead of being sent up the country, where the atmosphere was healthy. This was a grave consideration, and ought to be invariably attended to. Another fact was, that the troops were not sent at the proper season of the year. He perfectly agreed with the hon. general who had recently spoken, that the system of relief was not sufficient. But, there had been a system of favouritism very injurious in its character. Particular regiments, under the name of "crack regiments," had been treated with partiality. Until this system of favouritism was destroyed—until all distinctions of corps were abolished—until no difference was made between fusileers and light regiments—the existing evil would not be effectually removed. Of late years, a new practice had obtained of sending dragoons to the East Indies. Of this he approved; and it was a practice which he thought might be extended
 287
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he felt that he owed an apology to the Committee for addressing them on the present occasion, as he, was afraid he must utter sentiments which would appear quite extraordinary, and antiquated in their nature, and which could expect to meet with no sympathy in that House, and he was afraid he should almost be justified in adding, in the country at large. But it was his duty to speak his own conviction on the present important subject. There was one imperative duty on a zealous member of that House, when he saw either a deficiency, or, an excess of popular feeling; namely, to shew the people to what either must lead. This was the duty of those who were connected with his majesty's government; and it was no less the duty of those who thought they were the more faithful representatives of the popular interest. He was one of those who, in the last session of parliament, complained that England did not assume the attitude which, in the then state of Europe, became a great and mighty nation. We were able to give the law to all Europe, and we ought not to have truckled to her tyrants. As his majesty's government had, however, thought proper to decide differently—as they had left Spain to her fate—as they had declined the honour of standing in that attitude, they ought not now to saddle the
 288 289 290 291 292 293
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that the noble lord, for the purpose of rounding a period, had exaggerated what had fallen from him. He did not say that he was in the sole possession of the opinions he had expressed; and, at all events, the noble lord might have done justice to the conscientious motives which prompted that expression, even though it had been as ill-timed as he seemed to think it. He was quite satisfied, notwithstanding the ridicule which the noble lord thought his (Mr. H's.) injudicious support had thrown upon constitutional principles, that they remained unhurt by it. He was sure he had done those principles as little harm by his support, as the noble lord had done by his attack.
 Colonel Davies  thought the estimate an extravagant one, but he was still not prepared to go the full length of the motion.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he differed with his hon. friend as to the propriety of a reduction of ten thousand men. He thought he could convince his hon. friend, that the amendment was not tenable. The only reduction which he could with any chance of success, propose, would be in the amount of the proposed augmentation. His hon. friend had said, that this was a constitutional question. Undoubtedly it was a constitutional question; and so it had for years, been urged, on his side of the House to be; until at length, a reduction of the military force to that point, below which it could not with safety to the country be reduced, had taken place. The absence of hon. members could not be defended; but, undoubtedly, if their absence could be at all excused, it was on a question on which they had so often stated their sentiments, and had succeeded in reducing the military force to that standard, which, in their judgment, was necessary for the public safety. His hon. friend had said, that an hon. gentleman was not a fit juror on the present question. To him (Mr. C.), however, no objection of the kind could be made. He conceived himself a fit juror, and his verdict certainly should be against his hon. friend.
 Sir B. Martin  said, that there was less dry-rot in the navy at present than at any former period. Immersion of the wood in salt water was now practised, and the use of coal-tar discontinued. For the latter circumstance he was sorry; because he believed the use of coal-tar to be attended with good effects. It was quite certain that the dry-rot had greatly decreased since the termination of the war; and he was convinced that the ships which had been built since that period would be of longer duration than any which had been constructed before. In consequence of the allusion which had been made on a former occasion to Mr. Burridge's book on the dry-rot, he had taken the trouble to read that work through, and he did not hesitate to say that it was fallacious from the beginning to the end.
 Sir B. Martin  said, that government had contracted for both foreign and native timber, but that no stipulation had been made that it should be felled at any particular period. When the hon. member should bring the subject of the dry-rot before the House, he would show that the dry-rot had been most destructive to our shipping during the last hundred and fifty years, and that it had only begun to disappear since the conclusion of the war.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he was not at all tenacious as to the mode in which the purpose he had in view was effected: but he certainly thought, that in some way or other, provision should be made for a certain number of midshipmen; and he was convinced that no objection would be made by parliament to a vote of 5 or 6,000 l.
 Sir G. Cockburn  returned thanks as a naval officer, rather than as a member of the Admiralty board, to the hon. member, for the attention which he uniformly paid
 300
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that although of course this country could not object to the United States making any establishment they pleased upon the coast of Florida, yet that ministers, as was their duty, had kept a watchful eye upon their proceedings. Thus much he felt himself at liberty to say.
 Mr. Calcraft  begged to observe, that he thought the case of the midshipmen was a very hard one as to half-pay. "Whatever had been their services, or however they might be entitled by their skill and merit, it was often totally out of the power of the Admiralty to grant them any promotion. Now, it appeared to him, that it would be but fair and expedient, to select a certain number of midshipmen, on the principle, for example, of length of service. At present, very many in this class of officers were obliged to turn their attention to some other employment for subsistence, and thus, meritorious individuals though they might be, they were lost to the service for ever. He conceived that a certain proportion might be selected, to whom half-pay should be given (and the whole amount could be but small), as a retaining fee, whenever the country might require their services.
 Sir G. Cockburn  observed, that if he had been represented to have said what had just been imputed to him by the hon. member, he could only say, that if persons would look for information to that source which was constantly, and for the purpose, giving a wrong representation of what fell from gentlemen in that House, he was not answerable for such error. What he really did say, on a former night, was, that the masters of the navy were a most useful set of men. It was then observed to him, that originally, every master who chose it, and was judged sufficiently qualified, might rise to the rank of lieutenant; but that that sort of promotion was now put a stop to. His answer had been, that masters could still be promoted, and were now occasionally promoted; and that at one time only, an interval of two years, occurring about 20 years since, had this rule been interrupted. That with regard to other persons rising to be masters, and he meant seamen of course, no other restriction was imposed upon their promotion, but their sustaining a very strict examination as to ability. This was what he had stated at the time; and if he had been wrongly reported, as he generally was, it was no fault of his.
 Mr. H. Sumner  presented a petition, against the Coal Duties, from Bermondsey. He expressed his concurrence in the prayer of the Petitioners, and trusted that the chancellor of the Exchequer would take the subject into his serious consideration.
 Mr. Bright  considered the naval establishment in Bermuda of the utmost importance, and he had some doubts whether ministers were about to ask for money enough to continue the works. It would be thirteen or fourteen years' before they would be completed; and as in the event of war, the island might be easily taken, it was very material that as soon as possible it should be put in a state of defence. He begged to inquire if ministers had done any thing with regard to the settlements made by the United States in the South of Florida? He did not desire, however, that any inconvenient disclosures on the subject should be made.
 General Gascoyne  warmly opposed the amendment. Considering the increase which this country had made of colonial territory, he had long been satisfied that our army had been too much reduced; and he believed that his majesty's government were now as thoroughly convinced of that fact as he was. One of the evil consequences attendant on this excessive reduction was, that it was impossible to relieve our brave regiments abroad as
 284 285
 Mr. Brogden , the chairman of the committee, thought, that unless a specific motion, either for a reduction of expense or of force was made, the hon. member should reserve his general proposition to be made in the House.
 Mr. Hume  was aware of the difficulty, but to obviate it he should move, that after the word "That," in the original resolution, all the succeeding words should be omitted, and his amendment substituted.
 Mr. Hume  said, if the House were to be influenced by the speech of the noble lord, they would suppose that his motion was to be granted as a matter of course. It appeared to him, that the reasons assigned by the noble lord for the proposed increase, were any thing but satisfactory. The noble lord seemed to think, that because in the course of the last year, the House of Commons on account of the then disturbed appearance of Europe, had waived opposition to the votes, that they admitted the necessity of maintaining 69,000 men; which was the force of last year. Two years ago, when the House addressed his majesty, on the subject of reducing the establishments to the lowest possible state, the government said then, as they said now, that it was impossible to make any further reductions. However they did, in the course of the following recess, make arrangements for reducing 10 or 12,000 men. Last year ministers were allowed to pass their own votes, because no one could say how soon the peace of this country might be disturbed
 275 l. 276 277 l l l 278 l. l 279 280 281 l 282
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he could not vouch for the truth of all that Mr. Bur-ridge had advanced, but there certainly were some of his statements which deserved to be seriously considered, and he intended to bring them under the notice of the House at a future period. He wished to receive information on two other points; namely, whether the U6e of foreign timber had been abandoned in ship-
 298
 Mr. Hume  took that opportunity of calling the attention of the hon. baronet to a subject which was connected with the vote before the committee. He un-
 297
 Mr. Hume  said, that the only opposition to his amendment had been made on the part of military men, and whoever expected that military men would support a reduction of the army? He could not but regret that the constitutional jealousy which had formerly prevailed against a standing army seemed to have altogether
 296
 Mr. Hume  begged to know, whether any remedy had been discovered, and what had been the result of the recent experiments to put a stop to the progress of the dry-rot in the navy?
 Mr. Hume  asked, whether any other report had been made?
 Mr. Hume  wished to be informed whether any persons had been sent out to Bermuda to report on the extensive works going on there, and if so, what had been the result?
 Mr. Hume .—Did the same regulation as to packets exist at the end of the American war?
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, as to the naval officers on half-pay in general, whether they were in the same situation now as they were after the American war—whether, for instance, a lieutenant or other officer could command, or take any situation, in merchant vessels, and under what limitation, without running the hazard of losing his commission?
 Mr. Hume  said, he had seen no report of the hon. and gallant officer's speech; but such had been his understanding.
 Mr. Hume .—I understand that very considerable fees are taken on the leave granted.
 Mr. Hume .—This is a great hardship on the officers of the navy, and should be done away with. There was a return some time ago, of 19,000 l. 301
 Mr. T. Wilson , in rising to present a petition against the Wool Tax, said, he regretted that he was obliged to occupy the time of the House on such subjects; but, while such impolitic and oppressive taxes remained, the House would of necessity be continually besieged with petitions against it. The duty of 6 d.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  presented a similar petition from Exeter. He observed, that the inhabitants of that city had always shewn themselves most ready to bear the necessary burthens which were imposed on them, but they felt most strongly on the subject of this tax. The great hardship of this tax was, that it pressed with increased severity on those who were already exposed to the greatest difficulties from their local position.
 Mr. W. Smith  presented a similar petition from Norwich. The inhabitants of that city did not deny that they were in a state of great prosperity. The population of that city had increased from 30,000 to 50,000, within the last twenty years; but they felt the harshness of a tax, which had been justly the subject of complaint throughout the whole kingdom.
 Sir G. Clerk  having moved, "That 57,670 l. s.
 Sir G. Clerk  contended, that the workmen had no just ground of dissatisfaction. Until about a year ago the quantity of work had been reduced, instead of diminishing the wages or discharging the men; but the system had been recently changed, and a general reduction of 20 per cent in the price of labour had been effected.
 Sir G. Clerk .—A fee is taken.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that a lieutenant might command a merchant vessel, with the leave of the Admiralty. The leave of the Admiralty was necessary; because, by the regulations of the half-pay, which had existed ever since the reign of Geo. 2nd, the officers of the navy on half-pay were obliged to reside at a sea port; but the leave was freely granted, with the exception of the command of small packets where hire was taken for passengers; which was thought to be below the dignity of an officer holding the rank of lieutenant in the navy.
 Sir G. Clerk .—Exactly the same.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the subject was one of great importance, and had occupied the attention of the Admiralty; but there were many difficulties in the way of it, and he was sure that the particular mode suggested by the hon. member could not be adopted. He might add, that many promotions had of late been made by the Admiralty to lieutenancies, on the ground of length of service alone, and that in this way all the midshipmen had been promoted who had passed examination down to the year 1814.
 Sir G. Clerk  answered, that Mr. Jessop had been sent out, and that he had given a very favourable report of the place, as a station for shipping.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that the report of Mr. Jessop was so satisfactory, and he was a man of so much skill and knowledge, that no other information was needed.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  said, that the answers to the numerous inquiries he had made upon the subject showed, that the durability of timber was much greater if it were felled in the winter, when the sap was down, than in the spring when it was rising, or in the summer, when it was up.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  called the attention of the House to the circumstances under which this tax had been imposed. They would all recollect, that, in the year 1819, when the country was in a state of pro-
 270 s. d.
 Sir T. Acland  presented several petitions to the same effect, from various towns in Devonshire. The petitioners complained of the tax as unequal, impolitic, and oppressive. As this was the last opportunity he should have of noticing this subject before the chancellor of the Exchequer made his financial statement, he would take the liberty of pressing, most strongly upon the right hon. gentleman, the expediency of taking off, either the whole, or a part of this tax. He concurred in the observation of the hon member for Exeter, that one of the most aggravating circumstances attending this tax was,
 271 s., s.
 Sir W. De Crespigny  recommended moderation, on the subject of the West-India colonies.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that as far as he had been able to collect the opinion of the House, the hon. members for Westminster and Aberdeen were the only gentlemen who intended to oppose the vote; it was therefore unnecessary for him to enter further into the discussion, than to answer some of the objections which they had raised. In the first place, the hon. member for Aberdeen had seemed to consider the reinforcements for the West-India service necessary; for although he had in the early part of his speech denied this, he had afterwards conceded it. But he had said, that he consented to the estimates of the last year, only because it was then expected that the country might be engaged in a war, and that but for that probability he would have proposed a reduction to the amount of 10,000 men. The hon. gentleman might, perhaps, allude to an opinion entertained by himself and his friends; but the noble lord said, he felt it necessary, on his own part, to declare, that such an expectation formed no part of the grounds on which he had solicited the vote of last year. On the contrary, the government had then declared its resolution of remaining strictly neutral, and he could not believe that the House had been induced to agree to the vote for any such reason: he was quite sure that none such had been proposed by him. What were the means by which the hon. gentleman would have the reduction, which he recommended effected? Why, he was of opinion, that if certain measures were adopted the military force at present in Ireland might be withdrawn and applied to the reinforcement of the colonial service. Now, did any man in his senses believe, that if the Catholic question were set at rest to-morrow, it would have such a magic effect upon Ireland, that the force employed there might be safely removed at once—The hon. member had next proposed, that a reduction should be made in the cavalry and the guards. He (lord P.) was prepared to contend, that there was not a larger number of men in those regiments than was fairly proportioned to the infantry of the line; and that it was impossible to reduce them without also reducing the efficiency of that establishment, which even in time of peace, it was necessary to keep up, that armies might be
 294 295
 Lord Palmerston  rose to submit to the House a statement of the Army Estimates for the present year. He commenced by saying that any gentleman who had looked into these Estimates, must see that there had been an augmentation of our military force, and an attendant increase of charge. In the first place, he should state, that there were six new regiments to be added to the force of last year, besides 200 men to be added to each of the three veteran battalions, making an augmentation of 4,560 men officers included. There would be an attendant increase of charge of 158.000 l. l. l. 272 273 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l l. l l.; l. l.; l. l 274 l l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that, according to the computation of the right hon. gentleman, the surplus of the revenue in the year 1823, amounted to 1,710, 985 l l l In toto 344 l l 345
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he fully concurred in all the eulogiums that had been so deservedly pronounced upon the noble lord for this very useful measure: but he wished to call the attention of the noble lord to two alterations which were entitled to his consideration. It was true, that they would more especially affect his own constituents and the city of London. The first amendment he would suggest, related to the alteration respecting the statute of limitation from six years to two; and he should propose, that creditors should have the power to renew their demand at the end of every two years, by filing an affidavit at a small expense. In London and Westminster, where the persons who dealt with tradesmen frequently left their residence, those tradesmen would be subject to frequent losses if this were not done. The House was probably not aware that there was a society in Westminster, of tradesmen, who kept an account of the residences of different people who owed money to them, where information could be procured; and he had been informed by one of the leading persons of that society, that they had upon their list at that moment no less than 2,000 persons whose residence they did not know; but the majority of whom were considered good paymasters, if they could be found. The House would therefore see, that, under such circumstances, these small debts would be irrecoverably lost. The second point would be, to give the debtor the privilege of suing, not at the residence of the debtor, for it would be impossible that they could follow people for small debts to York, and Lancaster, and Gloucester, and so on. He should not expect an answer from the noble lord at present, but he considered these two points of such importance, that he wished to take that opportunity of impressing them upon the attention of the noble lord; for, notwith-
 304
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to make his promised Expose of the Financial Situation of the Country; and addressed the Committee as follows: * * 305 l l l l l 
 
 The Customs, I take at £.11,550,000 
 The Excise, at 25,625,000 
 The Stamps, at 6,800,000 
 The Taxes, including the Land and Assessed Taxes, at 5,100,000 
 The Post Office, at 1,460,000 
 The Miscellaneous, comprehending many minute sources of income with which it is unnecessary at present to trouble the Committee, at 730,000 
 The remaining payments of the Austrian Loan, at 1,500,000 
 The payments on account of the Half-pay and Pensions' annuity, at 4,620,000 
 Making a total of £.57,385,000 
 
 First, there is the charge on the Consolidated Fund for those permanent expenses which do not depend on the annual votes of the House of Commons; namely, the interest and management of the Public debt, amounting to £.27,973,196 306 
 
 The interest upon that class of Exchequer Bills which are commonly called Deficiency Bills, amounting to 100,000 
 The annual and permanent charges on the Consolidated Fund for the Civil List, Parliamentary Pensions, &c. amounting to 2,050,000 
 The Half-pay Annuities, amounting to 2,800,000 
 And the Sinking Fund, amounting 5,134,458 
 Making a total of permanent Expenditure of £.38,057,654 
 If to that we add the Supplies of the year,  viz. 1,050,000 
 Army 7,440,945 
 Navy 5,762,893 
 Ordnance 1,410,044 
 And Miscellaneous 2,611,388 
 We shall find that the whole will amount to £.56,332,924 l l l l l 307 l l l l l l l 308 309 310 l l l l l l 311 l l 312 l l l l l l l l l l 313 l l l l l l l l l 314 l 315 l l l l 316 l * * 317 l l l 318 l l l l l l l 319 l l 320 l l l l l l l 321 l 322 l 323 l l l l l. l 324 325 must l 326 327 l l 328 329 l 330 argumentum ad hominem 331 332 progenies vitiosor Nemo repenté fuit turpissimus. 333 334 ad valorem. ad valorem. l 
 
 Rum £.150,000 
 Coals 100,000 
 Wool 350,000 
 Silk 462,000 
 £.1,062,000 l l l, l 335 336 337
 Mr. Baring , in rising to offer a few observations to the House, said, he could not but in the first place confess, that he had never heard, and he believed there never had been made of late years, so gratifying a statement as that which the House had just heard from the right hon. gentleman. The facts upon which that statement was founded had, no doubt, been most maturely considered, and without a sufficient opportunity for examining the several particulars of which it was composed, it would be very presumptuous in any man to give a hasty opinion upon a topic which was, in every point of view, so truly important. He must, however, at the same time that he cheerfully bore testimony to the satisfactory tenour of the right hon. gentleman's speech, and of the intentions of the government which it expressed, avail himself of this opportunity of stating, that several of the questions which the speech involved, and particularly that which had been last treated of, required the most earnest attention that could be bestowed upon it by parliament. There were one or two points, the prominent nature of which struck him very forcibly, and to which he should now proceed to call the attention of the committee. In the first place, the right hon. gentleman's plan of finance seemed to him to want that certainty in the results, which it was supposed would attend it, and without which no plan of finance could be relied upon, or ought to be entertained. He had no doubt that the intention of the plan was, to preserve the credit of the nation in the best possible manner. It might be, that the multiplicity of its details, rather than any want of clearness in them, had prevented him from accurately comprehending the whole of its bearing; but, as far as he had been able to understand it, it seemed that the supposed increase was hardly to be calculated upon, from the grounds proposed by the right
 338 l l l l l l l l l l 339 l l 340 341
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought he had already explained fully the plan by which he meant to effect the reduction he had proposed; but as the hon. gentleman had not comprehended him entirely, he must have failed in that intention. It would be observed, that in the calculation he had made of the produce of the last year, although he had taken the surplus at its actual amount, he had not-estimated any increase of revenue on account of the reduction. In the Customs, also, he had assumed no addition on account of the progressive increase which might be reasonably expected. Nor had he, with respect to the assessed taxes, calculated upon any improvement in those which remained. He had made no such prospective calculation, nor had he, on the other hand, allowed for any increase of expenditure for the ensuing four years, trusting that the addition thereby to be incurred would be supplied by the natural decrement which might be expected to occur in that period. If by any accident not now to be foreseen, that event should happen which would necessarily overturn all calculations—he meant a war, the Government then must rely upon the public spirit of the country to enable them to meet the expenses which it would bring with it. If, however, the tranquillity which at present prevailed should continue, the calculations which he had made would be found, he trusted, quite correct; and, at the end of the time to which they reached, the parliament would be enabled to judge of the operation of this improved system. If any deficiency were then
 342
 Mr. Baring  said, he had not at all misunderstood the right hon. gentleman. He thought that the country would be placed in a very dangerous situation, if a war were to break out previous to October, and it were then called upon to pay twenty-five millions. Instead of keeping up a large floating debt as the right hon. gentleman proposed to do, it would be better to employ the money as a sinking fund to purchase the 3 per cents above 90 l
 Mr. Alderman Wood  presented a petition signed by between 3,000 and 4,000 inhabitants of the city of London, against the unequal and unjust tax upon coals. He had already said so much upon the subject, that he should now only observe, that if these duties were not in the number of those which the chancellor of the
 302
 Mr. Baring  said, that when the worthy alderman moved for the committee, he hoped it would be with a view of inquiring into the whole subject, as well the tax which was paid to the king as that augmentation of the price of coals which resulted from city management, and which, from the debates in the common council, he was led to believe amounted, by the charge of metage and the city regulations, to between 4 s s
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, the hon. member for Taunton had swelled the charge of metage, which was but 4 d s s
 Mr. Baring  observed, that he had not said, that the duties of metage amounted to 4 s s s s
 Mr. Grenfell  said, it was a little too much, when petitions were pouring in from all parts of the country against these duties, for the hon. member for Staffordshire to rise and declare his opposition, because it would interfere with the interests of his constituents; as if the interests of the collieries of Staffordshire and Newcastle were to be every thing, and the interests of the consumers nothing.
 Mr. Robertson  expressed his satisfaction at the course pursued by the chancellor of the Exchequer, which was calculated to give employment to the people of the country, to increase the general consumption, and to improve the commerce, so essentially interwoven with our prosperity as a nation. The taxes selected for reduction had this obvious tendency; and yet the hon. gentlemen on the other side talked as if they had never looked beyond the present hour, notwithstanding the lessons of experience so often placed before them. It was impossible to conceive that circumstances might not arise which would make it the interest of America to oppose this country. Suppose us to be plunged into a war with that or with any other state, the Sinking Fund was not at present in the condition in which it ought to be on the breaking out of a war. It was by protecting that sinking fund, and not by speculating on it, that we should be prepared for any emergency, and give the best excitement to the commercial interest of the country. It was to that fund we owed the keeping down of the rate of interest. And, not only was it calculated, in the various modes of its operation, to excite the commerce and industry of Great Britain, but it had a greater tendency to force capital into Ireland, than all the plans that had been devised on the subject. He therefore concurred in the view which the chancellor of the Exchequer had taken of the subject.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, he rose merely to express his opinion on the expediency of suffering the salt-duty to expire. If the duty were intirely off, afar greater quantity would be used for the purposes of
 366
 Mr. Baring  wished to know from the chancellor of the Exchequer what arrangements he had made for paying off the twenty-five million which the government was bound to pay in October? It was to be presumed, that he had his machinery prepared for raising the loan that would be required.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the sum would be raised by loan or Exchequer bills; but the mode would depend, in a great measure, on the amount which would be necessary to pay off the dissentients.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would answer the different questions put to him by hon. members as distinctly as he could, and in the order in which they had been proposed. In answer to what had fallen from the hon. member for Coventry respecting the time when the reduction of the duty on silk was to take effect, his idea was, that the reduction should commence on the 5th of July next. He conceived that the interval between the present time and that period, would be sufficiently long to enable those who had large stocks on hand to dispose of them. At the same time, he felt it necessary to state, that he should not consider himself bound to commence the reduction at that particular time, if, from the representations of the parties interested, it should appear to him to be desirable to postpone the reduction to a later period. His chief de-
 346 l
 Mr. Calcraft  felt, as no doubt the country at large would feel, much obliged to his hon. friend for having called the attention of parliament to the oppressions caused by the law taxes, to which suitors at law or in equity were subject. They were of a character the most odious and oppressive, and were among the very first evils, of taxation, which the people of this country had a right to expect would be now done away with. But he particularly wished to ask the right hon. gentleman what was meant to be done about the repeal of the present duty on salt? The right hon. gentleman had said nothing upon this point that was direct; but had merely thrown out an observation or two upon the increasing amount of the duty. At the same time, the pledge, the solemn engagement that parliament was under to the people was not to be for a moment for-
 351 352 l l 353 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no person was more convinced of the truth of the last assertion made by the hon. gentleman, or had more frequently urged the same consideration on the House. As to the different items which
 354
 Mr. Ellice  said, he was happy to find that the right hon. gentleman was willing to grant the persons interested in the silk-manufacture, time to make those arrangements which the proposed reduction of the duty rendered necessary. An hon. member had asked, how the chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to pay off a third of the 4 per cents in October? Now, he (Mr. E.) thought that the right hon. gentleman had very clearly stated how that operation would be performed. There was to be no selection, but each person was to be paid off  pro rata 347
 Mr. Ellice  rose to ask the right hon. gentleman a question referring to a particular subject, in which, from his situation as the representative of one of the greatest silk-manufacturing towns in the kingdom, he felt peculiarly interested. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that he intended to reduce the duty on silks immediately. Now, he was afraid, that if the right hon. gentleman carried his resolution into effect, it would occasion the greatest inconvenience and distress amongst the silk-manufacturing population. He perfectly agreed with the right hon. gentleman in the expediency of ultimately reducing the duty; but he protested against any great and sudden reduction which would materially affect the stock on hand. The right hon. gentleman must be fully aware, that the duty on silk amounted to a heavy percentage on the value of the article. There had been made very large sales of silk recently, and some even during the last week; the purchasers upon those occasions would experience a very great loss, if the proposed reduction were suddenly to take place. And, not only would the purchasers of the raw material suffer, but all those persons who had a large stock of manufactured goods on hand. It would be peculiarly unfortunate if the reduction should take place at the present season; because a large stock of goods had just been manufactured for the spring consumption. Under these circumstances, he hoped the right hon. gentleman would declare publicly, that he would consent to postpone the reduction of the duty to some period when it would less seriously affect the owners of the raw article, and the manufacturers who had a large stock on hand. He trusted, at least, that before the right hon. gentleman
 343
 Mr. Littleton  said, he had not stated, that he would oppose the repeal of the tax without qualification; but had merely stated, that he would oppose the measure, unless the repeal was attempted in the most gradual manner.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that when the time should come that this tax should be proposed for repeal, it would meet with his most decided opposition, unless it were a repeal of the most gradual nature.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  declared himself ready to avow at present, as he had often before done, that the persons who had changed the currency were those who had committed the robbery. Never was there a measure fraught with so much mischief and fraud as that to which he had just alluded; nor would it be a justification of the conduct of parliament, that because at one period they had robbed the creditor, at another they should rob the debtor. Under this system many persons had been reduced to beggary, not by any fault of their own—not by any of the accidents or misfortunes of life—but by an act of the government itself. It was true, that in many respects, the situation of the country appeared to have improved since the years 1817 and 1818; but it was not to be inferred from thence that we were in a prosperous condition. If the poor-rates had decreased in many parishes, there were few
 365 l
 Mr. Brougham  said, he fully agreed with his hon. friend near him, in thinking that the House and the country had a right to feel disappointment at the financial project just proposed by the right hon. gentleman opposite. But, before he went any further he was most anxious to guard himself against being misunderstood. He begged to assure the right hon. gentleman, that in using the word "project," he meant not to treat with the slightest disrespect the very sound and enlightened statement which he had made to the committee. He gave the right hon. gentleman every credit for his sound and enlightened views upon the different topics alluded to in his speech; but, as many of them had been heard by
 355 l 356 l 357 358 s d s d d l 359 l l 360
 Mr. John Smith  said, he gave the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer full credit for having given this great and important subject his most serious and attentive consideration, but there was still one weighty and oppressive tax which seemed to have escaped his attention; and upon that ground it was, that he felt it necessary to obtrude himself upon the attention of the committee. The tax to which he alluded was the tax upon law proceedings; or, as it might be fairly called, the tax upon justice. Recent circumstances had induced him to inquire more minutely into the law taxes, which were to be met with at every step, in our different courts of justice, and he felt convinced, that many gentlemen around him were not at all aware of the exorbitant amount to which they extended; or of the injurious effects which they produced upon the peace, the morals and the happiness of a great proportion of the people. For instance, in order to recover a debt of from 3 l l l l 348 l 349 l l 350 l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, he was glad of an opportunity of expressing his satisfaction at a great portion of the statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer. The right
 361 s s 362 s 363 364
 Mr. Hume  said, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had calculated the average expenditure for the next four years, on the present scale of 73,041 regulars, and if the present report were agreed to, there would be no reduction for four years to come. At any rate, there were no circumstances to authorize the continuance of so large a force. The same reasons which were urged by the chancellor of the Exchequer, for a small reduction of taxation would justify a much larger reduction. There was no other means than this of giving relief to the country; and if the expenditure were not much more diminished, there would be little or no good done. The House were now to be called on to vote 73,000 regulars with 19,000 veterans, artillery and marines, making a total of 92,000 men, not 3,000 of which were at any time out of the country. Thus there were 92,000 men embodied at an expense of more than six millions a year. He remembered that in 1817, lord Castlereagh had admitted that seven millions was an extravagant vote; and he only asked it for that year on account of the disturbed state of the country. But the noble lord had then stated, that no less a sum than four
 367 368
 Sir J. Coffin  expressed his pleasure at finding that the country would soon be relieved altogether from the burthen of the salt-tax; for it was, with respect to the poor, a most oppressive duty.
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, he rose for the purpose of putting a question to the right hon. gentleman, which affected the interests of his constituents. He wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman intended to allow coals to be brought up by the Grand Junction canal to London, and what was the exact amount of duty they were to be subjected to? He would also put another question to the right hon. gentleman with respect to the four per cents. He understood the right hon. gentleman to say, that an instalment of one-third of the amount of the four per cents was to be paid in October, and the other two-thirds at a fit time. There were, therefore, 25 millions to be paid in October. Now, he wished the right hon. gentleman to explain, in what manner the persons who would be entitled to the first instalment were to be selected from the other holders.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, it was important that the whole subject should be inquired into, embracing the mode of delivery, both at Newcastle and London. Much blame had been thrown on the coal-owners in the north; but he would deny that they merited it. It was stated,
 303
 Lord Althorp  having brought in his bill, "for preventing delays and expenses in the Proceedings of County Courts, and for the more easy and speedy recovery of Small Debts,"
 Lord Palmerston  said, that this question had been so fully discussed on a former night, that he should not trouble the House with re-arguing it. He rose for the purpose of setting right an error in the hon. member's comparative estimate of the year 1817 and the present year. He seemed to think, that the estimate of the former year was less than the present, when in fact we had, in 1817, 107,000 men, at an expense of 6,664,000 l
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that in rising to offer a few observations upon the hon. and learned gentleman's motion, he was fully aware of his total inability to follow him through the various details into which he had gone. He should therefore leave it to his hon. and learned friends near him, if they so thought fit, to enter into the legal points upon which the hon. and learned gentleman had touched; and to account, if they could account, for the delays which had taken place in cases with which they were not acquainted. But, in his view of the case, it was not necessary to enter into all those details in order to form a competent judgment upon the question [hear, hear! from the Opposition]; or if it was necessary to enter into such details, then a due notice ought to have been given, in order that gentlemen might have come prepared to enter fully into an inquiry of the cases quoted. But, as this was a subject which had for some time occupied the attention of the king's government, he thought it right to put the House in possession of the views which his majesty's ministers entertained upon it. And, in doing this, he begged to assure the noble lord, by whom he had been already irregularly interrupted [hear, hear! from the Opposition benches; but we know not to what noble lord the right hon. Secretary alluded], he assured that noble lord, that
 404 405 à priori, 406 407 l l l l l l l l 408 409 410 411 argumentum ad hominem 412 413 414 l 415 l l 416 s 6d. s 6d. "E'en his failings leaned to virtue's side;" 417 418
 Mr. Secretary Canning  observed, that after the recommendation with which the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, had concluded his speech, it was not his intention to trespass long upon the time and patience of the House. But, as the speeches of two of the hon. and learned members who had followed his right hon. colleague, the secretary for the home department, appeared to turn almost entirely upon the effectiveness and sincerity of the proposed commission, he thought that it would be satisfactory not only to the House, but also to the country at large, to have an assurance, not only on the part of the noble lord who was thought to be most interested in this question, but also on the part of others of his majesty's ministers,—an assurance which, for his own part, he most willingly gave,—that the inquiry into which that commission was to enter should be as sincere, as impartial, and as effectual as it was possible for man to make it. Even if any disposition existed to trifle with so important a subject, hon. gentlemen must be aware, that no government, in the present enlightened state of the age, could, after consenting to institute an inquiry conduct it in such a manner as to prevent it from arriving at a salutary and beneficial result. He, therefore, was of opinion, that to anticipate a satisfactory and auspicious conclusion to the labours of the commission, would be more consistent with candour and good feeling, than to augur nothing but disappointment, mockery, and deception. The points into which the commission would be more particularly instructed to inquire would be; first, whether it was possible to lessen the time consumed; and secondly, whether it would be possible to lessen the expense incurred, by suits in equity. The third point, which was, perhaps, the most important of all, would be, whether any portion of the business now discharged by the lord chancellor of England, could, without detriment to the public, be turned over to any other; and if to any other, to what public officer? These points would form the principal subjects into which the commission would have to examine; and he now stated them, not with any view of giving an opinion as to the results at which it was probable that the commission might arrive, but with a view of assuring the House, that into each and all of them, examination would be instituted in a spirit of most perfect sincerity, and with the
 430 431 432 433 434
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he would readily answer the hon. member if it were possible. Only a short time ago this subject had attracted his attention, and he had looked into the acts and treaties relative to it. But, after doing so, he was not prepared to say how far there was a possibility of executing the purpose to which the hon. member had alluded.
 Mr. Baring  said, that the engagement, relative to this loan, was a contingent engagement. The debt had not been contracted, as was stated by his hon. friend to make war on this country; but for a purpose which he probably would approve of as little. It was money, borrowed by the empress Catherine, for the subjugation of Poland. Russia had a number of old out-standing debts in Holland, and we had undertaken to pay one quarter, and the Government of Holland had undertaken to pay another, on the contingency of Belgium remaining attached to the Netherlands.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that hitherto the loan to the emperor of Austria had been kept separately from the other 3 per cent consolidated annuities. As, however, a treaty had been entered into to annul the liability of Austria for this debt, in consideration of an advance of 2½ millions, it would not be necessary to continue this arrangement any longer. If the committee, therefore, sanctioned the terms of this convention, the distinction between this and the other parts of the public debt would cease, and the Imperial annuities would be consolidated with the other 3 per cents. He would now move, 1. "That the sum of £.2,500,000 having been agreed to be paid by the emperor of Austria in full discharge of
 439 l l
 Mr. Herries  replied, that by the papers on the table, the character in which the contractors stood towards the Government would be seen, and it would be made manifest, that government did not negociate with them as parties proposing to advance a loan to this country. In offering the terms agreed to, they had acted as the representatives of the emperor of Austria, for the payment of such a sum as he was disposed to grant. The rate of discount, in case of the immediate advance of the whole sum, was as much a part of the original contract as the amount of the contribution itself. They submitted certain conditions to the Treasury, of which this rate of discount was one, and Government had no option, but to accept or reject the whole. It was not in the power of the Treasury to give less than 5 per cent, as the contractors would not receive
 440
 Mr. Baring  said, that as he was one of the parties interested in the loan, he might venture on an explanation without taking any part in the decision which the House might come to with regard to it. He was independent of any opinion which the House might form as to a bargain made with the emperor of Austria. It was their, the contractors, business to attend to the price of the Austrian funds when the bargain was made. The question had two
 441 l
 Mr. Secretary Canning  bought the hon. gentleman opposite had put a wrong construction on this transaction. Before the treaty was finally concluded, it was necessary to look to the means of payment, and this depended on the facility Austria had of borrowing, which again depended on her credit, the same as it did with all other powers, in the English market. It became the government, therefore, to consider on what terms the sum could be procured in our market. The gentlemen who had contracted to pay it, stood between Austria and England; and it was for this government to consider if the terms they offered were equivalent to the Austrian stock to be given. They had refused to give any larger sum. In agreeing to pay this sum they had made certain conditions; and it was only for the Treasury to accept those conditions, or altogether reject the payment. It was part of the original agreement, in which these gentlemen undertook to pay us so much money, on receiving a certain quantity of Austrian stock, that they should receive discount.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that the information which the hon. gentleman wished to obtain was to be found in a long course of correspondence contained in the archives of the foreign office. He did not wish to take credit to himself for what was almost concluded before he came into office; nor was he willing to incur responsibility for a measure which whatever its merits or defects might be, was chief-
 443
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied,
 442
 Mr. Ellice  said, he had a petition to present, which was the natural consequence of some of the statements of the chancellor of the Exchequer last night. It was signed by all, or at least nearly all, the considerable silk manufacturers of the City of London, imploring the House to consider their situation before they carried into effect the plan of the right hon. gentleman. The petitioners stated, "that they have learnt with the utmost surprise, by the reports of the proceedings of the House, that it has been proposed to adopt so important a measure as that of a reduction of from 5 s d d Italian China s d Bengal s d s d Italian 372
 Mr. Bright  expressed his regret, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had not afforded more effectual relief to the public, by the repeal of taxes which were not only oppressive and impolitic in a financial point of view, but most injurious to the morals of the people. The right hon. gentleman had described most eloquently last night the progress of immorality, commencing in an invasion of the revenue Jaws, and ending in the commission of the most atrocious crimes. His description was most eloquent and ingenious; but why had not the right hon. gentleman applied his own principle to the repeal of a tax, which was perhaps a more fertile source of crime than any other branch of, the revenue? The, duties on tobacco amounted to 1,000 l 370
 Mr. Brougham  said, he wished to state the reasons why he was disposed to approve of the withdrawing of the motion. If he thought by that step the House would part, with that most constitutional mode of inquiry into abuses of the description of those which had been brought under its notice—he meant the exercise of the inquisitorial functions of that House—he would not only express his disapprobation of the
 424 425 426 427 428
 Mr. Brougham  explained, that the right honourable gentleman had misunderstood him, in supposing that he had suggested that the courts of common law should be included in the investigation of the commission about to be appointed. On the contrary, he had suggested, that a simultaneous inquiry, by another commission, should take place into the state of those courts.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that he would not have presented himself to the notice of the House, but for some observations which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He begged to offer his sincere congratulations to his hon. and learned friend upon the success I which had attended his efforts; but the congratulations which he wished to offer to the public must, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. secretary, be subject to some qualifications. The right hon. gentleman had said, that it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to have proposed the appointment of a commission, whether the present motion had been brought forward or not. That declaration having been made, he was bound to give credit to it; but he was sure that the public would attribute the institution of any inquiry into the proceedings, of the court of chancery, with a view to their amelioration, to the un-
 419 420 421 422 423
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he wished to
 371
 Mr. Lockhart  suggested to the hon. and learned member for Lincoln, that it would be advisable to withdraw the motion for the appointment of a committee, as such a proceeding would not preclude the House from again considering the question at a future period, if it should be thought proper so to do. He however, thought it would be improper to let the lord chancellor have the nomination of the commission.
 Mr. Warre  said, he should like to see the Austrian state paper, in which the emperor acknowledging a debt of twenty millions, had the assurance to propose a composition of two and a half millions. He recollected that when the hon. member for Buckinghamshire (Mr. Smith) brought forward a motion on the subject, the late lord Londonderry, in his peculiar manner, had treated the matter with great indifference, and said that "if we were to turn the whole country inside out, we could get nothing." The right hon. gentleman had been more successful; but what was two and a half millions for art original principal sum of six millions, and its accumulations, for which Mr. Pitt had said we could sue the emperor in his own court? The Austrian finances were said to have acquired such a degree of elasticity from his payment, that there was no knowing to what beneficial results their integrity might lead. He wished to see the state paper in which the emperor of Austria, who had been described as a man of such strict honour and fine feeling, was good enough to offer the payment of half-a-crown in the pound, as a fair liquidation of his debt to this country.
 Mr. J. Williams  said, that in rising to bring forward the motion to which he was about, on this second occasion, to call the attention of parliament, he must observe, that if he thought it could be expected of him that he should produce some plan, on the successful operation of which it became him to pronounce a confident opinion, he could assure the House, with great sincerity, that he would have withdrawn from the undertaking; because, when the extent of the subject was considered, and the period of time during which the evils of the system had been suffered to accumulate, he should look upon that man as rather bold than wise who would attempt to produce a specific remedy applicable to so complex a case. Indeed, the motion which he was about to lay before the House, and the observations he should feel it his duty to submit in support of that motion, rested on a principle directly the reverse. His complaint was, that too much had already been done on the subject of the court of chancery, with too little investigation and inquiry to warrant it. It had been a matter of surprise to him, and a cause of regret to the country, that so far back as eleven years ago, a measure of legislation had passed that House on the subject which he was about to introduce, without any distinct inquiry having been instituted; and he need not remind gentlemen, that now, in another House, a measure was to be found, not in contemplation, but in the actual course of adoption—which measure exposed to the people, in all its nakedness, the harsh and presumptuous proposition, that members of one House, because they were such, were competent to judge of abstract points of law. And it was a question, whether that measure did not nearly affect the constitution of the highest court of this country. If it did, then he said, that the House of Commons ought to exercise a most vigilant superintendance over that measure, instead of remaining tranquil and idle spectators of its effects. Such was not
 373 374 375 376 377 378 379 380 381 v v v v v s d l 382 v 383 l l l 384 v 385 386 387 l 388 v 389 v 390 "Adhuc sub judice lis est" 391 s s l l s d l s d l s d l 392 s d l 393 394 s d l 395 396 397 l 398 399 400 officina 401 402 403
 Mr. Williams  rose to reply. He observed, that he should have executed his duty in a very improper manner, if he had attributed pre-eminence to any plan of his own for improving the condition of the suitors in chancery. What he had wished to impress upon the House, and still more, upon the country was, that the state of the court of chancery, from whatever cause it had arisen, was such as to call for the most serious attention and considera-
 435 436 437
 Mr. Hume  begged to ask a question respecting the state of the Russian loan, as we were now to accept of a composition
 438
 Mr. Hume  said, he was not prepared to support a resolution for sanctioning the terms agreed to by government. The committee was told, that Austria had consented to advance 2½ millions to this country; but, by the mode in which the payments were made into the Exchequer, the receipts would fall considerably short of that amount. Hence there was not only an unfair diminution of our just claim, but even an unfair reduction below the amount actually stipulated for. Why, he would ask, were the contractors, Messrs. Reid, Rothschild, Baring, and Co. to receive 5 per cent for their discounts, when other persons were only receiving 3½? Why had such a preference been given to them over others—a preference which would cost the country upwards of 50,000 l
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion, that the right hon. gentleman had confounded a loan with a subsidy, in his mode of reasoning, for he (Mr. H.) could see no inconsistency in the payment of a debt which became due to the emperor of Austria by a subsequent arrangement, though his loan was not paid up, any more than he should in the case of an individual who had paid his bill, before he had settled with the other party for his mortgage. He should like to see the account current of this balance struck, and, as far as he was capable of judging, there could be no objection to the production of such an account. Af-
 444
 Mr. Hume  said, that the explanations given were not satisfactory. It would have been easy enough for the Austrian government to have given 100,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself not satisfied with this explanation. It was not stated in the paper laid before the House, that a bargain had been made with certain contractors, but that a treaty had been concluded with the emperor of Austria. No doubt could remain on this point; for the chancellor of the Exchequer had repeated it last night, and made it the foundation for uttering a very handsome eulogium on the generosity and honesty of the emperor of Austria. It was not stated that a bargain had been made in London with certain contractors, but that our Ambassador at Vienna had concluded a certain treaty with the minister of the emperor. But, the right hon. gentleman now said, that we had made only a bargain with certain contractors, whose offers we were obliged to accept. In the correspondence which he held in his hand, he saw a certain letter from the right hon. gentleman, accepting the offer of the contractors; but he did not see in it when that offer was made, nor what the terms were [Mr. Herries observed across the table, they were contained in a Treasury minute]. Then he (Mr. H.) would say, that one or other of the official papers was not correct. We either contracted to accept 2,500,000 l
 Mr. H. Davis  presented a petition from the manufacturers of Tobacco and Snuff in the city of Bristol, praying for a repeal of the duties on those articles. The petitioners, many of whom were large capitalists, complained that the encouragement given to smuggling, by the high duties, rendered it impossible for the fair dealer to compete with the illicit trader. He could not state a stronger instance of the impolicy of high duties, than that, when the duties amounted to 1 s d lbs s lbs
 Mr. R. Martin  presented a petition from the inhabitants of Manchester, praying for the abolition of bear-baiting, badger-baiting, dog-fighting and monkey-fighting. The petition, he observed, was most numerously and respectably signed, and he felt proud of the honour of having been selected as the individual to present it to the House. He had observed, on a former night, that bull-baiting was already abolished; happily, no man could now bait a bull without exposing himself to the penalties of a misdemeanour. The petition was signed by upwards of 700 most respectable individuals, and particularly by the class of persons belonging to the Society of Friends. It set forth, "That the petitioners, strongly impressed with a sense, not only of the cruelty which is inflicted on the unfortunate animals who are made
 369
 Lord Milton  said, he had a petition to present from a numerous body of his constituents, from the woollen manufacturers of Saddleworth, praying for some modification of the duties upon Foreign Wool. He was sure it would be satisfactory to the House, at least to that part of it who took liberal views of commercial subjects, to hear the opinions which the petitioners expressed. They expressed their hopes that now, when his. majesty's government were taking sound and enlightened views of the commercial interests of the country, the woollen manufactures would not be neglected. He read this passage, with a view to show the House of Commons and the government, that when they took sound views of the interests of the country, their conduct was not misunderstood, nor their endeavours misinterpreted. He had felt great gratis fication, last evening, at that part of the chancellor of the Exchequer's statement, which related to the commercial regulations of the country; but he bad felt much disappointed, and he was sure the country would by no means be satisfied, at the amount of taxation that had been reduced, or the articles that had been selected. He thought, that by the reduction of the duty on coals, a most undue preference had been given to the city of London—that portion of the community who stood least in need of it, because they possessed the concentrated wealth of the country. He knew the argument upon which the reduction rested; but, with all due respect to those who supported that proposition, he must take leave to say, that it would have been much wiser to have selected a tax of more general pressure, and more open to objection £hear!].
 Lord Binning  said, he held in his hand a petition from the Distillers of Scotland, who prayed for an equalization of the duties of Irish and Scotch Spirits. Irish and Scotch distillation was now the same, but Irish spirits were allowed by a liberal intercourse to come into this country, whereas Scotch spirits were excluded. From something which had fallen from the chancellor of the Exchequer in the course of last session, the Scotch distillers were led to believe, that they should be allowed the same advantages; and he was therefore anxious to call the attention of the chancellor of the Exchequer to the subject, and he hoped the prayer of the petition would be acceded to.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, he could not omit the opportunity of bearing his testimony, to the advantages resulting from the enlightened measure of last year; but he greatly feared, that, unless the remaining part of it were carried into execution, namely, the equalization of the duties, a system of smuggling would spring up between England and Scotland, which it would be difficult to put down. He, therefore, trusted that the same spirit which influenced the chancellor of the Exchequer, in the course of the last session, would induce him to place the distillation of both countries on the same footing.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  replied, that the question of weights and measures alone had been considered by the committee, but that of money had never been before them.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to continue the commission of Inquiry into the Public Revenue; that commission, which had been productive of so much advantage in Ireland, and was now so beneficially employed in England, in investigating all affairs of revenue between the two countries. In the course of his observations, he said he should be guilty of great injustice to a former commission appointed by the Treasury, at the head of which commission was his right hon. friend the paymaster of the Forces, if he did not mention with the encomium it deserved, their report, especially that part of it which related to the Customs. It was a tribute due to that commission to notice the activity and knowledge which they displayed in the report in question. The right hon. gentleman then moved for leave to bring in the bill.
 Sir C. Long  acknowledged the gratification which must be felt by himself and the other commissioners in receiving the tribute of praise which his right hon. friend had been pleased to pay to their labours. He was happy to say, that their exertions had been deemed most useful; every suggestion which they had made had been adopted with entire success. It was not for him to say whether their labours should be directed to the same subject again; but he was confident they would proceed with as much activity and perseverance as before wherever their exertions might be wanted.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  seconded the motion. He said, that the bill of last session had been founded on the report of the commission appointed by the Crown, the recommendation of which was, to take some natural measure as the guide, with
 451
 Mr. Hume,  adverting to the statement made by the chancellor of the Exchequer respecting the duties on exciseable articles in the course of the last year, observed, that a noble lord, in another place, had been in the habit, for some years, of introducing a statement of the duties on those articles, whenever they were on the increase. But, whenever they were diminished, no statement appeared. Now, what he wished to have was, a clear account of the produce of the duties on all exciseable articles, for a series of years—say ten, in order that the effect of certain legislative measures, in increasing or in diminishing their amount, might be distinctly ascertained. He was also desirous of having a similar return respecting the Custom duties, under a certain limitation. The hon. gentleman then moved, that there be laid before the House an account of the several articles, charged with the duties of Excise for the last ten years; distinguishing the British and West-India from the East-India sugar; stating the amount of duty levied on each article, and the quantity of articles each year; and, also, distinguishing Great Britain from Ireland. 452 l.
 Mr. Hume  asked, if it was the intention of those commissioners to direct their exertions to the same subject which had occupied them last year. There were many things in the Customs on this side of the
 450
 Mr. Hume,  adverting to the committee which sat in former years, of which the hon. member for Bodmyn was the chairman, wished to know if their labours had terminated in any practical result?
 Mr. Nolan  in moving for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Poor-Laws, said, that it was not his intention to enter into any explanation on the subject at present. If the House would allow him to bring in the bill, and to have it read a first time, he would then move, that it be printed and read a second time at some period that would admit of a sufficient opportunity for considering the merits of the measure.
 Mr. Wallace  did not deny that there were advantages attending the system proposed by the hon. baronet, but whilst he made that admission, he was not pie-pared to assent to his proposition, believing that the inconveniences that would inevitably follow the change, would be very great, and of a character that the expected benefits would not compensate. Besides, it was plain, that whatever were the defects in theory of our present system, it had been so long in practice, and the people were so habituated to it, that very little inconvenience was actually experienced. Nothing could be more correct than the course which the hon. baronet had pursued. It was, undoubtedly, the prerogative of the king to take charge of the coinage; but the very motion of the hon. baronet, tending as it did to create doubts, and to leave the public mind in a state of uncertainty, constituted its objection. The subject of decimal calculation. had been frequently before the House. It had been introduced at the time of the new coinage. It had its advocates, but he must also say, that there were opposed to the system some whose authority on questions of this nature stood very high in that House. It was most true that the system had been adopted after the revolution in France; but the hon. baronet would recollect, that it was adopted when there was an overthrow of every previous system, and when no existing interests or prepossessions were to be contended with. It had doubtless the merits of uniformity and facility, but habit and usage had given an equal facility in this country to the system that prevailed. Besides, there was a great objection to the proposition, when it was recollected, that such an alteration must principally affect the very description of persons, who, from their situations in life, carrying on their dealings in copper money, would feel the alteration, and could not be made sensible of the benefit. Adverting to the difference in the currency of England and of Ireland, he acknowledged that, it; was a very serious inconvenience, intimated that it was his intention to propose some measure on the subject, and expressed
 449
 Mr. Leake  stated, that in consequence of what had passed last night respecting delays in the court of chancery, he considered it his duty, out of respect to the House, although he believed it was not absolutely necessary, in point of form, that he should do so, to acquaint them, that it was not his intention to bring forward the measures upon that subject of which he had given notice at the end of the last session.
 Sir H. Parnell,  in moving for papers to elucidate the act of last session respecting the Commercial Intercourse between this country and Ireland, paid a high Compliment to the commission of Inquiry which had been employed so advantageously for the public in the latter country. Nothing could be more gratifying than to observe the success of their well-directed labours. They had done all they could to make Ireland an industrious, and a happy people. He moved that there be laid before the House a copy of all orders that had been issued by the commission appointed by the Treasury, in pursuance of the Act of 4th of George the fourth, for consolidating the several Boards of Customs and Excise in Ireland.
 Sir H. Parnell  expressed his satisfaction at what had fallen from the right hon. master of the Mint, with reference to the coin of Ireland. He had himself given notice in the last session, that he meant to move for leave to bring in a bill on the subject, but he most cheerfully resigned the undertaking into the hands of one so much more competent to do it justice. Unquestionably, nothing could be more pregnant with inconvenience and injury than the present inequality in the coin of the two countries.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  consented not to press his motion to a division, though he trusted that the young members of the House would live to see the principle of his measure carried into effect.
 Sir John
 446  rose to submit to the House the motion of which he had given notice, namely, to inquire how far the coin of the realm could be adapted to a decimal scale. His apology for trespassing upon the attention of the House must be the strong conviction which he felt of the necessity of the measure. The House must be aware, that the interference of the legislature was necessary to address the Crown upon a question of this kind, for the control of the currency was the prerogative of the crown. It had been said by the great commentator on the laws of England, Mr. Justice Blacks tone, that "as money is the medium of commerce, it is the king's prerogative, as the arbiter of domestic commerce, to give it authority or make it current. The denomination, or the value for which the coin is to pass current, is likewise in the breast of the king, and if any unusual pieces are coined, that value must be ascertained by proclamation. The measure, then, which he was about to propose could not be carried into execution without an address to the Throne, if after mature deliberation, the House should consent to his proposition; without which deliberation he should not presume to ask their assent. It must be manifest to the House, that this measure, if adopted, must be carried into execution at the same hour and moment, or a great degree of confusion must ensue throughout the country. A measure of this nature had been proposed some time back: he had not then the honour of being a member of the House; but, from the best information he could procure, he understood that an ounce of gold being then worth 99 s 447 l s 448
 Mr. Bernal  said, that the effect of the repeal of the bounty would not be felt by Scotland alone. The greater part of the coarse linens which were sent to the West Indies, under the denomination of Osna-burghs, and which were under seven pence a yard, were manufactured in the north of this country. The removal of this bounty; therefore, would have an injurious operation upon an interest which was already very much depressed.
 Mr. Bright  concurred in the propriety of bringing this subject under the consideration of the House.
 Colonel Trench  regretted that the chancellor of the Exchequer, for the sake of saving a paltry sum of 100,000 l., l 454
 Mr. Maberly  said, he did not rise to prolong the discussion, but he could not omit the present opportunity of making a few remarks upon this subject. He was happy to state, that he was confident Ireland would derive a very great advantage from the improved growth of flax in the present year. They had, as he was informed, been able to save their entire seed, which might be valued at ten pounds per acre; and, how different such a condition must be from that in which they lost their seed, he need not state, because it was manifest, that whilst that was the case, it was impossible for them to compete with France or Holland, or those countries where the seed was grown. It was to him a great source of satisfaction to have been, in some degree, instrumental in sending that information to Ireland. The following up of that course would be of the greatest advantage to that country; and he hoped soon to see Ireland a raw producing country, which, he was quite sure, she was capable of becoming; and if that should be the case, it would be most profitable to the poor famishing people of the south of Ireland, whose condition was enough to make one shudder; so that he thought the hon. gentleman opposite need not be alarmed at the removal of a bounty of 10 per cent in ten years. One word now with respect to the classification of bounties. The great production of low-price bounties arose in Scotland, and if they were taken off, it would manifestly do an injury to that country. He thought they should deal out even-handed justice to Scotland as well as to Ireland, and to England too; and that was a consideration which should not be lost sight of by the chancellor of the Exchequer. Another point which he wished to be considered was, the propriety of taking off the duties upon hemp. This, he thought, would be a considerable advantage; and, indeed, a pledge had been given to that effect by the government, as was very well known by the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Wallace). There was no less a duty than 25 per cent on hemp, which was an enormous tax on the raw material, and he was astonished how people who talked of liberal principles could maintain so enormous a duty as 25 or 30 per cent on the raw material. Really, it was holding
 455
 Mr. Wallace  said, he merely rose to remove the impression that he had given any pledge as to the repeal of the duties on hemp.
 Mr. Maberly  said, he did not mean to state that the right hon. gentleman personally had done so, but most certainly a pledge to that effect had been given by the government most distinctly.
 Lord Binning  declared, that the prin-
 471 472 473 474 475 aristocracie populaire, 476 popularis aura 477 478
 Mr. Kennedy  expressed his surprise, that the right hon. gentleman, the member for Edinburgh (Mr. W. Dundas), had not thought it worth his while to deliver his opinion upon the present occasion. Under all the circumstances, his silence was remarkable; for the right hon. gentleman had stated at a former time, as would probably be remembered, that whenever this debate was brought on, he should not fail to be in his place to make the House acquainted with his sentiments. Perhaps the right hon. gentleman thought that his notions were pretty well understood and it was much better for him to act consistently, and say nothing; feeling that
 480 481
 Sir R. Heron  rose to give his utmost opposition to the motion of the hon. member, and he begged the House not to sanction such a petty, trumpery, and he would add, such a blundering kind of legislation. He would explain what he meant by the term "blundering kind of legislation," as that which had been adopted by the hon. member. In the course of the last-session, the hon. member had said, that he would not touch upon bull-baiting, because he thought he was likely to be opposed in it; and yet, the other evening he had gloried in the attempt to put it down. This he would call a blundering mode of legislation; for an hon. member to glory at one time for having attempted that which, a short time before, he had declared he did not intend. Perhaps, the hon. member had intended to give the House one bull instead of another. He would oppose this motion, because he thought it went to trench upon the amusements of the people, and he did not think that they ought to be trenched upon unnecessarily. The legislature had not shown itself very favourable to the sports of the common people. He could not believe that the higher orders were cruel in their sports, or that the lower orders, who imitated those above them were cruel in theirs. The hon. member who brought this forward had either gone too far, or not far enough on this occasion. In his opinion, he went too far; but, on the hon. member's own principle, he would ask him what he thought of cock-fighting? or what he thought of another kind of sport, in which he did not know whether the hon. member indulged; namely, that of torturing
 490
 Mr. Secretary Peel  disclaimed any intention to throw ridicule on the motion. There was nothing ludicrous in the subject, though there might be in the way of treating it; and, if his hon. friend himself smiled at the hon. baronet's illustration of his argument from the mode of eating
 492 493 494 "Compound for sports they are inclined to, By damning those they have no mind to." 495
 Mr. Gouldburn  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the act of Geo. IV. c. 68. relative to church rates in Ireland. The House would recollect, that an act was passed last session, to extend an act which already existed in England, to Ireland. By the act as applied to England, there were certain powers vested in the lord chancellor of England, and the amendment which he now meant to propose was, that the same powers should, with regard to Ireland, be vested in the lord chancellor of that country. The right hon. gentleman then moved for leave to bring in the bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had flattered himself that recent discussions had satisfied the mind of the hon. gentleman, that nothing had taken place in the transaction in question of a secret or objectionable nature; and he still hoped that what had been already said was satisfactory to the House generally. If the hon. gentleman wanted a precedent for the transaction, he could not gratify him; for upon consulting the records of the Treasury, he had not been able to find any relating to a matter of at all a similar character. The hon. gentleman did not seem to understand this business, which had proceeded briefly thus: The Austrian government had proposed to give us a certain amount of Austrian stock: but that would have been a most unsatisfactory mode of settlement; for if this government had taken stock, they must have gone into the market with it. What they could have done in that case, he really did not understand, though he had no doubt they would have made but an indifferent bargain. This government would have been liable upon its sales to all the fluctuations to which the stocks were exposed. It was therefore thought the better plan to ascertain in what mariner they could get at some money instead. The Austrian government agreed to this proposition; but, having no means of raising the requisite amount of money within their own territories, they employed certain capitalists in this country. This government then desired to know what money those capitalists could afford to give for this stock; and it was perfectly true, that in the beginning of the transaction, and before an offer was finally made, some written communications had passed between the contractors and the Treasury. The contractors, at length, on behalf of Austria, produced their  ultimatum;
 Mr. Baring  wished to furnish that information which his hon. friend seemed not to be in possession of. Undoubtedly, the offer alluded to did not exist as a document. There was no written papers of the kind. It was, on the part of those gentlemen who were interested with him (Mr. Baring}, a specific proposal, in which the Treasury had finally acquiesced. After considerable discussions about the terms of payment, before the offer was made, it was at last made verbally, not by himself, but by one of the parties. Therefore no such paper existed. In the first place he would observe, that he fully concurred with the hon. gentleman in that general principle which he (Mr. B.) had so often advocated; namely, that transactions of this kind should be public. But, in the present case, there was no public operation to be performed, because the Austrian minister of Finance had made up his mind to give only a certain amount of stock and the government of this country determined to accept it. In the next place, the Austrian bankers at Vienna became, in the meanwhile, mixed up with the transction. They had granted a loan themselves to their government, and it was understood there should be no other without their consent. They therefore necessarily became parties to the transaction, and nothing could be done without their consent. Their government, again, could not send their stock here, through any other channel but the English government; nor would it have been decent in the latter, under the circumstances, to treat that stock in the public way that would have been then requisite. The Contractors saw lord Liverpool and the chancellor of the Exchequer in the first
 500
 Mr. Maberly  conceived, that the objection of his hon. friend was directed rather against the principle of contracting loans in secret, than against the actual terms that had been obtained. The recovery of the loan itself was, as the chancellor of the Exchequer had well described it, a God send, for the emperor of Austria might in fairness have got rid of the whole thing, in consequence of the negligence of our government in omitting to press the claim. He thought, with the secretary of state for the foreign department, that the emperor of Austria might have got rid, with fairness and justice, even of the payment which he had now consented to make. At the treaty of Paris, the emperor had transferred to another power his dominions in the Netherlands, for the defence of which dominions this loan had been contracted. He had, therefore, a right to say to the government of this country, "I have parted with the Netherlands, and the debt which I contracted for them must go along with the ceded provinces." In not using that language, the emperor of Austria had acted like a man of the highest honour.
 Mr. Secretary Canning,  after repeating his former eulogium on the honourable conduct of the emperor of Austria throughout the whole of this transaction, proceeded to show that the motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen was founded on a mistake. That hon. member seemed to imagine, that the British government had been in possession of the stock before there had been any intervention of the British bankers, and that it could therefore have gone into the market, and asked who would give the most money for the stock it had obtained. Now, this had never been the case. The Austrian government had wished to pay in a quantity of stock, and the British government to get paid in a determinate sum of money. When this became evident to the Austrian government, it became a question with Austria, how she should change her stock into money; and the money question in the first case arose with the Austrian bankers. It was not until the English houses had placed themselves in the situation of representatives of the emperor of Austria that any negotiation had been commenced with them by the British government, and during no part of that negotiation had
 501
 Mr. Hobhouse  asked a question relative to the nett amount that was to be paid into the Exchequer on account of this loan.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that the nett amount would be about 2,200,000 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that as he had not expected this question to come on this evening, he had omitted to bring down with him a memorandum which would have enabled him to inform the hon. member, when the act of parliament was passed by which this postage was enacted. It was, however, an act of old date which imposed this postage, and which authorized certain officers of the Post-office to apply it to their own use. He was sure that all who heard him would agree, that there were no public officers who deserved a liberal remuneration more than the gentlemen engaged in the Post-office. Mr. Freeling was one of the most useful public officers in the country, and was therefore entitled to be most liberally dealt with. He had a fact to relate, which he thought would convince the hon. member that he would best consult the public convenience by withdrawing his motion. It would be recollected that, in the last year, the commissioners of inquiry had received powers to inquire into the various fees and emoluments received by the different clerks in the Post-office. They were now engaged upon that inquiry, and he thought it would be greatly impeded, if the House should come to a resolution to repeal those acts. Pie therefore trusted that the hon. member would withdraw his motion. If he did not, he must meet it with a decided negative.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  disapproved altogether of such a singular mode of legislation. They had no right to conjecture what the commissioners might propose, and therefore none to adopt any proceeding founded on the anticipation of their judgment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that this project had for some time past been in abeyance. By the act for building a new Post-office, the city had been compelled to advance a certain sum of money, and had actually advanced 80,000 l
 Mr. Baring  wished to know whether the city had given the sum which it had been originally agreed that it should contribute. He had understood, that the
 504
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the city had complied with all the terms which had been demanded of it. He was sorry to observe, that a large sum had been expended in obtaining the objects which the hon. member had just mentioned.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  added, that the city had not merely complied with the terms exacted from it, but had also been 30,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could not pledge himself as to the time when the report would be made, but he was certain that no unnecessary delay would take place.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  gave no answer to this question,
 Lord John Russell  expressed his utter astonishment to hear any honourable member contend, that the object of the motion was not desired by the people of Edinburgh, in the face of the petition of those very people themselves. That Scotland could be supposed solemnly to have stipulated at the Union, that nineteen persons in the city of Edinburgh, should return a representative to the House of Commons, in spite of, and sometimes in contradiction to, the remaining 21,000 of the respectable inhabitants, was so complete an absurdity, that he could not believe it ever entered any heads but such as were sometimes to be found in that House. There were some things which appeared so extraordinary and absurd at first hearing, that even public meetings, at which frequently the most ignorant were present, rejected them; and they could be propounded only in the House of Commons. Of that description was the proposition of the hon. member for Yorkshire, with respect to the solemn stipulation to which he had adverted. The hon. member for Yorkshire had also discovered, that the constitution of the House of Commons was so admirable, that it had led the country through all its difficulties—through all the good and evil it had experienced. But, did the hon. gentleman mean to say, that the present state of the country—that its gradual recovery from the distress by which it had been nearly overwhelmed—was at all attributable to the wisdom of that House? Why, when the distress of the agricultural interest was at the highest, did ministers venture to say that they had any proposition to make to remove that distress? On the contrary, was it not said by gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House, and at last acceded to by the gentlemen on the other side, that there could he no relief given, except by relieving the country from taxation? Was not that proposition at first treated with scorn? And was it not said, that the natural course of events, seconded by the energy and industry of the people of England, would relieve us from any difficulties? And that, in fact, was the case. What man of common sense was there but must see that it was so? We had also the advantage of living under some good laws, and it was owing to the security derived from the knowledge that those laws could not be violated, that the country flourished, even in despite of the
 470
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the right hon. baronet could not complain that the bill had not been discussed, for it had been delayed night after night, at his own request. He was convinced that nobody could maintain the present bill had caused any oppression, unless he was ignorant of the law as it stood before this act extended to Ireland.
 Mr. Abercromby  rose to reply. At least, Sir, (said the hon. and learned member) thus much has been gained for the people of Scotland—that no honourable member has ventured to vindicate the state of the representation of the city of Edinburgh. No one has had the hardihood to say, that he will undertake the defence of the existing representative 6ystem in Scotland. The hon. member for Yorkshire has insinuated, that reformers are generally republicans. At least, I am not a republican; for the leading principle of the reform I contend for, is to produce such a gradual and wholesome change in the representation of the people, as to arrest all danger of the establishment of a republic. Those, indeed, may be truly called republicans, who, adhering to antiquated defects, and modern corruptions, refuse to listen to the voice of a well-informed people calling for a rational change and an easy remedy. I am well assured, that, as education has advanced in this country the desire of reform has advanced also, and
 482 483 484 485
 Mr. Abercromby  then rose, to submit to the House his promised motion, and addressed the House to the following effect:—Mr. Speaker; in obedience to the wishes of a very numerous, intelligent, and respectable body of my fellow-countrymen, I presented to the House in the course of the last session, that petition which has just been read. At the time I received it, I found the House occupied with various and urgent questions, and in the exercise of that discretion which was vested in me, I felt that I should best consult the interest of the petitioners by postponing their case to a season when I might obtain the patient and undivided attention of the House. I was desirous that that petition should be again read, as it contains a clear and distinct detail of the present state of the representation of Edinburgh, setting forth, in a striking manner, the grievances of which they complain. It has seldom happened, that a petition has been presented to the House containing more respectful, and, at the same time, confiding language; and, if the result of this night should prove that that confidence has been misplaced, I shall have the bitter mortification to feel, that the failure
 456 457 l l 458 459 460 461 462 463 464
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  observed, that he had listened with considerable attention to the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, but had not been
 465 466 467 * * 468
 Mr. J. Martin  said, that as the postage rates were before the House, he wished to ask a question relative to a project which existed some years ago of building a new Post-office. He believed that 140,000 l
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that, although a part of the ridicule which had been directed against his hon. friend might devolve upon himself, he should nevertheless give the motion his support, and state the reason that induced him to do so. Nothing had been brought forward against the motion which could be fairly
 491
 Mr. Hume  said, that his object was, to ask for information on the early part of this transaction. He could not believe that his majesty's government had come to a resolution respecting so large a sum of money, and to pay so large a discount, without some written proposal having been made. The House had had laid on their table the answer to the proposal of the contractors for the payment of 2,500,000 l l l l l l l
 Mr. Hume  still thought, that if such a paper as he smoke of was in existence,
 499
 Mr. Hume  said, that there was another point to which he wished to call the attention of the right hon. gentleman. On Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, no foreign post left London. This was found very inconvenient by several merchants; and it had been suggested to him to ask, whether some alteration could not be made in the present practice, so that the foreign post should go out on alternate days throughout the week.
 Mr. Hume  said, that all he wished was, to guard against the loss of a whole year,
 503
 Mr. Hume  said, he had no objection to to put off his motion, if any inconvenience was likely to arise from it; provided the right hon. gentleman did not mean to let the question drop. He trusted there would be no objection to the insertion of a clause in the act of parliament, authorising the Treasury to carry such a measure into immediate execution, if the commissioners of inquiry should recommend it. His object in suggesting such a clause was, to guard against the evil of postponing the operation to another year.
 Mr. Hume  rose to inquire, why newspapers were not sent as free of postage to the colonies as they were to the Isle of Man and to Ireland? The high rate of postage at which they were charged prevented a free dissemination of knowledge between the parent state and the colonies. By returns which had been laid on the table, he observed that, for some time past, the number of newspapers sent to our colonial dependencies had been regularly diminishing. In 1810, the number of daily papers sent to them amounted to only 383; in 1817, they had diminished to 271, and in 1821, to 206. This was attributable to the high rate of postage charged upon them. A daily paper was charged 12 l s l s d l s 502
 Mr. R. Martin  rose, according to notice, and stated, that the motion which he had to propose was, that a
 487 488 489
 Mr. R. Martin  replied, amidst cries of question. The sports, he said, which he had left untouched, did not equal in cruelty those which he wished to prohibit, if they did, he would equally attack them. His right hon. friend therefore, had not answered his arguments. His right hon. friend, said, that shooting was as barbarous as the practices of the Westminster pit, and as tearing animals to pieces. If this were the case, his right hon. friend might like to pay the Westminster pit a visit. He knew his right hon. friend was Very partial to shooting, and indulged in it freely; and he did not see why he should not also indulge a little in the sports of bear-baiting. He was sure the keeper of the Westminster pit, when he should learn what his right hon. friend had said would appropriate a box to the right hon. gentleman, and select some  white day 496
 Mr. James  complained, that the money so long kept back by Austria should be so much diminished as it must be by the percentage allowed to the contractors.
 Mr. W. Peel  said, he gave credit to his hon. friend, for the excellent motives that actuated him, but he could not avoid seeing the gross inconsistency and partiality of the law that was proposed. They who were daily in the habit of pursuing amusements which had some degree of cruelty (though, perhaps, not quite so much as those complained of), were called upon to suppress the amusements of others, on the ground of cruelty. Now, unless the members of the House were disposed to give up their sports, he saw not how they could interfere with the sports of others. Bear-baiting and badger-baiting might not be very favourable to morality; but the: people might say that it was not very favourable to morality for the higher classes, to assemble on Saturday night and continue till Sunday morning at the Opera; If his hon. friend would legislate—for which he saw no necessity—he would recommend him to fly at higher game, and abolish all cruel sports. The existing law, if enforced, would put an end to the disorderly meetings which his hon. friend complained of, and he could therefore see no ground whatever for the motion.
 Mr. Scarlett,  in presenting a petition from a lady, who claimed descent from the royal family, and styled herself Princess of Cumberland, expressed his regret at not seeing the right hon. Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place. The petitioner declared, that she was lineally descended from George the Second; that she was now a prisoner, residing within the Rules of the King's Bench Prison, and she prayed protection and redress, and likewise that she might be heard at the Bar of that House.—Ordered to lie on the table.
 Sir J. Newport,  reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Yorkshire on the claims of parliament, as the authors of the present prosperous state of the country, said, that he had lived long-enough to remember the panegyrics rung out by its members upon the parliament of Ireland, previous to the union. It was said, that they were proceeding in the best of all possible ways to secure the happiness of the people of Ireland; in short, that nothing could be wiser or better than the measures they adopted. He would venture to say, that if the debates from the year 1790 to 1800 were gone through, it would be found that nine-tenths consisted of eulogiums pronounced by the parliament of Ireland upon itself. How well deserved those eulogiums had been, it was needless for him to point out; enough was known to make him and others very sceptical as to the justice of the praises which the hon. member for Yorkshire had so liberally lavished. The Irish parliament had accelerated its own downfall, by separating itself from the feelings and interests of the people they professed to represent; and it was not improbable that, in the case of England, the same cause would lead to the same effect. The noble lord who spoke last had maintained, that the petition so respectably and so numerously signed, did not speak the sentiments of the inhabitants of Edinburgh. But, if this were true, why had no counter petition been got up and laid upon the table? Sufficient time had been allowed; as the petition now before
 479
 Sir J. Newport  said, he might be ignorant of the law as it at present stood. It was some years ago since he had made the law of Ireland his study; but, of what it was before the right hon. gentleman made all his innovations, he was not so ignorant as the right hon. gentleman.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he had before expressed his opinion of this bill and to that opinion he should adhere. A more mischievous bill—a bill, more fraught with oppression, or more calculated to do mischief—had never passed. Little time had been allowed, when the bill passed that House, to discuss or oppose it, and he had been surprised, on a reference to documents which he had found in another place, to see it stated, that this measure had undergone ample discussion in that
 497
 The Attorney-General  (sir J. Copley) said, he was anxious to make a few remarks upon this subject, as it had fallen to his lot to be acquainted with some of the facts of the case. And first, he wished to advert to a statement contained in the conclusion of his hon. and learned friend's speech; he meant with respect to Mr. Abraham Flint, the brother of the petitioner. The fact was this: an application was made to lord Sidmouth, in the shape of a petition, to mitigate the sentence which had been passed upon him by his hon. and learned friend the member for Stafford. That petition was supported by the interference of his hon. and learned friend, but, after a perusal of the circumstances of the case, lord Sidmouth had been of opinion, that there were no grounds for a mitigation of the sentence. However, not satisfied with having gone so far, as soon as lord Sidmouth had retired from office, and was succeeded by his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel), so far from any prejudice remaining in the mind of his hon. and learned friend against that individual that he actually renewed his application to the secretary of state, and, on the second occasion, his prayer was attended with success, and his right hon. friend consented to yield to his intreaties. Then, he would boldly ask, what pretence was there for an imputation of undue prejudice in the mind of his hon. friend, against the present petitioner, or against any member of his family? Did not his own conduct furnish the best refutation [cheers]? Now, with respect to the present charge what were the facts? An individual was supposed to be guilty of a violation of the law, and having been arrested by a constable, an immense crowd of people assemble to the number of four or five hundred, for the purpose of rescuing him from the constituted authorities. He hoped the House would not be led away by the  ex parte 513 514
 The Attorney General. —Yes; for five hours altogether. He was subsequently employed in carding and spinning wool, and, on a further representation from the individual, he was allowed to remain entirely idle. As to his having been shut up for forty days, and deprived of any intercourse, and of his being allowed nothing but bread and water—points which were contained in the petition—as his hon. and learned friend had not touched upon them, he should say nothing; but he would just put the matter to the House in this way. In consequence of the publication of statements in the London papers, similar to those in the petition, his hon. friend (Mr. Chetwynd) had moved for and obtained a criminal information, in the court of King's-bench; his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Denman) had stated, that there were some observations upon the statements, which also formed a ground for the application. Whether this were the case or not, he was not prepared to say; but the main charge was the statement which was now repeated in the petition. The House were aware, that the court of King's-bench never granted a criminal information, until all the facts were disproved upon oath; so that all the material allegations had been contradicted upon affidavit by his hon. friend, by Mr. Clair, by the agent of sir G. Jerningham, by the task-master of the prison,
 515 ex parte
 The Solicitor General  (Mr. Wetherell) said, that putting out of consideration for the moment, the talents and character, and gratuitous services of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Stafford, he should contend, that no magistrate in the country ought to be left at the mercy of such a petition as that which had been offered to the House. Three courses were open to the petitioner; the one was, to move for a criminal information against his hon. and learned friend; the second was, a petition to the great seal; and the next, an application to the lord-lieutenant of the county. But, instead of this, the petitioner had called upon the House to form itself into a court of criminal jurisprudence, which they were not competent to do; and, if the House should resolve to entertain this petition, they would knock out of the lists all the ordinary and constitutional modes of redress. Until he was satisfied that all the ordinary means had been resorted to, he should not consent to the receiving this petition. His hon. and learned friend had called upon the House for an opportunity of vindicating his character; but, would the
 516
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that on the subject of the presentation of the petition, or the propriety of receiving it, he should not say one word; for, in that respect, he felt himself somewhat in the situation of his hon. friend, the member for Stafford, inasmuch as the exercise of his judgment had been called in question. But, if an inquiry were to be set on foot, and he were called upon to account for the reasons why he had abstained from advising the Crown to exercise the prerogative of mercy, then he should endeavour to give a satisfactory explanation of his decision. There were three points upon which blame was attributed to him in his official capacity; the first was, the nature of the inquiry which he had instituted; the next was, the delay in commencing it; and the third was, his not having advised the Crown to exercise the prerogative of mercy. With respect to the two first, he should endeavour to give a satisfactory explanation. On the last, he should be silent; because it would be impossible to explain the various motives that would induce one to abstain from giving such advice without going into a full detail of the particulars of the case. The two preliminary points, as to the nature of the inquiry and the delay, he should proceed to explain, and from that explanation, the House would draw an inference as to the propriety of the other. The first case was that of Abraham Flint: and it had been very justly stated, that his first act on his
 517
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that ever since the House of Commons had been a house of Commons one uniform custom had prevailed with reference to the receiving of petitions. No member, it was held, was justified in presenting a petition, unless he was prepared to pledge himself to the truth of its allegations [No no, from the Opposition]. No individual, he would repeat, had a right to make the access to that House a matter of convenience for himself in attacking the character of magistrates and others. The members of that House were bound to present no pe-
 522
 Mr. S. Wortley  entreated his hon. friend the member for Surry, not to per-
 524
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it appeared to him that the argument brought forward by the hon. member for Surry would apply, if the hon. and learned gentleman persisted in pressing the House to receive the petition, but it had no application if the hon. and learned gentleman wished to withdraw it.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, that the trigonometrical survey of Ireland, singly taken, would give a very insufficient idea of the value of the country. It would, however, be a considerable step. He thought the country might be triangulated in one year. The details would be afterwards filled in by degrees. The survey of Great Britain had been most creditable to the officers engaged in it, and had raised the country in the eyes of the scientific world.
 Mr. Herries  said, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had been obliged by indisposition to leave the House, and that the subject referred to was one of such difficulty that he was not himself exactly prepared to answer it. The hon. gentleman must recollect, that some of those fees, were established by patent, and that therefore the persons to whom they were payable had such a vested interest in them as prevented their immediate abolition. Others of them were paid on other grounds to which it was unnecessary for him to allude further than to say, that considerable delicacy ought to be used in meddling with them. With regard to the complexity of the public accounts, he could only say, that it was the earnest wish of the chancellor of the Exchequer to simplify them as much as possible.
 Mr. Herries  said, that the hon. member did not appear to be aware, that many of these fees were very beneficial to the public, and absolutely made up a fund out of which many contingent services in the Treasury were paid. The subject was of a complicated nature, and he therefore trusted that the hon. member would not be surprised that he did not give him any further answer in the absence of the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Colonel Davies  thought, that the barrack-masters were immoderately paid, especially as, in many instances, they were attached to barracks where there was no troops. It would, he thought, be for the benefit of the country that such barracks should be deserted altogether, and allowed to go to ruin. The hon. baronet had challenged them to put their fingers upon items. The task was not easy, as they had not the details before them; but perhaps, if they were furnished with as minute particulars as it was in the power of government to afford them, many items of gross extravagance would appear. He was surprised to find the sum of 84,000 l
 Mr. Hobhouse  rose to make some remarks on a subject which was particularly interesting to his constituents, and on which he had before put a question to the secretary of war. Seeing an excess of expenditure, amounting this year to 14,000 l 547 l l l 548 l l
 Sir R. Heron  said, that all the mischief arose, not from the soldiers being billeted on public-houses, but from so large a standing army being kept up in time of peace, and collected in such great numbers in and about London, to overawe its population.
 Mr. Maberly  objected altogether to that branch of this department, which consisted in store-houses in London. The great depot for the army should be Woolwich. The store-houses in London were a very unnecessary expense. There would be a great saving by sending all the stores to Woolwich. There they might all be embarked at once on board ship, and a large army might be fitted out in a short time. The London establishments were absolutely useless, and were kept up, he believed, only to create influence. A heavy expense must necessarily be incurred, if stores that were to be sent abroad, and had to be procured at different parts of England, were sent first to London. They had no business to come to London at all, but ought to be sent direct to the port where they were to be shipped. If economy were at all desirable, he was sure these store-houses should be done away. By getting rid of this branch of the com-
 551
 Mr. Robertson  rose to oppose the motion. He began by stating, that under the Roman republic, the rate of the interest of money declined as the wealth of the country increased, down to the time of Justinian, in whose code laws against usury were established, limiting different rates of interest to the different classes of the
 552 553 l l 554 555
 Captain Maberly  observed, that in rising immediately after the hon. member who spoke last, it was not his intention to follow him throughout the very remote and barbarian retrospect which he had taken. In legislating under the present state of Public improvement, he should restrict Himself to the consideration,—were these
 556
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  observed, that although indisposed, he was most anxious to offer a few observations on the present question. It was said by the advocates for the repeal of the usury laws, as stated in the report of the committee, that at that time the alteration would produce no great effect. That was stated on the 30th of June, 1818; and its fallacy was esta-
 557 558 559 560 l l l l l l
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the hon. alderman who had just sat down had, in the course of his speech, stated, that nothing was so fluctuating as the value of money; now, it appeared to him, that this was a strange beginning to a speech, the object of which was, to continue laws to fix the rate of interest. He was as indisposed as any man to make alterations in the existing laws on account of mere theory, but here there was a great practical evil. One of the justifications set up for these laws was their high antiquity. That, no doubt, was a respectable title; but, let it be remembered, that they had their origin in times, when our ancestors made it a practice to meddle and interfere in all transactions of buying and selling every article of provision. At that time it was not deemed beneath their notice to regulate the price of cloth, corn, and even poultry, and the one law he thought just as wise as the other. He was by no means a friend to innovation; but although he could not become a convert to the scheme of decimal calculation, still he thought it prudent to make those wise alterations which were consistent with the enlightened spirit of legislation, which characterized the present age. He would not adhere to an an dent law merely because it was antient, unless he also found that it was wise; he could not, for instance, recognise the policy of continuing a law, which enacts that, if a man commit a crime, not himself alone, but his entire family should suffer a penalty. The one law was just as old as the other. He conceived that a man with money had as good a right to dispose of it in the
 561 l 562
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he was perfectly sensible of the disadvantages under which the House discussed this question at so late an hour of the night; and he confessed he was some what surprised that when a few nights back, five of his majesty's ministers had voted on this important question, they had not thought fit to favour the House with their presence this evening. It appeared to him, that it would have been much more satisfactory to this House, as well as to the country at large, if, when they meant to support it, they would make it a cabinet measure; for he felt persuaded that no subject would be brought forward during the present session, that affected more extensively and deeply the interests of the community at large. He confessed that he expressed his opinion on this question with great apprehension, because he differed always with regret, from his hon. friend near him (Mr. Baring), whose extensive knowledge and great practical information, gave to his opinions such weight on these questions. But, when he looked to the evidence of history, his opinions acquired additional strength. He there found that for the last three hundred years the country had prospered under the system of Usury Laws, and he found that at each successive reduction of interest our prosperity had increased more and more, according as it had been regulated by statute. All the great writers on this subject recognised the value of each successive reduction from Henry the eighth downwards till the time of Anne, when the interest was settled at five per cent.—And now he would come to consider the consequence' of the repeal of these laws, from which so much benefit had been expected by some gentlemen, but which he contended would be so detrimental. One of the very first effects of the repeal would be, to unsettle the minds of men, and shake all the securities of the country. All the lenders would immediately commence watching the variations of the money market, and the borrowers would be trembling for the bargains they had made, and would be in perpetual fear of the threats of the lenders. It was very true, as had been said, that engagements were made for a term of years; but was it probable that henceforward any capitalist would be so foolish as to lock up his money for a term of vears? His right
 563 564 565 566
 Mr. Maberly  said, that the Tower stores had supplied all the small stores for the army during war, and were now sufficient for the purpose. He was sure that nine-tenths of the store-houses were at present unoccupied, and were kept up only for the sake of patronage. If the House really wished to abate expense, they would find ample opportunity of doing it by inquiring into the Commissariat, Store, and Ordnance departments.
 Sir R. Heron  put it to the learned Serjeant, whether he would bring forward his motion at that late hour, when the House was exhausted, when many members had been present nine hours, attending to the business of the House, and who wished to take part in the discussion. He trusted the learned Serjeant would not press the measure.
 Sir R. Heron  maintained, that the proposition of the hon. and learned Serjeant tended to reverse the policy and morality of our ancestors, and those of almost every nation in every age. It had been denied, that there were any usury laws in Holland and Prussia. In Holland he understood they had been repealed five and twenty years ago: and the fact was, that the
 569
 Sir J. Sebright  expressed his perfect conviction that the law, as it now stood, was extremely injurious to the landed proprietor. As a landed proprietor, therefore, he expressed his thanks to his hon. and learned friend who had proposed its repeal. The fact was, that he had never heard but one good argument in favour of the usury laws, and that was from a friend of his, certainly no great political economist, who, in a discussion which he had had with him on the subject, exclaimed, "Why, every body knows that five per cent is the natural interest of money." But as, after all, this argument was not perfectly conclusive, he should certainly support the bill.
 Mr. Baring  said, he was extremely unwilling to trespass on the patience of the House; but the question was one of such great importance, that he begged to be allowed to say a few words upon it. The opinion which he at present entertained upon it, was the opinion which he had entertained from the moment that he had been able to think at all; and he had not had the advantage enjoyed by the hon. member for London, of hearing any thing that
 570 571
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  said, that if the hon. baronet had been in his place on Friday last, he could not have made this request. It was then expressly agreed, that the subject should come on this night. He should certainly not accede to the hon. baronet's request.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that notwithstanding all that had been offered, he could not forbear from making a few remarks. It appeared to him, that the charges were wholly without foundation; for he believed, in the administration of justice, or in the performance of the other magisterial duties, a more scrupulous magistrate did not exist than his hon. friend. He
 519
 Colonel Trench  was glad to find the survey was to be undertaken in a scientific way; which would be much superior to the loose parochial surveys. l
 Mr. Canning  expressed a desire to know, whether it was the intention of the hon. and learned gentleman to withdraw the petition or not?
 Mr. Canning  said, that his wish was that the petition should be withdrawn. If it were not, he must oppose its being brought up, simply on the ground, that it prayed for that which it was impossible for the House to grant, namely, that it would reconsider and reverse the verdict of a jury.
 Mr. Sumner  considered the petition a gross abuse of the privilege of the House, and could not yield to the wishes of those who expressed a desire to allow it to be withdrawn.
 Mr. Holme Sumner  said, he rose for the purpose of opposing the bringing up the petition. Its sole object seemed to be to cast an imputation upon a most excellent and respectable magistrate, and a member of that House. When the House considered the talents and attainments of the
 511
 Mr. Bright  said, he had not a single doubt of the truth of all that had been urged in defence of the conduct of his excellent and very worthy friend, the member for Stafford, but, throwing aside all personal feeling and consideration, he called upon the House and especially upon the country gentlemen present, to reflect deeply how far the conduct recommended with regard to this petition agreed with the right of the people to present petitions to parliament, which right was secured to them by the great charter. He would assent to the withdrawing of the petition, but not to the opposition made to bringing it up. He never would consent to so dangerous ah encroachment on the people's rights. Were they really prepared to say, that because a magistrate happened to be a member of that House, the House would not hear any petition accusing him of malversation? The right hon. gentleman said, that a member presenting a petition, was bound to take care that there was nothing disrespectful to the House in it. But, would any one say that a petition was disrespectful to the House, which sought the interference of the House in a case of alleged oppression? For what purpose did they sit there, if not to listen to the complaints of the people? It was said, that the complaint in the petition, if true, was matter tryable by the ordinary jurisdictions. He allowed that that might be the more proper course: but it was one thing to deny the truth of a petition or the propriety of its appeal, and another to refuse to hear it. It did not fellow that they must adopt its suggestions, or that a member might not be prepared to
 523
 Mr. Goulburn  wished to remind the right hon. baronet, and those who had spoken on the same side, that they had no want of intelligence to complain of It was only last session, or the session before, that a detailed statement was laid on the table of the House, containing all the particulars connected with every barrack in the kingdom. Besides, a reduction of the barracks had taken place in Ireland since the war: during the war, there was accommodation for 87,000 men; whereas now there was only accommodation for 36,000.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that, as a motion was soon to be brought forward on the subject of a survey of Ireland, it would not be necessary for him to enter into explanations, further than to say, that the government was satisfied of the necessity of the measure; that they had communicated with the Master-general of the ordnance on the subject, who had made arrangements for carrying through the survey with a rapidity far exceeding that with which the work had proceeded in England.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, a third of the survey of Great Britain had been printed; two-thirds were completed, the whole of the country had been triangulated, and the work would probably be complete in three years.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the reduction in the number of cadets was not inconsiderable. Last year, there had been 150. There were now 127, though there were 130 mentioned in the estimates. There were many young gentlemen, who had been educated at the academy, who were highly qualified, and for whom it was yet impossible to find commissions. There had been 108 vacancies in the artillery since the peace, which would have been sufficient to have supplied all the gentlemen who were qualified, with commissions; but so great a number of officers had been brought from half to full pay, that it was impossible to bestow
 540
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, the authority to allow artillery officers to sell their commissions was granted last year, for the purpose of assisting the deplorably low state of promotion in that corps, without increasing the public burthens. It was permitted, that a certain number of artillery officers, who had served twenty years, might sell to officers of the line, they being unattached officers on half-pay. Ten lieutenant-colonels, one major, and three captains of the artillery had sold their commissions, which were purchased by officers of the line. The saving by the decrease of half-pay was, 2,463 l l l l
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the barrack-masters were paid as low as they could be, consistently with the purpose of keeping them respectable; for no one who
 545 l l
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the hon. member had made his whole speech under a mistake. It was true there was an estimate of 14,531 l l l 549
 Sir H. Hardinge  observed, that the repairs of the Irish barracks were made under the inspection of a committee, and if government had taken care to send over gentlemen of great experience and
 546
 Sir H. Hardinge  stated, that the superintending officer was a man of great talent and experience, who had obtained the appointment with an allowance of 600 l
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, it was not in the power of the Board of Ordnance to break the agreement with him, on the faith of which he received 600 l l
 Sir H. Hardinge  thought the hon. member was not correctly informed. It frequently happened, that great coats I were to be sent to one place, shoes to another, and hats to a third: and all such articles were necessarily sent to the place where the ship which was to take them on board was loading. Now, as this was in many cases the West or East India Docks, it would cost a great sum of money to employ lighters to bring these stores from Woolwich.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, he could not give a detailed answer to the hon. gentleman's question. As to the stores to which the vote related, it seemed most advisable and beneficial for the public service, that they should be furnished from the commissariat department.
 Sir H. Hardinge  rose for the purpose of moving the Ordnance Estimates. He' observed, that he was not disposed to trouble the committee with any preliminary remarks on estimates, which, he trusted, would speak for themselves. Without any further preface, therefore, he would endeavour to give as clear an idea as possible of the subject, to which it was his duty to call the attention of the committee." That subject divided itself into three distinct heads—Ordnance, Barracks, and Commissariat of stores. And first, with respect to the Ordnance. The sum which it was proposed to vote this year for Ordnance was 978,342 l 526 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 527 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 528 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 529 l l
 Sir H. Hardinge  thought, that the reduction in the number of the clerks in Pall-mall, and at the Tower, had been quite as great as the quantity of public business would allow. In 1818, the number of clerks was 187, since which time no less than 26 had been removed, although the barrack and commissariat departments had both been transferred to the Ordnance. As to the objection made by the hon. member respecting the old stores, he begged to point out that this was the mode particularly recommended by the military finance committee, and had been adopted in consequence of that recommendation. With respect to the absence of the Lieutenant-general, he could assure the committee that, although the noble lord had been unavoidably absent on private business, the conduct of the Board of Ordnance had been perfectly justifiable. It was well known, that lord Beresford had been connected with the Portuguese Government, and had commanded the Portuguese army. For some time he was separated from it, and on his return from Rio Janeiro, he was not allowed to land at Lisbon. He came to England, and when a favourable opportunity offered, he applied to be allowed to return to Portugal. He went thither in the beginning of October, and about the end of November, the Master-general of the Ordnance wrote to lord Beresford, stating that it would be exceedingly desirable that he should return before the end of December, because the duties of the Lieutenant-general pressed very heavily upon the Master-general, and other members of the Board. Lord Beresford had written back, that he could not arrange his private affairs so soon, and therefore that he must resign. Upon him, therefore, there did not rest the slightest imputation. The duties of his office might be considered in a two-fold light: first it was the business of the Lieutenant-general to act in the absence of the Master-general; and secondly, he had to discharge his own functions as a Board Offi-
 534 l l
 Sir H. Hardinge  defended the propriety of keeping a large body of artillery on foot. It was a corps of all others the most difficult to raise. If a war broke out, it could not be created in a moment; and therefore it was necessary to have a considerable force of that description in readiness.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that by the regulation of 1814, it was arranged, that the officers of the horse-artillery, should succeed to the brigade, not according to their regimental rank in the corps, but with reference to their brevet rank in the army. In 1818, the Master-general thought it advisable to alter that arrangement. When the death of the commander of the brigade took place, sir B. Bloom-field was, from his rank in the army, the officer next entitled to the command; and as the Master-general felt, that the new regulation would have a retrospective effect with reference to him, he, from a sense of justice, declined enforcing it. It was, however, now settled, that officers should succeed to battalions, according to their rank in the corps, coupled with their general merits.
 Mr. Hume  said, he understood a new system had been lately adopted in the artillery. Individuals had been allowed to sell out, in order that others might receive promotion in that corps. He wished to know when that practice first took place; the promotions in consequence; and how far the public expense had been thereby increased.
 Mr. Hume  said, he founded his objection on the statement of ministers, who had declared that there was no chance of war. They denied that a war was at all likely to occur; and therefore there was no necessity for such a force. l
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask for some explanation as to the circumstances under which sir Benjamin Bloomfield had been brought back to the artillery corps, and had been taken from half-pay to the com-
 537
 Mr. Hume,  in reply, said, that he had expected to hear some reason assigned for the magnitude of the establishment of the Ordnance, being reduced as it was to what was termed by the gallant officer the lowest amount. No reply had been attempted to what he had advanced as to the propriety of further economy, it was no answer to say, that 90,000 l 535 l l
 Mr. Hume  called the attention of the committee to the sums included in this last resolution, for officers of the Ordnance in the Islands of Zante and Corfu. This country ought not to be called upon to make good this sum; inasmuch as by a
 536 l
 Mr. Hume  begged to repeat briefly the objections he had formerly urged to the vote for so large a sum of money for such a purpose. He thought the numbers of the corps of artillery a great deal too large. It was happily never wanted at home, was never likely to be wanted, and was not sent abroad; so that, in fact, in time of peace, it was wholly useless, and a needless expense to the country. There were 5,691 artillery, besides supernumeraries, making in the whole a force of 7,256 men. This establishment was, at the present moment, considerably more than double what it had been at the beginning of the last French war. The artillery could not be of the slightest use without a large regular army; and if three or four battalions were reduced, there would still remain a larger proportion than was at all necessary for the present amount of the army of the empire. He did not complain of the artillery, which was a most efficient body; but there might be too much of a good thing, and a very considerable reduction might be effected, to bring it to the proportion of the rest of our military establishment.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he must do the hon. and gallant officer the justice to say, that in many respects the Ordnance estimates of the present year were much superior, in point of arrangement, to any that had heretofore been prepared. Whatever difference of opinion there might be with respect to the amount of those estimates, whoever looked at them would immediately find himself capable of comprehending all the items and charges without the slightest difficulty. In that respect certainly great progress had been made in improvement, and so far much good had been secured to the public. He thought, however, he could very clearly prove to the committee, that the reduction which had taken place in the expenses of the Ordnance, was by no means so great as they had a right to expect. The committee of Finance, in the year 1817, had given what might be considered an approximation to what they considered was the reduction to be justly expected at certain periods, in every department of the public service. He held in his hand an abstract of the respective amount of the Ordnance estimates voted since the year 1817; and the committee would, perhaps, be surprised to learn, that the grant in 1819 (exclusive of the unprovided services) amounted only to 1,191,905 l l 530 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 531 l l l 532 l l l l s. s. l l 533 s. s. l l
 Mr. Hume  deprecated any decision on the part of the House, which would go to shut its doors against the complaints of the people. If he understood his hon. and learned friend who presented the petition rightly, the petitioner was ready to verify the truth of his allegations, not only on his own oath, but by the testimony of other witnesses. Recollecting that such was the statement of his hon. and learned friend, he could not but consider him rather hardly dealt with, when hon. members imputed to him the attempt to identify himself with the petition. He knew nothing of the particulars of the petition, but from the spirit with which it was met, there appeared something like a grudge, which excited in his mind a degree of suspicion. Let, however, the complaint be received; let the petitioner at least be allowed to lay his statement on the table, and then, if an investigation should take place, the merits of the case would be understood. This would be acting upon the principle of justice to all parties. But, at all events, there was this higher question; namely, that the doors of the House of Commons ought to be thrown open to the petitions of the people.
 Mr. Hume  said, that an attempt had been made to fix a mistake on his hon. friend, without any good ground. The vote for this year was 136,351 l l l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. Hume  begged to have some explanation of a charge of 40,000 l l
 Mr. Hume  asked the hon. secretary for the Treasury, whether the country was ever to be released from the absurd practice of paying its own servants an extra salary for doing their own business? It was strange indeed, that the Treasury could not disburse the public money without exacting fees for it. Besides this vote of 1,400 l l
 Mr. Hume,  in reply, observed that if the chancellor of the Exchequer would grant him a committee next month, he would go into the business of it with great pleasure. As to the patent fees, he had no hesitation in saying, that he should recommend them to be bought up.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the unnecessary-expense imposed upon the public for keeping up the powder-mills at Ballin-collig, in Ireland. He wished to know whether it was the intention of ministers to persevere in their demands for that establishment from year to year? It appeared that the public paid 1,200 l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that so long as these
 544 l
 Mr. Hume  said, he could not allow such a sum to be voted without some observation. The House was not aware of the situation in which the country was placed, from its being studded all over with barracks as it was at present. In the year 1797, when we had as many troops as at the present moment, the whole expense for barracks only amounted to 29,000 l l s. l l
 Mr. Hume  did not mean to blame the arrangement. He rather hoped, that the same benefit would be extended to an other corps, in which the promotion was in the same deplorable condition—.the marine corps. The statement of the number of years service of several members of this corps would surprise the House; and besides the slowness of the promotion, they had been deprived of 25,000 l
 Mr. Hume  protested against this "constitutional link," and he had no doubt, out of 100 officers of the marines, there would not be one who did not consider this as a hardship.
 Mr. Hume  remarked, that there was in the cadets in this establishment, no such reduction as had been last year promised. It was quite absurd to educate a number of youths at a considerable expense, whom there was no possibility of providing with commissions.
 Mr. Hume  said, that whatever the gallant admiral might think, there was no inconsistency in his opposition to the increase of the corps, and his present remarks. The corps had been distinguished
 539
 Mr. Hume  said, he by no means complained of the government, that they could not find commissions for these young men. They acted much better in giving them to the officers on half-pay, who were entitled to them. What he complained of was, that they should go to the expense of educating boys, to whom they only held out expectations which they could not realize. l l
 Mr. Hume  wished to call the attention of the committee to the various charges for the fortifications, &c. of those islands and colonies, no part of the revenue of which was brought to the credit of the general revenue of the empire, but was all expended on governors, secretaries, and local officers. He thought a general inquiry should be instituted into the means of those colonies to bear a portion of the expenses which were now charged on the people of this country. The sums, taken separately, in these estimates, were not large; there was 1,374 l l l s. d. 541 l
 Mr. Hume  said, he observed a sum of 9,000 l
 Mr. Denman  said, he could not give a positive answer, as he understood that an hon. friend would not consent to its being withdrawn.
 Mr. Denman. —Do you mean for five hours in all?
 Mr. Denman  said, he had been quite misunderstood. He did not of himself impute any delay to the right hon. gentleman: he had merely stated, that one of the allegations contained in the petition was, that the memorial had been detained for a considerable time, he had expressed no surprise, nor made any complaint, and for this reason, that he did not know at what date the memorial had reached the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Denman  observed, that although he knew he had no right to reply, yet as he had had so large a share in this business, he trusted the House would allow him to say a few words. It had been supposed by some hon. gentleman, that he had mixed himself too much up with the merits of the petition. Now, the truth was, that he had not offered any opinion whatever on the disputed facts. But those who made that assertion, seemed to forget that the strongest part of the impression made against the petition, consisted of a number of allegations by the hon. and learned attorney-general, who had acted as counsel for the hon. member for Stafford; and yet the House would not listen to the original allegations against which that counter-statement was made. It was very possible that the allegations of the petition were false; but that was no reason for refusing to receive it. It was enough that the petitioner felt himself aggrieved. If his petition was couched in respectful language towards the House, and distinctly stated the grievance of which he complained, he (Mr. D.) conceived, that any member was bound in duty to present it. He did not mean that the serjeant-at-arms might run after him and insist on his doing so; but he was bound in the ordinary acceptation of the term. According to some hon. gentlemen, however, a petitioner, in such a case as the present, was bound rather to make an application to the lord-lieutenant of the county, and then to the court of chancery, to wait at the door there until all the appeals from other courts, the bankrupt causes, the chancery suits, &c, were disposed of, in order that the lord chancellor might then, perhaps, have leisure to examine whether the magistrate complained of ought to be struck out of the commission. Was not the ship-money case a grievance? yet
 525
 Mr. Denman  rose to present a Petition, which he deemed to be one of very considerable importance, especially when he considered the vast powers which had been conferred on magistrates by a late act of parliament. The petition was from a Mr. Charles Flint, complaining of the conduct of a magistrate of the county of Stafford, acting as chairman of the court of Quarter Sessions in that county, who was also a member of that House; and he must say, looking to all the circumstances of the case, that the conduct of that magistrate appeared to call for a considerable degree of inquiry. He had felt it right to communicate to that hon. gentleman (Mr. Chetwynd), the contents of this petition; and, though it was not without pain that he brought forward an imputation on the conduct of any member of that House, he certainly thought that the statements made by the petitioner required to be rebutted by strong circumstances of justification, be-
 505 506 507 508 509 510 l
 Mr. T. Wilson  acknowledged, that his original opinions had been in favour of the repeal, but that the arguments which he had heard in the course of the present evening in opposition to it had very much staggered him. He thought, in the then state of the House, that it was by no means expedient to drive the question to a division.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had been happy to hear the worthy alderman address the House with so much energy, notwithstanding his indisposition, although he could by no means agree with him in the view which he had taken of the subject. The hon. gentleman who spoke last had called upon him to state in what capacity he supported this measure, and had said that it should be brought forward as a government measure. But, it would be very strange if the government were to take it out of the hands of a gentleman who
 567 568
 Mr. Peel  said, that the hon. and learned member seemed to be displeased with him for not reversing the sentence of the Quarter Sessions. With regard to his own individual feelings, he could have no objection to the adoption of that course by the petitioner, with a view to a revision of the case; and if the petition were withdrawn, the case would stand just as favourably as before for that purpose.
 Mr. Peel,  in continuation, said, that on the 6th of December he received the first communication on the subject, and that was contained in a letter from Mr. Tooke, the law-agent of Mr. Flint, and he requested that he might have an opportunity of stating the circumstances of the case to the secretary of state. He was not at all aware of any such trial having taken place, until the receipt of this intimation, and accordingly he sent back an answer to Mr. Tooke, stating, "That if it would be any satisfaction to Mr. Tooke to see Mr. Peel on the subject of Flint's case, he should be ready to receive any communication. But it was Mr. Peel's invariable course not to act upon a statement in any criminal case, that was not communicated in writing." Any one at all acquainted with proceedings in criminal cases, would at once perceive the policy of this rule. Upon the 6th of December he received the first intimation of the transaction, and he immediately applied for information; and on the 17th of the same month he received the answer; so that the period that had elapsed between the 6th and 17th of December was all the delay that had been complained of. Then, with respect to the nature of the inquiry, he in the first instance applied to his hon. friend (Mr. Chetwynd), and he should be ashamed, if, while he professed to repose confidence in him, he had applied to any other. His hon. friend was not content with sending back a short and immediate answer, but had entered into a detail of all the evidence, and had sent besides a literal transcript of the charge which he had delivered to the jury, and had concluded, by requesting him (Mr. Peel) to judge for himself what course he should pursue. It was not his intention to enter into an explanation of the course which he did adopt; he should content himself by stating, that he felt quite satisfied that the sentence was a just and lenient one, and that he would have acted imprudently if he had advised the Crown to interpose the royal prerogative.
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  said, he could not
 520
 Mr. Chetwynd  then rose and addressed the House to the following effect, evidently under the influence of very strong feelings—Mr. Speaker; I rise to present my most earnest prayer that the petition, which has just been presented to the House, may be brought up and read; for I should hold myself unworthy ever again to rise to address you—I should consider myself disqualified from ever again sitting on the justice seat—if, upon the ground of any technical informality, I objected to having the Petition received; or if I gave the slightest opposition to the most complete and unrestricted investigation of each and every one of the allegations it contains. I am, Sir, at this moment prepared to go through the details of that petition sentence by sentence; and, if it shall not ap-
 512
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that on an application from some officers of the marine corps to the Admiralty, they had been informed, that a measure was in progress for their relief, of the same nature as that which had been applied to the artillery; and but for the indisposition of the noble lord at the head of the Admiralty, that measure would have been now in operation. The hon. member, had alluded, to certain honorary offices attached to the marine service, which were given to officers of the navy: but the hon. member should recollect that the naval officers who held these commissions gave up their half-pay, and it would be found that when that was taken; into account, instead of 25,000 l l
 Sir I. Coffin  wished to remind the House, that four years ago, when the marines were increased to 8,000 men, the hon. member had opposed the increase, on the ground that it would "turn the navy into an army." He (sir I. Coffin) had said at that time, that the marines were a most valuable body of men, who had saved the fleet over and over again in mutinies. But for their steady loyalty, we should now have no navy.
 Sir I. Coffin  said, it was absolutely necessary to have a large body of marines; for in the event of a war, the seamen that could be kept together, were only in proportion to the number of marines. You could not put seamen on board without them; they would go in at one side, and out at the other. The hon. member knew nothing about them. How the devil should he (sir I. Coffin) dislike the marines? Had he not served with them forty years? They were most useful to the navy, and had saved the fleet over and over again. l
 Sir John Wrottesley  said, he had signed the resolution of the magistrates passed in approbation of the conduct of the chairman and concurred in every thing that had been advanced by the Attorney-general upon the same subject. He had, however, made one reservation, which had not been strictly observed; namely, that the resolution should not be directly published. His reason for thinking it unfit for present publication was, that the conduct of his worthy and excellent friend, the chairman, had been attacked in one of the public Journals, the British Press, in a manner which he would not stigmatize with any particular epithets
 521
 Sir Robert Wilson  said, he had listened with great attention to all that had been offered by hon. members against the reception of the petition. The hon. member for Surrey had opposed it, on the ground of the hardships to which the magistracy of the country who were not orators and rhetoricians, or so well able to defend themselves as the hon. member for Stafford, would be exposed, if petitions of the character of the present, were received by that House. The learned Attorney-general had opposed the reception, because he denied the truth of its allegations. The hon. member himself, whose conduct was attacked, with a feeling that was highly creditable to him, had expressed a solicitude to have the whole proceedings inquired into. He knew nothing of the particulars, but after such an avowal by the hon. member for Stafford, he considered the conduct of his friends at least injudicious. The new tone assumed that night, in speaking of the petitions of the people, ought to be met in the commencement with reprehension. Were the doors of the House of Commons to be closed against the people of England? If he stood alone he should divide the House against such an attempt.
 Sir J. Newport  wished to know whether the long projected survey of Ireland was to take place on the trigonometrical plan. If they were to wail as long for this survey of Ireland, as they had done for the completion of the same survey in Great Britain, he should protest against the measure. Valuable as the survey of Ireland would be for the distribution of the grand jury assessment—in other words, for equalizing the taxation of Ireland-he thought the trigonometrical plan perfectly inapplicable. When completed it would be nearly a nullity and of little use, compared with a parochial survey and valuation.
 Sir J. Newport  said, it was now nine years since he had brought down a recommendation from a committee for this survey. He was about to bring in a bill on the subject, when the government undertook to proceed with the measure; but not one step had yet been made.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he would appeal to any military officer, whether many of the barracks in Ireland were not improperly constructed. A great number of them had been built during the last fourteen years, and if they had been well built, could scarcely have required such I incessant and expensive repairs.
 Sir J. Newport  did not deny the talents of the officer alluded to, but he denied that such a consideration could justify the government in keeping up a set of mills at a large expense, which were found to be wholly unnecessary. The proper mode of rewarding his services would be by a pension, and not by an agreement of the kind alluded to.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said:—Sir, there is no man who heard the hon. and learned gentleman's speech—no member of the profession to which he belongs—no one of the friends by whom he is surrounded, who is ready to make more allowance than I am for the feelings which he has evinced, or to render a more sincere tribute of praise for the moderation and propriety with which he has expressed them. He has displayed an anxiety that is highly creditable to free himself from an imputation which, as far as my testimony goes, he is not subject to; for, without being enough of a professional man to be aware thoroughly of the importance of the distinction between what the hon. and learned gentleman stated the other night, and what he elsewhere was understood to have stated, I can most unequivocally declare, that in his argument that night, the impression on my mind was, that he did not go out of his way for the purpose of throwing imputations on the lord chancellor, or of making what has happened in the court of Chancery, matter of individual blame,—and not the result of a faulty system. Such, Sir, was the impression on my mind; and if my testimony had been required, I should have been as ready to state elsewhere, as I am to state here, that there was nothing uttered by the hon. and learned member on that occasion which went beyond the fair line of discussion, or which could justifiably furnish a ground of personal offence. Admitting this, Sir, I can feel also, that the hon. and learned gentleman, strong in the recollection of his purpose at the time, and of his mode of executing that purpose, could not have avoided feeling surprise and indignation at finding his speech stamped with terms of so gross a character as those which have been applied to it. But, Sir, in his statement to the House, the hon. and
 585 586 587
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that he was by no means inclined to pursue the course just recommended, namely, for the House to take the first step, and then to meet the difficulties that must inevitably present themselves. It was his opinion, that it would be infinitely better calmly to weigh those difficulties before the House was involved in them. There were here two questions that seemed to have been confounded; first, had there been any breach of the privileges of the House, or such a breach as it was expedient to notice? secondly, had there been any attempt to threaten any member of the learned profession, in order to deter him from the discharge of his duty? The latter appeared to him infinitely the more important; for a breach of privilege was of far less consequence than it would be to consider whether there had been an attack upon the independence of a member of parliament. As to the first question, it was certainly very difficult for any individual to say in how many instances in the day the privileges of the House were infringed. Members themselves were guilty of constant breaches; and within the last two years constant and irregular references had been made to the proceedings in the House of Lords. The grosser offence was avoided by talking of "another place," and of speeches delivered there; but this was a mere evasion; and perhaps it would be much better to make direct allusions, and at once to answer remarks made by the peers, than to resort to this apparently unworthy expedient. It was most material to this discussion, to remember, that the origin of it was a direct breach of privilege, at which the House connived—namely, the publication of its proceedings. It had the power to enforce its orders; but he admitted that it was much wiser to continue the permission, than to put a stop to the practice. There was a balance of evils; but the advantage predominated in favour of the publication of debates. Yet great inconveniences sometimes arose, and the present was a striking and pregnant proof of the mischief. The hon. and learned member had made a speech reflecting on an individual—it was printed next morning, and it was wafted,
 606 607 608 609 togati, 610
 The Solicitor-General  said, he had read in a morning paper what purported to have been a report of the speech of his hon. and learned friend in that House on Tuesday last. He was convinced that no such speech fell from his hon. and learned friend, but that what he had actually said was quite different from what in that paper was reported to have been said by him. The report made his hon. and learned friend say that the noble and learned lord had evaded the fair construction of the vice-chancellor's Bill, and by doing so, had brought expense upon the parties, and disparagement on a brother judge. He would ask any hon. gentleman who heard him, if such a charge were made against him if, in whatever capacity he might stand, so serious and so shameful a breach of his duty were charged upon him—would not his feelings be irritated? If his hon. and learned friend would attend to what was stated in the
 591 592 ad libitum 593
 The Attorney General  rose to offer a few observations to the House on the present occasion. The impression on his mind, with respect to the attack which the noble and learned lord was accused of making, was, that the noble and learned lord had no intention of making any such attack, but was desirous merely of defending himself from an attack which had been made against himself. He begged the House to consider the situation in which the lord chancellor, or any other individual, was placed, who might be made the object of certain charges which should be circulated throughout the country without contradiction. The debate, in the course of which the speech of his hon. and learned friend had been made, took place on Tuesday; the newspaper in which a report of it was inserted was published on Wednesday. In that report—which he admitted was an incorrect one—the lord chancellor was charged with very extensive malversation in his office, with having perverted the practice of the court of Chancery; and with having evaded the law itself for a most degrading purpose—namely, that of elevating himself, at the expense of another judge who was sitting in the same court. Could any thing, he asked, be more galling to the mind of the noble individual against whom it was made than such a charge? That charge, thus supposed to have been made within the walls of parliament, had been circulated throughout the kingdom for several days, when the expressions of the lord chancellor, now alluded to, had been used. But, would it not be fair to inquire whether his hon. and learned friend had in the interval, taken any steps to correct this mis-statement? Did he come down to the House and call for its censure upon the individual who had circulated a libel, as untrue and as unfair as it regarded him-
 598 599
 Mr. Wynn  said, that whatever difference of opinion might prevail in their view of the result of this motion, there was one point upon which they were all agreed; namely, that nothing had been said by the hon. and learned gentleman to justify the comments which had been made on his speech; but he nevertheless felt that if what was said did not justify the language which it had afterwards called forth, the misrepresentation of it certainly went some way in excusing those comments. He had long attended to questions of breach of privilege in that House, and he could not class the present case among that number. He was aware that he should be exposed to the imputation of having diminished his zeal for the maintenance of their rights and privileges;
 617 618 corpus delicti 619
 Mr. Bankes  said, that in this vote he observed that some of the repairs now going on in the neighbourhood of the House were included. He apprehended that the works at the House of Lords with the new avenue, were also included in it. Now he could not help taking notice, on this occasion, of the very unsatisfactory manner in which these alterations had been performed. He wished, before the House came to the vote, to have an opportunity of knowing what further was to be done in respect of them; and particularly how far the work of destruction of those ancient and venerable monuments of art, that once surrounded the House of Lords and the parts adjacent, was intended to be carried? He was very sure that had the House, last session, been aware of the mischief that was to be done, they never would have sanctioned the proceedings of those, who had demolished so much of the remains of the most interesting edifices. He himself had been a witness of the demolition of a part of that old palace at Westminster, near the House of Lords, anciently called the Prince's chamber,—a fabric, the side of which was now converted into something that he would not mention; but that was not excuseable upon the ground even of being necessary; yet these were ruins, the interest of which was connected with a period of some antiquity and of much celebrity. The palace was of a time not later, he was sure, than the reign of Edward III. It was quite unnecessary to destroy this very curious relic; because, without interfering with any design that had been in unison with it, it would have been perfectly easy to underprop what remained of the building. He was also desirous to know what had been the expenses already incurred in that very strange and anomalous building which
 624
 Mr. Herries  said, that there was an account of expenses at present incurred in these public works, amounting to 10,800 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  confessed that he was not all surprised that this subject should have attracted the attention of the House. He did think it necessary that some alteration should take place in the system upon which these works were carried on. The answer to the hon. member for Shrewsbury must be what his hon. friend anticipated in asking the question; the architect was Mr. Soane; the authority under which these alterations had taken place, was the Board of Works; and he thought it very desirable that henceforward the public respon-
 625
 Mr. Herries  answered, that the expenditure referred to was not included in that estimate.
 Mr. Herries  observed, that the vote now before the committee had nothing to do with the royal palace of St. James's, a charge on the civil list of 40,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as to the palace of St. James, he could not see that the repairs ought to occasion any reproach for want of taste, since the national character of that building had been entirely preserved; and he thought that what had been done would be found of material advantage to the public, so far as they were concerned; and doubtless they were concerned in having a proper access to the royal par lace. He agreed in what had been said on the subject of royal palaces in town. He admitted that there was not a royal residence in London at all commensurate with the wealth of the country, or the dignity of the monarch. The hon. gentler man must, however, be aware, that to build a palace on a commensurate scale of magnificence, would create a very great expense. Besides, it should be recollected, that the alterations at St. James's had been commenced under circumstances extremely different from those which prevailed at the present moment. He apprehended, that if, two years ago, a million, or a million and a half, had been demanded for the erection of a palace, such a proposition would not have been received with any great degree of approbation.
 Colonel Davies  did not think the alteration was a good one. St. James's palace looked more like an almshouse than a kingly residence, and was a disgrace to the country.
 Sir C. Long  said, it was absolutely necessary to grant money for this purpose, if they wished to keep the buildings in existence. As to the question of taste, which had been referred to, the committee to whom allusion had been made, had nothing to do with the charge that had been insinuated against them. Of that committee, his hon. friend (Mr. Bankes), as well as himself was a member; and his hon. friend must know, that their business was limited to the deciding on drawings for national monuments. With regard to the new courts (he would not call them Grecian, for certainly their architecture was not Grecian; nor any thing else that he knew of), the only reason he could perceive for building them by the door of Westminster-hall was, that there had been buildings there before.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had stated last year that he should not feel justified in asking for the sum he then called for, unless he could refer to the limit of expense which was likely to be necessary for the completion of this work. When he was preparing the estimates at that period, he had communicated with the commissioners and the letter which he received in consequence had answered the question he had put. There was only one object to be attained; namely; that of making the depth of the canal uniformly 20 feet throughout its whole extent; and the sum now called for would accomplish that object. All, therefore, that was likely to be required for the work itself, was the vote now before the committee. There was, however, another point which related to the outstanding claims of individuals through whose lands the canal had been cut. It would be an extreme injustice to many parties, if claims of that nature were not considered: it would be most unfair to take their lands, and afford them no remuneration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had no doubt that the view of the commissioners was correct and that the present vote would be sufficient to complete the work.
 Mr. Herries  said, that that question had been asked officially, but the answer bad not yet arrived. The result of his private inquiries had certainly not been very satisfactory.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the hon., gentleman would bid, he should be happy to receive his tender.
 Mr. Bankes  objected to the abominable taste in which new buildings of a different order of architecture had been grafted on to the old Gothic, and which had been
 633
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted quite as much as his hon. friend, the existence of the unpleasant excrescence of which he had so deservedly complained. He had seen it for the first time in the course of last year, when the foundations were already laid, and it was unfortunately too late to put a stop to the building. The only amends which could now be made was to take care that nothing else should be erected so unsightly as the project to which his hon. friend adverted. As to an estimate of the expense for completing the building, the House might, if it thought necessary, have a more detailed statement laid before it; but he could have no objection to say that 10,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that without the grant now asked for, the canal would be utterly useless. In its present state, a vessel that went in at one end, could not, from the want of depth, get out at the other. The compensation claims could not be so settled as to become the subject of an immediate return, as any demand which seemed unreasonable would have to be assessed by a jury.
 Mr. Calvert  said, that the materials might, almost all of them, be sold, or worked up again; so that the loss would be only the price of the labour.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when he alluded on a former night to Windsor Castle, he had purposely not entered into details; but he had no difficulty in stating, that when he proposed to the House to vote the sum, he should be ready to give an account of the alterations intended. On a former occasion he had mentioned, that it was his intention to place the money in the hands of commissioners appointed for the purpose; and he had no doubt that those gentlemen would fully consider the subject to which the hon. gentleman had adverted. Nothing he was sure, would be done to destroy the general character of the building; but such conveniences would be added, and such alterations made as were necessary.
 Mr. Bernal  deprecated this mode of proceeding. His hon. friend seemed to forget, that the party most interested in this question was the public. At present great inconvenience was experienced for want of courts, and if the motion for postponement were carried, suitors would suffer considerably.
 The Solicitor General  said, he approved of the buildings as little as any man could do; but when the question was, whether they were to go on or the public be exposed to very great inconvenience, he could have no hesitation in voting for the resolution.
 Mr. Baring  hoped that a better system would be followed with regard to the New Post-office, and complained that there was nobody connected with the government who was responsible for these ridiculous buildings.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said that as to the Post-office, the House would be aware, that the committee to which the subject had been referred had thought it right to recommend premiums for the best architectural design. This had been done, and as it could not be ex-
 635
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had not alluded to this subject the other night, out of delicacy to the individual alluded to. He was fully sensible of the extraordinary liberality of that individual, and he trusted that it would lay the foundation of a splendid national collection.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that sir George Beaumont had given his collection to the British Museum, and that it could not therefore be sent to any other building. There it would be in conjunction with those other collections
 636
 Sir C. Long  explained, that sir George Beaumont's gift had been to the British Museum, and was intended to remain in conjunction with other works of art deposited there.
 Mr. Gordon  wished to know from his majesty's government, what was intended to be done with this establishment. It was now unoccupied, and had been so
 637
 Mr. Gordon  said, he did not mean to find fault with the removal of the prisoners. He was sure it proceeded from motives of humanity, but he thought they should not now be called upon to defray the annual expenditure when the institution was empty.
 Colonel Davies  objected generally to this vote. In the first place, admitting the justice of a part of the demand, it was much too large; but he could not see upon what plea of justice, or of common sense, we should be called upon now to grant salaries to men for sacrifices which had been made, not for us, but for the interests of their lawful sovereign. He thought it exceedingly hard that now, after the restoration of the Bourbons, England should be saddled with the burthen of paying Frenchmen for supposed, services, which, if they were ever performed, were done for the purpose of restoring the French monarch to the throne. This vote, to say the least of it, was extremely questionable. With respect to the St. Domingo sufferers, they perhaps had some claim; but, after the reduction, which he meant to propose, a very liberal allowance would still remain for them. He should, therefore propose, "That instead of 16,520 l., l.
 Mr. Herries  said, that the increase, arose from a transfer of a balance of last year's account, which made an apparent
 639 l.
 Mr. Gordon  concurred in the opposition to this vote, and thought his hon. friend had put the subject on its proper footing. Let parliament refuse the grant, and government would soon do away with it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that at the time of the peace, the government had felt it its duty to see how far a beneficial arrangement could be made. The negotiation set on foot with the French government at that time had this effect, that all persons who were French emigrants merely were to be taken off the list; and accordingly they are now actually supported by the French king. But the case of the others was widely different. Their claim was founded upon services rendered to us in the war against France, not as subjects of Louis; but they were services of a confidential nature, which actually had enabled us to carry on the war against the enemy; and, having enjoyed the benefit of these services, it would be hard if we compelled the French government to take upon themselves the burthen of compensation. It was true, that Toulon was taken in the name of the French king, and the vessels were surrendered to us under the name Of France We had had the benefit of them, and it would be too much now to call upon the French king to make good the expense.
 Colonel Davies  said, that these vessels were taken to prevent them from falling into the hands of the republicans. Instead of a hardship, he thought it would not be going too far to call upon Louis to make some compensation for the blood and. treasure we had lavished in effecting his restoration. He thought these people had no more claim upon us than upon the emperor of China, and was quite satisfied that many of them were receiving pensions from the French government.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was impossible that that could be the case, because before they received their pensions in this country, they were obliged to sign a declaration, stating, that they received no pension or allowance from the French government, that they were not in the service or employment of any foreign power, and that they had no other means of subsistence besides their pension.
 Colonel Dawes  said, he had no wish to
 640
 Mr. Tennyson  observed, that the buildings of the old palace at Westminster were almost sacred in this country, as the birth-place or abode of our early kings and princes. The hon. member for Corfe Castle had well remarked, that they seemed all now devoted to destruction. It might be necessary to remove some part to make room for the new buildings carrying on in the vicinity; but what had become of the painted chamber, about the beauty of which so much had been said? What was the character of the building raised in its place? Could any thing be more incongruous, or more inconsistent? He understood it was also the intention to remove the House of Lords; which, by the by, was about the very finest room in London. But in what taste was it proposed to rebuild the House?—In the Gothic; or the Grecian? The hon. gentleman animadverted in strong terms on the incongruous absurdities that were manifested in the modern additions of mongrel architecture evinced in the new entrance to the House of Lords, and expressed his obligations to the hon. member for Corfe Castle for bringing forward the matter.
 Mr. Holford  observed, that it had been necessary to remove the officers of the institution, as well as the prisoners, and that also had added to the expense.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, in explanation, that he had not stated that there was any difficulty as to the course which the House ought now to pursue. On the contrary, there could be no doubt of the propriety of acceding to the present mo-
 611
 Mr. Tierney  said:—I had originally no intention of obtruding myself upon the House, but after what has passed, the question seems to me of such immense importance to our most vital rights and privileges, that I should think I disgraced myself if I gave a silent vote, and if I did not state why I think the mode recommended by my hon. and learned friend ought to be supported by every man who hears me. Let us look a little at the real condition of the question. My hon. and learned friend comes down to the House, and makes a complaint
 600 601 602 603 604 605
 Mr. G. Bennet  said, he was still uninformed who was the architect, and who the members of the committee of taste, at the time when his plans were furnished.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, he would support the motion of the member for Corfe Castle. For his own part, he wished the hon. Secretary would inform the committee who the architect was, in order that the public might know whom to avoid. While he wished that they might not again run the risk of wasting so much money, and of decidedly violating every thing like taste, he was equally anxious to know who they were, who had overlooked the plans for these alterations, in order that such supervisors might not be put again in requisition.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  thought this sum of 40,000 l.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  had understood, that there were extensive projects in agitation
 634
 Mr. Bright  admitted that they had no palace in England at all to be compared with those which were to be found in other countries. Still, be was decidedly opposed to the expenditure of a large sum of money on the erection of a new palace.
 Mr. Brougham  said—If the only parties, Sir, here this night were lord Eldon and my hon. and learned friend,—if the only objects were, the putting my hon. and learned friend in the right, and the putting the lord chancellor in the wrong, I should be satisfied that justice has been done to both parties, and that both objects have been gained; the first object by my hon. and learned friend's own speech; the second, by the admissions of the right hon. secretary, in his defence of his noble colleague—a defence, the candour of which was great, the fairness not little, and of which the moderation and the skill are equally deserving of praise. A defence indeed of the lord chancellor, it can hardly be called, it is an admission of the charge against the noble and learned lord, and an humble, he would not say submissive, and by no means injudicious speech in extenuation. But, Sir, besides my hon. and learned friend, besides the lord
 588 589 castigatque auditque. 590
 Mr. Abercromby  rose, and addressed the House to the following effect: 572 573 574 575 576 577 578 579 580 581 582 583 584
 Mr. Abercromby , in reply, said, he should detain the House but for a very few moments. It was, indeed, unnecessary for him to do so, after the candid manner in which hon. members opposite had added their suffrages to those of his hon. friends, in expressing their conviction, that nothing which had been said by him, in the discharge of his duty as a member of that House, ought to have exposed him to the animadversions which had been made on his conduct. The paper in question undoubtedly did not contain a true report of what had been said by him in his place. With respect to the course which the House ought now to pursue, it would be for the House itself to determine. He should only beg leave to state the grounds on which he had acted in bringing forward, with as much impartiality as possible, a question in which he felt so deep a personal interest. It was obvious in the first place, that he might have taken a course which was not without precedent, namely, that of treating this as a transaction in which he himself was alone interested. But he felt that it would be impossible to bring the case before the House without considering it as one in which its own privileges were involved; and in taking this view of
 622
 Mr. Croker  agreed with his right hon. friend, that there ought to be a responsible person in that House, answerable as well for the plan as for the execution of all great national works. It was not merely the expense which must attend this or any other work, nor its inapplicability to the purpose for which it was erected, but also the disgrace which it might reflect on the national taste, that ought to be considered by parliament. Taking this view of the subject, he had always thought that the discretion would be best lodged with the Treasury; and he was glad to find that his right hon. friend was of the same opinion. He was certain that, when they saw there was a real control over the erection of public works; when they saw that a system of good taste was adhered to; the people would no longer allow themselves to be charged, as had hitherto been the case, with niggardliness in granting sufficient funds for the construction of necessary public buildings, because they would not wish to sanction the formation of a structure that would only be a monument of their own disgrace. He had seen it stated in the newspapers, that that fine ancient edifice, the painted chamber, was about to be taken down, that building which five hundred years ago was denominated  perillustre gew-gaws 627
 Mr. Croker  thought the eastern wing of Somerset-house would make, if completed, a noble picture gallery, and would be capable of receiving all the works of art we were ever likely to possess. He would suggest, that the east wing of Somerset-house would form an excellent place for the exhibition, which at present was at the very top of the house. The apartments were not large enough, and some pictures were obliged to be hung up in unfavourable places. He should therefore be very well pleased to see the recommendation of the hon. baronet carried into effect, and the east wing of Somerset house completed and appropriated to the exhibition. The apartments at present appropriated to it might be given to the Royal Society for their library, as they had a great number of books lying in cases.
 Mr. J. Smith  hoped that this was the last vote that would be demanded on account of this canal. Would the right hon. gentleman give them a direct assurance that this was clearly, substantively, and  bona fide
 Mr. Warre  was glad to have at last a confession from the secretary of the
 632
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the income arising from the canal was ever likely to support the current charge?.
 Mr. Hume  had understood, ten years ago, that the greater part of the landowners concerned had acquiesced in the canal cutting without compensation. He was afraid that some claims had been set up from the facility with which others had been allowed. His opinion was, that as these were speculating times, the chancellor of the Exchequer should get some company to take the thing off his hands.
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether, in the estimate now before the committee, the expenditure for the repairs of St. James's Palace was included?
 Mr. Hume  spoke of the condition of the Record-office behind Abingdon-street. Having occasion last session to consult some records, he found it impossible to decipher them, such was their damp and neglected state. It was true the building was fire-proof; but the access to it was singularly inconvenient. Himself and his friends were obliged to go, in single file, up a narrow staircase, between walls that were seven feet in thickness, but little calculated for the
 626
 Mr. Hume  thought that, looking at the state of those buildings, it would be better to pull down the whole of them and erect a new palace. We ought to have a palace suitable to the dignity of the monarch of this country, instead of suffering ourselves to be laughed at by every state in Europe, for not having a building fit for a royal residence. The most petty sovereigns abroad were possessed of much finer buildings in every respect, than those in which our sovereign was lodged. It would be much better to take down St. James's palace, than to squander away large sums in tasteless repairs.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the great expense of the officers, which was no less than 6,000 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the proposition. He had hoped, that this year a considerable reduction would have been made instead of which he found an increase. It appeared to him, that on the restoration of Louis 18th to his throne, it was the duty of ministers to have stipulated that he should have provided for his adherents; and he still hoped, that the application might not be made in vain. However, of this he was quite sure, that the only way for the House to make the government exert themselves in the matter, would be to refuse the grant.
 Mr. R. Colborne  took that opportunity of bearing testimony to the liberality of sir George Beaumont, who had made a noble gift of a beautiful collection of pictures to the Museum. The collection, though small, contained some of the finest specimens of the ancient masters, and he trusted it would form the foundation of an extensive and valuable gallery. To bequeath such a collection to the nation would have been liberal in any man; but it was doubly liberal to give it during his life time. He was confident the example would have both admirers and imitators.
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought the vote should be suspended until a return could be obtained of all further claims that were likely to accrue from the canal; including claims on the score of compensation.
 Mr. James  said, they ought not to think of building a new palace until the war-taxes were taken off.
 Mr. Peel  said, that although the penitentiary was empty at present, the prisoners had been removed to the Hulks, and this vote went to provide for their maintenance. In addition to this, some alterations were rendered necessary, which necessarily increased the expenditure.
 Mr. Peel  said, that the policy of having commenced that building had been often discussed, so that it was needless now to discuss it. It was from motives of humanity, that the prisoners had been removed from it in the course of last year. As to what might hereafter become of it, he should not take upon himself the responsibility of sending back the prisoners without the fullest inquiry. In consequence of a conversation with an hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Bennet), whose intention it was, to move for the re-appointment of the committee of last year, he thought it unnecessary to say more upon the subject now, than to assure the House, that when that committee should he appointed, the whole question would be investigated.
 Mr. Peel  said, that if the report could throw any useful light on the subject, he
 638
 Mr. W. Smith  thought, that the eastern wing of Somerset-house ought to be completed. For thirty years that part of this building had remained in a half-finished state; as if the nation had not had a single farthing to bestow on purposes of national ornament.
 Mr. W. Smith , though he found no fault with the original devising of the canal, believed nevertheless that it would never pay its current charges and the interest of the money spent upon it. The present vote was a trifle after so much expense; yet he was inclined to wait for the return, on account of the claims to compensation. If proper arrangements had been made in the commencement of the undertaking, there was scarcely a proprietor who would not have been glad to have had the canal pass through his lands without claiming, or thinking of claiming any compensation at all.
 Mr. W. Williams  fully concurred in every statement which had fallen from his hon. friend, except one. He did not think it was necessary that the building should go on. He would recommend, instead of granting 40,000 l. l.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, he would rather the public should suffer some temporary, inconvenience, than that such buildings should remain as a monument to posterity of the bad taste of the present age.
 Mr. Williams  said, that he should move that the present vote be postponed.
 Mr. W. Williams  confessed that, generally speaking, he was not very friendly to the vigorous exertion and enforcement of the privileges of that House; and, during the time he had had the honour of a seat in parliament, he had witnessed several instances in which he thought they had been so exerted, under circumstances of considerable injustice to individuals. But in this case, the question was, not so much whether the House would enforce its privileges, as whether, when a grave charge was made against one of its members by an individual holding the highest judicial situation in the country, the
 620 621
 Sir James Mackintosh  said:—I can assure the House, that I shall, for my own sake, trespass for as short a time as possible upon their attention, for I rise at no small personal inconvenience; but I cannot refrain from making a few observations on a question, which is undoubtedly one of vital importance, convinced as I feel that the rejection of the present motion would be one of the most fatal blows that was ever struck at the privileges of the House of Commons, and through them, at the constitution of parliament. The right hon. Secretary, after the manner of a practised logician has raised inferences from the motion which it by no means warrants, when fairly and rationally considered. The motion now under Consideration is, in plain terms, whether we shall receive the accessary evidence to establish the alleged fact of a breach of the privileges of this House, aggravated by a false charge against one of its members. I do not charge the chancellor with any intention of intimidating the gentlemen of the bar, or of deterring any individual member of the profession from the performance of his duty, by holding out threats delivered from the judgment-seat, which may have a tendency to influence the conduct of such members of the profession as have likewise seats in this House. Undoubtedly, such an intention would be a great aggravation of the breach of the privileges of this House; and I agree with my hon. and learned friend in thinking, that the House is bound to inquire, in justice to the character of that profession, which would be tarnished and degraded by the rejection of this motion, f the Ho use refuse to inquire into the charge now made against the Lord Chancellor of England, they will cast a stigma upon that profession of which I had once the honour to be an humble member, and the members of which ought for ever to be excluded from this House, if they are to be placed in a state of miserable and precarious dependence on the judges of the courts. There is a charge of further aggravation of the breach of the privileges of this House, which is one of the greatest magnitude. What was the nature of the debate which gave rise to the present discussion? An inquiry into the
 612 613 614 615 616
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that the system of undistinguishing destruction with respect to ancient royal palaces, and other venerable buildings, which had been so prevalent of late years was not in unison with the feelings and sentiments of English men, and had certainly been carried a great deal too far. The most venerable remains of antiquity had been removed with very little regret or consideration. The palace of Westminster was of very great antiquity, and ought to be held in peculiar reverence, in consequence of the scenes which, in former times, had taken place in it. It was there that the constitution of this country was finally settled. It ought, not therefore, to be touched. The pulling down of buildings which had been the scene of such important and interesting transactions was almost sacrilegious. It tended to destroy national feeling and moral sentiment. It was calculated to weaken that due veneration which ought to be cherished for what had been so well done by our ancestors, and which had been left by them as a sacred legacy to their posterity. For upwards of three hundred years the conferences between the two Houses of Parliament had been held in the painted chamber; and he should greatly lament if any profane hand were suffered to pull it down. He could not help adverting to the new building which now showed its front so impudently in the face of Westminster Abbey. That building was called Grecian—for no other reason that he could conceive, but that it was not English, it was not national so it had been denominated Grecian. He only regretted, if a necessity existed for the erection of the new courts, that it should have been carried to the north entrance of Westminster-hall, which had been so well restored, but which was now disgraced and deformed by the contiguity of the new structure. As an hon. friend observed to him, that building, if it were Grecian, must be of the Bœotian order.
 628
 Mr. Scarlett  begged to explain. He had not said that, it was his opinion that the bar was degraded; he did not think so; but this he would assert, since he had been publicly called upon, that the honour, the independence, and the enlightened state of the bar was attributable to the bar itself, and to the vindication of its own character.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that as a member of that House, whose privileges were attacked, and of that profession whose rights were assailed, he hoped he might be permitted to say a few words. He concurred in the speech of his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down—a speech which did the highest honour to his hon. and learned friend, and to every sentence
 594 595 596 597
 Mr. Scarlett , in explanation, observed that what he had said was, that it would have been natural to expect that the lord chancellor should have sent, in a private and confidential manner, for the hon. and learned member, and have asked him, whether he could have uttered the words attributed to him, as they seemed most extraordinary in the mouth of any one acquainted with the practice of the Chancery court.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he would put it to any individual in that House, or out of it, whether there was any person in his majesty's dominions; so ill lodged, considering his rank as his majesty was? A large sum of money, in different small repairs and embellishments, had been hitherto thrown away. But a good opportunity now occurred to put an end to that error. Carlton-house was in such a state, that it could not long go on, unless it received substantial repairs. The foundation was not good, and the walls were in a bad state. Both required substantial repairs. It would require a considerable time and a large sum of money, to erect a palace: but he called on the House to place his majesty in a suitable situation, which would render it unnecessary to build a palace at this moment. Those trifling repairs in the different palaces should be stopped, and means should be taken to provide for the erection of a grand national palace at once. It would be true economy in the end.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  hoped the right hon. gentleman would repeat the assurance he gave them last session, that this was the only vote that would be called for on
 631
 Sir M. W. Ridley  wished to know whether there was any objection to lay before the House the report of the committee of medical men who investigated the disease which was prevalent some time back at the Penitentiary? He was the more anxious for the production of that report, because he was inclined to think it would disclose a circumstance not generally known, namely, that diarrhœa prevailed there for a much longer period than was generally supposed.
 Sir T. Baring  said, that sir George Beaumont had not given his pictures to a building; but to the nation. At present, the arts were in a state of unrivalled excellence in this country, and it must be desirable that they should have a suitable abode; which he thought could only be found in Somerset-house. He trusted government would complete that noble structure.
 Sir T. Baring  recommended, that instead of the British Museum, Somerset-house should be completed, and made the receptacle for a national gallery of pictures.
 Sir T. Baring  said, they had a great number of palaces, many of which might
 629 l, l.
 Lord Milton  said, he was sorry to see gentlemen vying with each other in recommending the erection of buildings
 630
 Mr. Ashurst  said, that his fears arose from the probability that imputations would be thrown upon the magistrates which they would not possess the means of refuting.
 Sir R. Heron  avowed himself as a county magistrate most solicitous to have his conduct fully investigated. The public superintendance ought to be exercised for the good of the people. As the Trespass act had been mentioned he must say, that he expected some member of influence would have before now moved for the repeal of that most unconstitutional act, by which a British subject might be punished for any thing, or for nothing.
 The Attorney General  expressed himself most ready to subscribe to the principle, that every abuse of the administration of criminal justice should be fully investigated. The object of the motion was, to ascertain if any magisterial mismanagement existed in the adjoining counties to the metropolis, as compared with similar returns from the metropolis. He would therefore suggest, that in the first stage the returns might be made, with the omission of the names
 650
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he considered the stipendiary magistrates, as of the government, to stand in a different situation from the county magistrates. He meant, that the conduct of the former was necessarily more open to inquiry. The motion, as proposed to be modified, he certainly should not object to.
 Mr. Denison  approved of the suggestion of the attorney-general. As to his own conduct as a magistrate, he wished to have it fully investigated; and he felt himself bound in justice to say, that there was not a more diligent, anxious, or praiseworthy body, than the magistrates of Surrey.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  instanced a case that had come before himself, where the accused parties, amounting to three, were committed on the clearest evidence; but, in consequence of the prosecutor declining to prosecute, they were discharged without trial. And yet, by such a return, an imputation would be thrown upon him.
 Mr. Maberly  rose, to enter his protest against the doctrine which had been laid down by the hon. gentleman, respecting county magistrates. He was himself in the habit of acting frequently in a town which required the constant attention of several magistrates, and he was sure they would have no objection to the motion. He considered the observations of the hon. member, as a slur upon the magistrates of Surrey; and he would protest on behalf of nine-tenths of them, against such an imputation.
 Mr. F. Palmer  presented a petition from the licensed victuallers of Reading, against the Excise Licences. He trusted the House would take the subject into their serious consideration, as it was one of great importance and as the existing system was the cause of considerable injustice.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he held in his hand a petition from a number of Inhabitant householders of the parish of St. Anne's, Westminster, praying for a repeal of the whole, or such part as relate to the Window duties, of the assessed taxes. This petition was from a portion of the great body of petitioners who petitioned that House in the beginning of the year 1822. He had an opportunity of knowing, that if it had not been strongly reported that it was the intention of the chancellor of the Exchequer to propose the remission of a large portion of the assessed taxes, and especially the window tax, petitions similar to the present would ere this have been presented from the whole of the city of Westminster; and meetings were at present convoked of the whole of the parishes of Westminster, for the purpose of petitioning the House not to carry into effect the plan which the chancellor of the Exchequer had proposed. The petition which he had now the honour to present was signed by nine hundred householders of the parish of St. Anne's; and he begged the House particularly to remark, that it proceeded from persons of every kind and denomination of political opinion. He was quite sure, that when the House was told, that the first paragraph stated the sense which the petitioners entertained of "the firm, wise, and enlightened policy of that honourable House," they would not believe that the petition was "got up," as it was termed,
 653 l. 654
 Mr. Hobhouse  next presented a petition from the inhabitants of the parish of St. Mary, Lambeth, in the county of Surrey; setting forth, 
 
 House and Window Tax. Rent. Windows. Duties 1797. Duties 1817. Addition per Cent. 
 £. £. s. d. £. s. d. 
 On a House of 50 25 9 0 0 22 10 2 150 
 On a House of 50 30 10 0 0 20 14 2 167 
 On a House of 50 35 11 0 0 30 18 2 180 
 On a House of 50 40 12 0 0 35 10 2 200 
 On a House of 100 25 11 10 0 29 11 10 157 
 On a House of 100 30 12 10 0 33 15 10 172 
 On a House of 100 35 13 10 0 37 10 10 181 
 On a House of 100 40 14 10 0 43 0 10 196 s. s. d. s. d. s. d. 655
 Mr. Hobhouse  then rose to make the motion of which he had given notice. He began by observing, that he was quite sensible, that on the present occasion he should stand in need of the whole of that indulgence which the House had been in the habit of being kind enough to give him, on the various occasions on which he had felt it his duty to trouble them. These were not mere words of course; they were prompted by a sentiment which he unfeignedly felt, and which he was sure every body would be aware he must feel, when he was about to handle so vitally important a subject as the taxation of the country; and when it was his intention, he would not say to follow, because that would be irregular, but to allude to the recent speech of the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer, who had enlightened even his political enemies by some of the sound views of commercial policy which he had opened. If the right hon. gentleman followed up those views, and carried them into practice, he would acquire, he would not say that noisy quality fame, but he would acquire that high and lasting character, which ought to be the first object of the ambition of every man who aspired to a share in the government of a country. At the same time, although in the commercial course which the right hon. gentleman was pursuing, he was actuated by the most correct principles—principles from which no man, who had at all considered
 656 en passant, 657 s. s. 658 659 660 "Of whatsoe'er descent the godhead be, A stock, a stone, or homely pedigree, In his defence his servants are as bold As if he had been formed of beaten gold." l. 661 l 662 663 l l. l 664 l 665 l l l l l l s d 666 l l l 667 
 1. "That it appears to this House, that the reduction of taxes proposed by his majesty's chancellor of the Exchequer, is not such as to satisfy the just expectations of the people. 2. "That the window-tax is unjust, unequal in its operation, and most oppressive to the least opulent portion of the community; and that it appears to this House that the said tax should, from the 5th of next April, be totally and immediately repealed."
 Mr. Maberly  rose for the purpose of submitting to the House some observations on this subject. He thought it was extremely important, because the proposal submitted to the House by the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer, was not for one year, but for four; and no further reduction of the public burthens could be looked for by the people during that period. He was particularly desirous to guard himself against any misconstruction, or a charge of inconstancy, with respect to what had fallen from him on a former evening, and what he should have to offer on the present occasion. When the right
 668 669 670 l l 671 l lend l l 672 l l l s s l 673 674 675
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could not but regret to find that he was that evening placed in rather a peculiar situation; for it had become his duty, not only to defend the propositions which he had on a former night submitted to the House, but also to assign the grounds upon which he could not acquiesce in either of the two plans that had been brought forward by the hon. members for Westminster and Abingdon. He trusted, however, that what he should have to observe upon this occasion would justify the ground he had taken on a former evening, and satisfy the House, that no reasons had been shewn why he should accede to the suggestions submitted by those honourable gentlemen. The question now was, not whether taxes should increase, or whether existing taxes should be maintained, but whether one of two particular modes of proceeding should be adopted, by way of giving relief to the people—it being admitted upon all hands, that a certain amount of taxes should be repealed. It was obvious that this statement narrowed the question between himself and the two hon. gentlemen opposite very considerably. But, before he proceeded to answer the hon. member for Westminster, it might be convenient that he should reply to the speech of the hon. member who had just sat down. From that hon. gentleman's speech he did not very clearly collect, whether he meant to support the motion of the hon. member for Westminster or not. The hon. gentleman had, however, admitted his belief, that the propositions which he (the chancellor of the Exchequer) had submitted to the House a week ago, were right in themselves, and he was obliged to that hon. gentleman for the justice that he had done him. But then the hon. gentleman wished to superinduce upon those propositions, an additional reduction of taxes, in the way and by the means that he had just stated to the House; such additional reduction, therefore, being contingent and dependent upon the result of a certain plan—namely, a plan for facilitating the operation of the sale
 676 677 panacea 678 679 l 680 l l 681 l l 682 l l l l 683 l l l l l 684 l l l l 685 686
 Mr. Whitmore  expressed his decided approbation of the financial statement which had been laid before the House by the right hon. gentleman: it did equal honour to the right hon. gentleman and to the country. He was sure the country would feel grateful to the right hon. gentleman for the principles which he had propounded, when they should, at no distant period, be sensible of the beneficial effects which would result from them. If he felt any regret, it was because the right hon. gentleman had not carried the excellent principles which he had advocated to the extent to which they might be carried. The House would perhaps anticipate, that he alluded to the question which he had last session the honour of bringing under their notice, namely, the trade in corn. It was impossible that ministers could take into consideration a question more deeply affecting the interests of the people than that trade. If gentlemen would examine into the present system, and ascertain its evils, they would be convinced that justice and good policy demanded that it should be abolished. With respect to the motion before the House, he must declare that he did not feel disposed to vote in its favour. He thought the chancellor of the Exchequer had gone as far as he possibly could go at present, in the way of reduction of taxation. He could not proceed further, consistently with the policy which ministers had pursued, and in which he fully concurred, of maintaining a considerable surplus of income over expenditure. Much as he regretted the being placed in a situation in which it was necessary for him to vote for the continuance of a tax, he could not avoid it on the present occasion. A sense of duty compelled him to vote in opposition to his feelings, but in accordance to his judgment.
 Mr. Baring  observed, that after all the budgets which honourable members might bring in their pockets to be discussed in that House, the only question which it was necessary to consider was, whether, in the present situation of the country, a sinking fund ought, or ought not, to be retained? His noble friend had stated what was perfectly true, that the debt of this country was an annuity, and that the capital of the debt was nothing more than the limitation of the amount for which the annuity could be paid off. But the conclusion which his noble friend drew from these premises was a most extraordinary one, for he seemed to infer that it was the same thing whether the stockholder was paid off by the lowering of the interest of money according to law, or whether the same thing was effected by an arbitrary reduction of the interest of the debt. ["No, no," from lord Althorp.] He was happy to find that he had misunderstood his noble friend. He would therefore abstain from making any observation on that point, but to refer to a statement which he was perfectly sure had fallen from his noble friend; namely, that the price of stock did not depend on what was called the trifling operation of the sinking fund. On that point he totally differed from his noble friend. On
 691 692 693 l l 694
 Mr. Baring,  in explanation, said, it was plainly not a want of credit in the government of Holland which obliged it to give such a high rate of interest, but the want of a surplus revenue to devote to redeeming the debt.
 Mr. Hobhouse  briefly replied. He said the chancellor of the Exchequer had given no answer to the question which her had put to him, namely, whether 56 millions of taxes were to be continued to be raised on the people? He had a right to consider this burthen enormous; and he was sure, that, whatever opinion might be entertained in that House, out of doors the system would be. universally deprecated. It had been allowed by the House, and indeed by the Government, that of all the assessed taxes, the window-light tax would be the most desirable to be repealed, and therefore it was, he was anxious to press it upon the House. His hon. friend had talked of the politeness of the tax-gatherer; but he believed it would be generally found he was polite to the rich, but very much the reverse to the poor. In one of the petitions which he had presented to the House, it was stated, that the tax-gatherer had actually taken away the beds of the unfortunate people, to collect that very tax of which he now sought the repeal. He should not trouble the House further; but he trusted they were now convinced of the propriety of adopting the proposition [hear, hear!].
 Mr. Sykes  rose, amidst general cries of Question! He said he should gratify the impatience of the House by merely making one observation. Two propositions had been submitted to the House, and but for the late hour of the night, he should state to the House, why, of the two he should give the preference to the system of finance proposed by the chan-
 702
 Mr. Gipps  referred to the report of the commissioners for building churches, in order to show, that 500,000 l
 Mr. Sumner  denied that the unpaid magistracy was uncontrolled, they were subject to that most powerful control, the superintendence of the court of King's-bench.
 Mr. Sumner  said, if the motion had been confined to the magistrates of London, he should have no objection to it; but he was decidedly opposed to the practice of bringing before the public on all occasions the names of magistrates. The office was attended with great trouble and inconvenience, and he was persuaded
 647
 Mr. Sumner  asked, whether the motion extended to the county magistrates of Middlesex and Surrey, or was confined to the police magistrates?
 Mr. Grey Bennet,  as a magistrate of Surrey, expressed himself anxious for the fullest publicity. He also bore his testimony to the respectability of the magistracy of that county.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, he rose to present
 651
 Mr. Monck  trusted the House would feel the importance of relieving the nation from these licenses, which operated as a kind of poll-tax. It was the most unequal kind of impost, as whether a man sold a greater or less quantity of beer, he was subjected to the payment of the same sum. He trusted that this, therefore, would be one of the burthens of the people which the House would determine to take off: for it was quite as oppressive as that odious window tax, to which he trusted the House would that evening put an end. The difficulties of all kinds under which publicans laboured, were very great.
 652 d. d. d.
 Mr. J. Smith  rose to express his gratitude to the right hon. gentleman, for having attended to the suggestion he had thrown out on a former night relative to the removal of the duty on law proceedings. That, however, was only one grievance. There was another, which he would mention, though it was not now before the House, he meant the great expense attendant on such proceedings. He did not think that the taxes which had been taken off, ought to satisfy the people. After the miseries they had so patiently endured, they had an irresistible claim to every possible relaxation from the burthen of taxation, and he hoped the increasing prosperity of the country would allow an efficient reduction to be granted to them. Notwithstanding all that had been done, a large portion of the people were still heavily oppressed by taxes. How, then, could gentlemen reconcile it to their minds, after what the country had gone through, to expend the sum of 800,000 l l 687 l l l 688
 Mr. Hume  said, that when he first intended to move for these returns, he never contemplated any objection thereto. The object he had in view was, that having had presented to him the names of some three, four, or five magistrates, he was anxious to have the regular returns, in order to compare the statements he had received with the official documents. He should then have been able to ascertain what was the more advisable course to take. He had no objection, however, to shape the motion so as to meet the suggestion of the attorney-general.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had thought it was fresh in the recollection of the House, that when he had called their attention to this subject, he held in his hand a return of the commitments by magistrates in London, and magistrates of other places, from which it appeared, that the greater part of those who had been committed by the London magistrates, had been convicted; from which he inferred, that a greater degree of attention must have been bestowed on the sifting of the evidence before committal. If he had supposed that any opposition would have been given to the motion, he would have brought down a document which was
 648
 Mr. Hume  said, that his return would extend to the county magistrates?
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from the merchants, bankers, and other inhabitants of Arbroath. They complained that the salmon fisheries of Scotland had been much impeded by a recent interpretation which had been put upon the laws, which prohibited the use of a certain kind of nets, by means of which great quantities of salmon used to be caught. The consequence of this was, that a monopoly was now thrown into a few hands. The petitioners stated, that they understood a bill was about to be brought into parliament which would have an injurious effect upon
 646
 Mr. Hume  said, he had some nights back presented a petition to the House from an individual, complaining of the conduct of a police magistrate, who had sentenced him to prison without sufficient evidence. He had then stated, that it was his intention to submit a motion to the House on the subject, the result of which, he expected, would explain the whole conduct of the magistrates of the metropolis and its neighbourhood. He had communicated to the Secretary of State for the home department his intention of moving for certain documents, and the right hon. gentleman had said he had no objection. He should therefore move, "That there be laid before the House, a return of the number of persons committed to Newgate or any other prison in London, Middlesex, and Surrey, from the several police offices, by the several magistrates of the city of London, and of the counties of Middlesex, and Surrey, in the years 1821,1822, and 1823; stating the number of persons committed from each office, and the number committed to each prison; the number of those committed against whom bills were found by the grand jury, the number convicted, and the number acquitted; distinguishing the number of those discharged, on verdict of not guilty, from those discharged from the non-appearance of witnesses or prosecutors; and also the number of commitments of those so convicted, acquitted, and discharged respectively.
 Mr. Hume  was surprised at the statement of the hon. member for Taunton, and at the situation in which it placed gentlemen on his side of the House. He differed totally from his hon. friend, and almost from every one around him [alaugh]. He differed, he said, from most of those around him, in not considering the present question to resolve itself into the other, question—shall we, or shall we not, keep up a sinking fund? It must be admitted, that it was possible, by reducing our establishment both to keep a sinking fund, to pay off a part of the debt, and to remit taxes. We might by reducing our establishment take a large sum from the national debt, and lessen the amount of taxes. He held in his hand the balance sheet, and from that he would prove what he said. He there found, that the expense for the military and miscellaneous matters
 699 700 1 s l s. s. l 701
 Mr. Denman  was astonished at the extraordinary reason given for opposing the production of this return. What! was the proposition to be entertained, that as the powers of the magistracy were increased, they were to be made irresponsible? The unpaid magistracy must not be subjected to the possibility of aspersions being cast on their character. Then, on what ground was it that the police magistrates were to be exposed to imputations? Their labours were much more extensive and equally useful. The paid magistracy were, it was to be recollected, amenable to the home office, as well as to the House of Commons, and yet it was contended in that House, that it would be felt as a considerable hardship to call for any disclosure respecting the conduct of the unpaid magistracy! If such a feeling was to be permitted to prevail—if that House sanctioned the irresponsibility called for—then that body of magistrates would become an intolerable nuisance. Look at the variety of new powers that every session, somehow or other, these magistrates were acquiring. Let it look at the trespass act, and the many other acts, that gave the right of summary correction; and the House must feel that it was of the utmost consequence to watch
 649
 Mr. W. Smith  agreed with his hon. friend who spoke last, that the sinking fund had become a nick-name for a thing
 695 l 696
 Sir E. Knatchbull  complained, that the hon. gentleman had stated no reasonable grounds, to induce the House to accede to his motion, but seemed to consider it as a matter of course. He therefore thought his hon. friend was quite justified in opposing it. But, there was another objection to the production of these returns; namely, that it would be attended with great trouble, expense, and inconvenience. Unless the hon. member stated some good grounds for complying with the motion, he should feel it his duty to oppose it.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he had a petition to present from an association in Ireland, denominated the Hibernian Mining Society, praying the House to take no measures that may impede their efforts in the working of the mines in Ireland. It was gratifying to observe, that the shares in this undertaking had been purchased up so rapidly, and that individuals were found who were ready to embark their capital in the speculation. But, at the same time, it was worth considering whether it would be expedient for parliament to invest them with the powers of a joint stock company. Experience had proved, that the powers conferred upon public companies had generally led to negligence in the conduct of their business.
 Sir J. Newport  said, if there was any country; in the world which, more than another, required encouragement as to the investing of capital, it was Ireland; and when an undertaking was set on foot to extract from the earth the treasures which he believed Ireland possessed, he hoped the House would not be backward in granting, not a monopoly, for to monopolies he was opposed, but all the assistance which they could bestow with safety and justice; and that they would look with a favourable eye upon the disposition to lay out in Ireland that capital which was so much called for.
 Lord Althorp  said, he was never more surprised in his life than at the statement of the hon. gentleman. He was himself a county magistrate, and he should be ashamed if he objected to his name being produced upon any occasion, and subjected to the fullest inquiry. He was sure he spoke the sense of every country gentleman in England of sound principles, when he said that they would never object to have their names produced, or would never shun inquiry.
 Lord Althorp,  in explanation, stated, that he had applied his remarks, not to the reduction of the stocks, but to the reduction of interest generally, by ceasing to withdraw the sinking fund from the active capital of the country.
 Lord Althorp  rose to declare the reasons which would induce him to vote for
 689 690 l
 Lord Milton  said, he could not agree with all the propositions which fell from his hon. friend the member for Taunton. To begin with the last, he would ask his hon. friend, if he would turn his powerful mind to the subject, and would consider the nature of the government of this country, whether he did not think that public credit rested on some other foundation than that of the sinking fund? He begged him to consider, if his own presence in that House, in the midst of the representatives of the people (for so he would still call them, however imperfectly they answered the description) was not a proof that they were a nation of freemen, governing themselves by their own will, and not subject to the arbitrary power of a despotic ruler? Was not this, he would ask, one of the sources, and the chief source, of our credit? Fond as the hon. member for Taunton was of attributing this to the sinking fund, he would ask him, whether he would not rather lend; money to the government of this country, though it had no surplus revenue whatever, than to the grand seignior, with the greatest possible sum of surplus revenue? Was it, therefore, the sinking fund, or the free and stable institutions of this country, not subject to be overthrown or changed by the caprice of any one man—
 697 698
 Mr. Secretary Canning  on presenting, by command of his Majesty, copies of communications with France and Spain, relating to the Spanish American provinces said, it would probably be recollected, that in the debate which took place on the address, he had stated, that some time would elapse before he should he able to communicate precise information as to the course which government had pursued with regard to the Spanish American provinces—The papers which he now laid on the table contained that information.
 Colonel Davies  rose, pursuant to, notice, to move for the production of certain papers, calculated to shew the application of the Monies received from France by way of Indemnity. The question had been already submitted to the consideration of parliament in a most able and eloquent speech, by his distinguished friend the member for Knaresborough (sir J. Mackintosh). The constitutional objections which his hon. friend had then offered to the appropriation of monies thus accruing had been too forcibly expressed in that House to be soon forgotten, and, therefore, it was not his intention to enlarge upon the subject, but powerful as were the arguments of his distinguished friend, they were not successful at the time. It was contended by ministers, that money, thus obtained, was to be considered as droits of the Crown, and that consequently the executive were not responsible. But if the ministers were not responsible, where was the necessity of accounts? If they were the stewards of the people, the money they received, in consequence of those treaties, was the property of the people, and could only be appropriated by a vote of their representatives. Had the right hon. gentleman, who now filled the office of chancellor of the Exchequer, been in the same situation at that time, he felt a strong persuasion that no such objections would have been put forth. In the appropriation of that money there was a sum of 9,971 l. 722 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that whatever difference of opinions existed heretofore on the question of constitutional right, as to whom the money thus received belonged, he should now say, that it formed no part of the present consideration. It was sufficient for him; in answer to the hon. and gallant member, to state that he had no objection to the returns called for, satisfied that such returns would afford a full and satisfactory explanation of the manner in which such money was applied.
 Sir R. Heron  rose to ask leave to bring in a bill to prevent the necessity of the Renewal of Offices on the Demise of the Crown. It might be proper for him to account for the delay which had occurred since the time—nearly two years ago—at which he had given his first notice of a motion on this subject. At that time there were so many subjects of pressing and immediate expediency, that he thought it best to give way. In the course of last session, the temporary indisposition of the king prevented him. It ocurred to him, that such a moment would be the most unfit in point of delicacy, and that respect which was at all times due from the parliament to the Crown. It was well known that formerly, the occupation of every office, and the existence of parliament itself, terminated with the life of the king. It was found that great incovenience arose from this sudden suspension of all the legislative and executive functionaries, and a bill was brought in to prevent that effect with respect to the parliament. Various acts were passed from time to time which partially and by degrees removed the inconvenience of the renewal, with respect to some of the superior offices. At length it suggested itself to the enlightened mind of the late Mr. Ponsonby, to extend that principle, to introduce a temporary bill to prevent the renewal of offices on the demise of the late king. He was persuaded that Mr. Ponsonby's motive for limiting his measure to a temporary
 723 724
 Mr. Secretary Canning  observed, that the hon. baronet had kept his word with the House in refraining from going into any great length on the subject of his motion, and he would follow the hon. baronet's example. The hon. baronet appeared, indeed, to assume, without argument, that considerable alterations were necessary in the principles of the constitution, even in the most sacred of them. He knew none more sacred than that which threw on the Crown the most pleasing, and took away from it the most unpleasing functions. But, the hon. baronet seemed to think, that a new sovereign ought immediately to have imposed upon him acts of severity and harshness; and that he should have a ministry fastened on him who had not received his approbation, unless he had recourse to the ungracious step of instantly dismissing them. He must either leave his cabinet precisely as he found it, or act with apparent harshness. Now, it was one of the great principles of the constitution, that every appointment under the Crown flowed as a favour from the Crown; and it was neither just nor wise to invert that principle, and to assume, that, at the demise of the Crown, every man possessed of office must remain in office, unless dismissed by the new sovereign. One of the hon. baronet's views was very inaccurate. The hon. baronet had said, that in former times, not only offices but parliament itself terminated on the demise of the Crown; but that was felt to be so monstrous a thing, that the legislature stepped in to prevent it. But the principle now was, that parliament did terminate at the demise of the Crown. It was true, that to prevent confusion, the dissolution was postponed until six months after the demise of the Crown, not on the principle which the hon. baronet supposed, but on the principle, that parliament ceased and extinguished on the demise of
 725
 Mr. Robertson  contended, that the petitioners did not view the proposition of the chancellor of the Exchequer in the true light. The object was, not to increase the domestic consumption of the articles manufactured of silk, but to extend the foreign commerce of the country, by enabling foreigners to have that assortment in this country which allowed them to complete their investments. The question for removing the prohibition on the exportation of long wool was a more delicate one, the article being the exclusive growth of this country; but still he thought viewing the other great interests of the state, that, by the reduction of the tax, more general benefit would arise than partial evil to any particular class.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he had come to a conclusion exactly opposite to that of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just spoken. So forcible an objection to the bill, as the fact which had been stated by the hon. and learned gentleman in its favour, had not previously occurred to him. To render the judicial office independent, parliament had stepped out of its way, and provided that that office should not cease on the demise of the the Crown. But the hon. and learned gentleman wished the hon. baronet's bill to be brought in, by which bill the army and navy would be put on the same footing of independence of the Crown as the judges.
 Sir R. Heron  disclaimed any share in "concocting" the measure. It was word for word, with the exception of the provision respecting magistrates, copied from Mr. Ponsonby's bill. If the gentlemen opposite, therefore, thought the measure so erroneous in principle, and calculated to give so harsh a character to the exercise of the royal prerogative, why did they agree to Mr. Ponsonby's bill? For this was the same bill, except that it was perpetual instead of being temporary. The principal object of the bill was to prevent immense sums from coming adventitiously into the pockets of persons not entitled to them. As for the change in the constitution which the right hon. gentleman imputed to the bill, he could not see any. He would, however, withdraw his motion, and take time to consider what further proceedings to adopt.
 Dr. Lushington  thought the House might, with great propriety, institute an inquiry into this subject. Nothing could be more detrimental to the administration
 729
 Mr. Bernal  said, that a commission ought to be issued, for the purpose of inquiring into the abuses of the law courts. Nothing, he was convinced, would operate on the system but a commission, with very extensive powers, or a committee of that House.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, the office to which the hon. gentleman alluded was altogether without the sanction of the government, and the people could not be too cautious in listening to the delusive representations which were made to them, and in relying on the promises of the mercenary projectors.
 The Attorney-General  rose to propose that some indemnity should be provided for the Prothonotaries and other officers of the Court of Common Pleas. Those officers held their places by patent, and had paid large sums for the purchase of them; and he submitted, that upon the principle which the House had recognized in other cases, they were entitled to be recompensed for any loss they might sustain by the bill now in progress. If the Court of Common Pleas were to be abolished altogether, there could be no doubt that the House would feel it necessary to provide for these officers, and as their emoluments were now to be materially diminished, he thought they had a proportionate claim. There were officers of the Court of King's Bench who were equally entitled, but these would probably be brought before the House by some other person.
 Mr. Ellice  presented a petition from the silk weavers of Coventry: against the importation of Foreign Silks. The hon. gentleman stated, that the
 720
 Mr. Canning  observed, that this was very different from a mere question of fees. He was sure the hon. baronet would disdain the narrow ground on which his hon. and learned and his right hon. friend wished to place his motion. The fact was, that the hon. baronet's object was, to amend the constitution; to place the monarch in a situation in which he had not before been placed. It was impossible that the hon. baronet should have been concocting his bill for two years, and that then he should make it the miserable, paltry, money question that the hon. and learned and the right hon. gentlemen wished to make it. As to Mr. Ponsonby's bill, the word "fees" was not in it.
 Mr. Tierney  was of a similar opinion. The inequality of the fees was, he said, at present most unjust. Some of them were exorbitant; on several offices they amounted to two or three thousand pounds. He was at a loss to conceive how an act of the sovereign, by which so many of his subjects were required to pay a heavy fine, could be called an act of grace and favour.
 Mr. Brougham  remarked, that the whole argument of the right hon. gentleman was applicable to the form and to the substance of the proposed measure. The question was, to what description of offices it was fit that it should apply? It appeared to him, that a previous inquiry would be the most satisfactory way of proceeding; and he suggested to his hon. friend the expediency of withdrawing his present motion, for the purpose of moving for the appointment of a committee, to examine and ascertain the facts.
 Mr. Brougham  said, it was his firm belief, that the right hon. gentleman and those who opposed this bill would not have done so, if it related to constitutional principles only; but that their opposition was excited by the "miserable, paltry question" of fees.
 Mr. Hume  wished to put a question to the right hon. gentleman opposite. The evils which had resulted from the emigration to Poyais were well known to the House. He un-
 728
 Mr. Hume  thought, that an important part of the object of the hon. baronet, namely, that which related to the fees, might be obtained without going to the extent proposed by the hon. baronet's bill. That was at present a very great hardship, especially as it respected the army and the navy; and he thought a satisfactory arrangement might be made
 726
 Mr. Hume  hoped, that if the noble lord adopted the learned gentleman's suggestion, he would also insert a clause to prevent all such offices from being sold in future.
 Mr. P. Moore  rose for the purpose of giving his decided support to the petition. The House would recollect, that the city of Coventry contained a population of nearly 50,000 persons, the greater proportion of whom depended for actual subsistence on the prosperity of the ribbon trade. When that trade flourished,
 721
 Mr. Denman  thought the proposed bill might be important in a view which had not hitherto been taken of it. It was one of the first acts of the last reign to make
 727
 Lord Althorp  said, the question of compensation presented many and very great difficulties. He admitted, that where parties were in the possession of vested rights, they were entitled to be indemnified for any damage which those rights might sustain; but this principle did not apply to the case of a diminution of fees. He apprehended that if this principle were once admitted, the House would have to go much further than was at present contemplated.
 Mr. Baring  said, he had a petition to present on a subject of the utmost importance to the petitioners, and, as he conceived, to the whole country. It prayed the House not to consent to the proposition for taking off the prohibition on the importation of manufactured silks. The petition was signed by nearly all the most respectable individuals in London and the neighbourhood, concerned in the manufacture and trade of silk, without the admission of any of the labouring classes of the manufacturers. On the merits of the object of the petition, there was but one opinion throughout the trade; and, as he understood, the only objection made by a single individual was to some of the words used in the petition, and not in the remotest degree to the prayer, in which, on the contrary, all heartily concurred. But the question was one which affected not only a large part of the population of the metropolis, but also that of many country towns; and among the rest, the town which he had the honour to represent; in all of which, the proposition for taking off the prohibition on the importation of French silk was considered a serious grievance. Whether as the manufacturers or as the sellers of silk, they concurred in thinking that the removal of the prohibition, if persevered in, would be
 732 733 734
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he did not rise to object to the bringing up of the petition; for no man was more disposed, on every act of the government, whether political or commercial, that the general sense of the country should be collected and stated to parliament. He begged the House to consider in what a situation all those were likely to be placed, if the reasoning of the hon. gentleman were adopted, who were desirous of introducing a practical illustration of a liberal system of commercial policy. It should be recollected, that this liberal system had been pressed upon ministers by the whole House, and by no individual with more effect and authority than by the same hon. member who had
 735
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that the hon. gentleman who spoke last had used two arguments, both of which he should like to submit to him calmly, and not in his capacity of member for Coventry. The first was this—"I admit the force of your reasoning in favour of a liberal system of commercial policy. But I ask you to look for some other prohibition that may safely be removed." Let the hon. gentleman point out any other branch of manufacture in which any such prohibition existed. In fact, there was none; and the hon. gentleman assumed the general policy to be prohibition, whereas, silk alone was the exception. Did not this afford one strong reason for repealing it? On steel, cotton, wool, and all the other great articles of manufacture, there was no prohibition, and yet in these it had been found that we were able to defy all competition. The second argument of the hon. gentleman was even more extraordinary, and led to a directly opposite inference to that which he had drawn from it. He had said that, in the silk manufacture, Great Britain was inferior to France, in point of taste and machinery. Now, did not this fact lead to the suspicion, that, on account of these prohibitions, the same improvements had not been made in this manufacture that had been made in all others? Let those prohibitions be removed, and our taste and our machinery would speedily improve. As to silk not being a native manufacture in this country, the hon. gentleman must indeed have been driven to an extremity for an argument, or he would not have resorted to that. It was quite as much a native manufacture of this country as cotton or linen, and had flourished in this soil for forty" or fifty years. If, indeed, the
 740
 Mr. Philips  was of opinion, that the protecting duty of 30 per cent would be amply sufficient. Great changes must produce temporary inconveniences, and on this account the progress should be rendered as gradual as possible. He felt satisfied that the measures recently adopted by government would effect a great improvement in the commerce and manufactures of this country. It was evident that popularity was not their object; for the measures which they had selected were not popular. They were entitled to the thanks of the House and of the people: for they had evidently been influenced by a sincere desire to promote the prosperity of the country.
 Captain Maberly  deprecated the clamour which had been raised against the endeavours of his majesty's government to introduce a sounder system of commercial policy, by the very parties whose interests those measures were essentially calculated to promote. It had been contended, that these measures ought not to be attempted, unless such an alteration was made in the corn laws as would lower the price of bread in the same proportion with other commodities. Now, there was no one principle in political economy which had been more frequently and ably inculcated by the late Mr. Ricardo, than that the high price of corn had no effect whatever on the price of other commodities.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said:—The proposition which I had the honour to submit to the House, has been so ably supported by my right hon. friends, and has also received such powerful and disinterested support from so many hon. 744
 Mr. Mundy  said, that the proposal of
 745
 Mr. Wynn  said, he had given an attentive examination to every case in which an appeal had been made to the Board of Control from the refusal of the Court of Directors to allow an individual to proceed to India, and he had not the least recollection of any such case as that mentioned by the hon. member There had been many cases in which the Board of Control had given permission after the Court of Directors had refused it. He thought it very unlikely, from what he had seen of the conduct of the Court of Directors, that if any person shewed a probability of his having full employment in India in trade or commerce, that the directors would
 747
 Mr. Baring  begged to say a few words in reply to some of the observations that had been made on the subject in debate. There was a great difference, he observed, between the abolition of restrictions on the intercourse between the islands of Great Britain and Ireland, and a change of the relations in which these islands stood with regard to foreign countries. There could be no doubt that restrictions on the intercourse between different parts of the same empire, must be injurious to the mass of the people, and particularly in the case of Ireland. The low rate of wages there, and its great population might, now the restrictions were removed, lead to the introduction of manufactures to the great benefit of that island. It had been said that it was an abandonment of principle on his part, after having so long advocated free trade, to come forward now with this petition for an exception. In advocating free trade, however, he had never gone further than a free trade in the raw material, and a free transit of all goods, so that England might have facilities for enjoying the carrying trade of the world; but he had never gone so far as to hold out that, without any reciprocity of concession, we should open our ports to the introduction of continental manufactures. The argument of the abstract political economists was, that we should get every commodity wherever we
 750 751
 Mr. Wynn  said, it appeared that the individual had applied to go out simply as a clerk, and in refusing him permission the Court of Directors had acted with perfect propriety, and the Board of Control would have confirmed their refusal. It was certainly unjust, while the natives and half castes were excluded by law from all offices under the Company, that an influx of Europeans should also exclude (hem from the clerkships which they might fill. He spoke of the system as it stood; and during the term of the Company's charter it could not be altered: person who went out a clerk, might, the day after his arrival, be thrown out of employment and become a mere adventurer.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  hoped, that after what had passed that night, the chancellor of the Exchequer, when the question concerning the change in the silk and woollen trade was again brought forward, would come to the House with an altered tone, it had been said that night, that no trade was worth supporting that would not support itself. He should wish to know what our great staple manufactures would have done, if they had been left to support themselves? The woollen, the cotton, and the other great staple the silk, which was now doing very well, and which would continue to do well, so long as it was protected from that free trade on which the ministers and the House were running wild. He said "running wild" because he was convinced that its principles never could be carried into operation. Neither corn, nor wool, nor cotton, nor
 748 s s 749
 Mr. Secretary Canning  observed, that to the questions of his hon. and learned friend he would answer separately; but he would invert the order in which those questions had been put. And first, as to the supposed treaty between Spain and Great Britain. No such treaty was in existence to the best of his knowledge. In the year 1810, when this country proposed to interpose her mediation between Spain and her colonies in America, it was merely upon an understanding between the two governments, that the coast law of Spain should be suspended, as between the subjects of the two nations. No instrument, as far as he had ascertained, was in existence, in which this agreement was recorded. Any motion, therefore, by his hon. and learned friend, upon the subject of this supposed treaty would
 754 755
 Mr. Alderman Wood  expressed his surprise at the cheers which followed the statement of the hon. member for Surry, respecting the case of Mrs. Loder. This poor woman had been worked constantly on the tread-mill for hours together; and, what was her crime? Why, simply, that she had three children by three fresh men. Now he found that in the country the gaols were filled in consequence of offences against the game laws, or cases of bastardy. But in London they had little experience of either class. He could not agree, that a distinction was to be drawn between the hard labourer and a clerk, who perhaps might be committed to prison. He thought that the treadmill and all other punishments should be distributed alike, without reference to persons. He would put a case, which many members must have heard of, he meant that of a man, who holding a situation of 3,000 l 766
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to take that opportunity of stating some of the objections which he felt to the present military system, as it was upheld in this country. The instance of his hon. and gallant friend (sir R. Wilson) was sufficient to point the attention of the House to the impolicy and injustice of the system. His hon. and gallant friend had given an explanation of his conduct, which was quite unanswerable, upon which the noble lord (Palmerston) had exercised more wit than judgment. But he mentioned that case at present, to show with what jealousy the House should view the subject. He was willing to concede, that there was a time in the history of this country—he meant in the reign of Charles the 2nd—when the king, possessed of absolute power, could do with the army as he pleased. With the Revolution however, a new æra arrived. In the preamble of a bill passed at that period, it was stated, that, as it was necessary to maintain a standing army, it was of importance that the regulations of that army should be considered. But, the question to which he was principally anxious to direct the attention of the House was, the system of flogging in the army; and he was sorry he did not now see in the House many of those who had formerly distinguished themselves in their opposition to this practice. He never could consent to grant the power of inflicting corporal punishment on 73,000 of our fellow-subjects. Now that we were at peace, this would be the time to remove it. If in other countries they found, that a discipline just as strict as that which was maintained in England, was observed, without the infliction of a single stroke,
 767 768 769
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, he rose as a
 770
 Mr. Hume,  in explanation, observed, that the gallant officer had attributed to him language which he had not used. He had merely repeated what had been stated on a former night, that when the drums were beaten in the morning, the association of ideas in the minds of the people residing in the neighbourhood, led to the painful reflection that the soldiers might be summoned to witness the punishment of the lash.
 Sir Robert Wilson  observed, that whenever the subject of corporal punishment was brought before the House, he had always in the most unqualified manner, declared the practice to be degrading to the character of our soldiery, and unnecessary to the maintenance of its discipline. After the various discussions that had taken place on the subject, it was with surprise, he found, that the noble lord had done nothing to abolish such a practice, or at least to allow the law to become a dead letter. He knew well that he should be met with the old argument, that our army had displayed the highest character, and that its prowess was the admiration of the world. Why then continue so debasing a punishment? Was the constitution of the British army so base—was it formed of such worthless materials—that its courage could only be excited, and its conduct regulated, by the cat-o'nine-tails? In Germany flogging had been abolished. In Prussia—even in Prussia—the animal designated a soldier, for he could not call him a man, was no
 771
 Colonel Wood  said, he would not sur-
 772
 Mr. John Smith  said, that, indifferent
 773 774
 Mr. Monck  observed, that the very admission of the gallant officer, that the practice of flogging had been checked, and the discipline of the army improved, shewed that it was not necessary to the maintenance of discipline. In the first constituted army of Europe it was not allowed. In one of the first regiments in our service, the Blues, it never took place. Were not these unanswerable proofs, that the sure support of discipline was to possess a moral hold over a soldiery? Dismission from the French army was, a punishment: dismission from the Blues in our service was also dreaded by the men of that regiment, because it blasted their prospects, and deprived them of any participation in the regimental promotion, or superannuated fund, to which they were taught to look forward. Whereas, in all other regiments, dismission from the service was regarded as a gratification. He most cordially joined in. the opinion of the cruelty and the inefficacy of continuing such a degrading system.
 Lord Palmerston  said, he should shortly reply to certain observations and statements which had fallen from hon. gentlemen opposite. The right of the Crown to dismiss officers without the intervention of a court martial, had been so often argued, that he should only say, that the necessity for continuing that old and salutary prerogative was sanctioned by the avowed decision of parliament. He denied that there existed the remotest similarity between the capricious punishments inflicted by a slave owner, and the regular and judicial infliction of corporal punishment by the sentence of a court martial. Nothing could be more unfounded than the statement, that the pay of confined soldiers went into the pockets of the officers of the regiments [Mr. Hume said, in the Guards}. Not in the Guards either. The forfeited pay went to the stock purse of the regiments. For the hospi-
 775
 Mr. W. Smith  protested against the principle advanced by the noble lord. A more monstrous proposition had never
 776
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that as to the employment of prisoners, before trial, on the tread-mill, the objections of the hon. gentleman applied to employment of every description, as well as that of the tread-mill. In fact, this was the declared opinion of the legislature. In a bill passed last session there was a clause, which he thought was so clear that it could not be mistaken, by which it was expressly forbidden to put any prisoner to hard labour before he was sentenced to it. Contrary to his expectations, however, it had been misunderstood. One instance had occurred in which a prisoner, before trial, was put to hard labour; and it was thought no infringement of the act, because he had made his choice of going to hard labour in preference to being kept on bread and water, which was the alternative offered him. This was, no doubt, a breach of the act. He had thought it almost impossible to make a law more precise than the act of the 4th of Geo. 4th. cap. 64. The right hon. gentleman here read the clause which, in substance, stated, that no magistrates should be authorised to make prisoners go to hard work before trial, unless by their voluntary consent, when they were to receive a proper proportion of the money they earned by their labour. And, even with their own consent, this act did not authorise the magistrates to class such prisoners with convicted persons. He was surprised that the intention of this clause should have been doubted; but as it had been, there was now a necessity to provide some remedy. He felt, however, a great difficulty in doing this. Pie was as ready to admit, as the hon. gentleman, that the employment of the tread-mill before trial was a great grievance, and under the present act it was not lawful so to employ it. By the laws of this country, every man was presumed innocent until he had been tried; when accused of any offence he was not deprived of his liberty as a punishment, but to insure his presence on the day of trial. It was, in the first place, therefore, extremely unjust to send unconvicted prisoners to work at the tread-mill. But he objected to it also on the ground of its weakening the effect of that punishment. It took away the stigma that should belong to the punishment appropriated exclusively to guilt, by making it also the lot of the
 760 761 762
 Mr. Western  said, that with respect to the proposition of asking no prisoner to work, his opinion was, that as employment was better than perfect indolence, it would be ruinous to deprive the prisoners of the option of employment. An objection had been taken to the punishment of the tread-mill, because it was said to be degrading. Now he thought that all punishment should be accompanied with a feeling of degradation; because it was desirable to make delinquents feel the debasement to which their offences had reduced them.
 Mr. Davenport  contended against the alteration of the laws affecting the silk trade. The House was called on by the chancellor of the Exchequer, to give up 6, or 700,000 l
 Mr. Davenport  contended, that the proposed plan would prove a damper, if not an extinguisher to the silk trade.
 Mr. Curteis  spoke against the repeal of the duties on silk, and said he could tell the right hon. gentleman of away by which he could set himself right with the country. If he would only say a word to them about the repeal of the tax on leather, malt, and hops, he would receive a much more gratifying approval from the people at large, than all the plaudits of his own bench or of that side of the House could afford him.
 Mr. Ellice,  although he approved of a liberal system of policy in matters of trade, was unwilling to commence the alteration with that branch of industry, which was exposed to the greatest chance of successful competition. The silk manufacture was not a native, but an exotic in this country; and in it we were still
 738 739
 Mr. Ellice  denied, that he had said any thing about the superior taste, and machinery of France.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that his constituents were unanimously opposed to the measure contemplated by his majesty's ministers, and if they persisted in pressing it, he should certainly feel it his duty to vote against it.
 Mr. Portman  observed, that no county in the kingdom was more disappointed, and dissatisfied with the financial statement of the right hon. gentleman opposite, than the county which he had the honour to represent. He should feel it his duty to oppose the measure proposed by the right hon. gentleman, not because he objected to the liberal policy on which it was founded, which every man must applaud, but because he did not conceive this to be the proper time for carrying that policy into effect. If he thought that his present opposition would throw-any serious obstacle in the way of the ultimate success of the commercial policy, adopted by the government, he should be inclined to vote for the measure; but feeling, as he did, that it might be carried, with greater benefit to the country, at a more convenient season, he should feel it his duty to oppose it.
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  expressed his conviction, that 50 per cent on many articles would not sufficiently protect the English against the French manufacturer. No less than 600,000 persons were engaged in the silk trade, and he was quite sure that his majesty's ministers would not adopt a measure which was calculated to involve so large a body in misery and distress.
 Mr. Dawson  bore his testimony also to the excellent character of Dr. Woodward. He was an English gentleman possessed of property in his own country; but he preferred for the purpose of doing good to reside on his living in Ireland.
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, he was much surprised at the course pursued by the hon. baronet, who had taken a part of the report of the committee, and had founded his argument upon the particular case of Mrs. Loder. Now, he would read that case from beginning to end. It was thus set forth in the report;—"The woman Loder was committed by the petty sessions at Guildford (the rev. G. Walter Onslow, chairman), on the 11th October last, on a charge by the parish officers of Godalming, of having been delivered of a bastard child, and being then chargeable to the parish. It appeared that the said bastard was her third child, by three several fathers; and she was sentenced to the mitigated term of three months' confinement to work at the house of correction. She was put upon the wheel on the 13th of October, but on account of the feeble and emaciated state in which she appeared at that period, she was not upon the wheel again for the next fourteen or fifteen days of her imprisonment, nor till extra allowance of food for her, and 12 ounces of bread and an ounce of sugar  per diem 764
 Mr. Bennet  said, he would avail himself of that opportunity to make some observations on the conduct pursued, in many of the prisons, with respect to the punishment of hard labour, especially as connected with the Tread-mill. He began by alluding to the conduct of the magistrates of Northallerton, who had persevered in inflicting the punishment of hard labour previous to conviction. Finding that such a proceeding was contrary to law, they said that they would not compel prisoners to work in the mill, but they took care to exercise severities towards them, in the event of their refusing to work; and it was of little consequence to the individual, whether he was directly ordered to work, or on being half-starved for his refusal, was compelled to prefer labour to famine. The magistrates of Northallerton could compel persons to hard labour; for there were other modes besides that of the tread-mill. He should therefore feel it his duty to propose a clause, providing that no person before trial should be allowed to work at hard labour, even with his own consent, otherwise these amateur magistrates would be enabled to persist in their favourite speculation. He was a great friend to the principle of the tread-mill properly applied; but it was only as a punishment after conviction that he could feel himself justified in approving of it. Transportation, generally speaking, was rather a favour than a punishment to convicted offenders, and hard labour at the treadmill might Often be substituted with ad-
 756 757 758 759
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was not to be expected that he should be prepared to meet every individual case that was offered by hon. members. He still, in reference to the observations of the right hon. baronet, felt himelf bound to say, that there was not in Ireland a more worthy, excellent, or scrupulous clergyman than Dr. Wood-
 731
 Mr. J. Smith  could not conceive how the silk manufacturer could possibly be injured by a measure which would enable him to procure the raw material a great deal cheaper. An additional tax on the raw material had often been the subject of complaint, but it was quite novel to find the manufacturer coming forward to say to the legislature, you will ruin us by remitting the tax on the raw material. The effect of the measure would undoubtedly be to increase consumption, and give additional employment to the artizans engaged in this manufacture. He thanked his majesty's ministers for the liberality with which they had brought forward these measures, and for the spirit and energy they had displayed in supporting them.
 Mr. Hume  said, there was one point of view in which this question had not been considered by any member who had yet addressed the House. He should be glad to know, who were the parties aggrieved by this measure? Who were the petitioners? The working men, or their masters, or both? Let the House con-
 742
 Mr. Denman  said, he was happy to listen to the opinions which now seemed to be the fashion on the other side of the House. It was certainly true, that parliament ought not to wait until all inconvenient regulations were removed;
 736 ad valorem
 Mr. T. Wilson  felt himself called upon, as one of the representatives of the city of London, while he was ready to give his tribute of praise to the king's ministers, for the manly and candid manner in which they had brought forward their measures, to express his doubts as to their propriety or expediency, under the existing circumstances of the country. The Opinion he had formerly expressed respecting the wool duties remained unchanged, and applied with equal force to those on silk. Until, by an alteration in the corn laws, the people of this country should be enabled to eat their bread as cheap as the people of foreign countries, the repeal of the duties on silk would fail of the end it was intended to accomplish. He was convinced of the inexpediency of the measure at the present moment; but he had one consolation, namely, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had expressed his readiness to enter into a full discussion of the subject.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, it was manifest that the regulations of this bill could not be applied to all gaols, and could only produce practical good in those gaols which were adapted for its application. He agreed with his hon. friend who spoke first, that the state of the inferior gaols imperiously pressed itself upon the attention of the House; and he looked at the clause now proposed to be introduced in. the bill, as only one step towards the amelioration of our prisons. He thought the more prudent course would be, to adopt this measure in the first instance, and then look out for further information, with
 765
 Mr. Evans  said, that large bodies of men might misunderstand their own interests. Of which they had had a striking example, in the representations against the repeal of the Union duties on goods carried from England to Ireland, or  vice versè
 Mr. Haldimand  trusted that his majesty's ministers would persevere in a measure, of the beneficial effects of which there could not be the slightest doubt. Nothing could be more certain than that every protection and bounty was detrimental to trade. If a trade could not support itself without that artificial support which was erroneously called protection, it was not, in point of fact, worth carrying on at all. His chief object in rising was to observe, that the chancellor of the Exchequer would not fully discharge the duty which he owed to the silk manufacture of the country, if he did not also consent to the repeal of the measures commonly called the Spitalfields acts. It was quite impossible that the benefits of free trade could be produced, unless the principle of free labour were also established. The effect of these acts was, to make some articles 100 per cent, dearer in London than in other parts of the country. It often happened, upon the spur of the moment, that it was better worth while even to pay that additional charge than to send to Coventry; but he asked whether, as applied to foreign trade, it was possible under such restrictions, that the manufacturer could compete with other markets? There was another topic which he would take that opportunity of mentioning. We Were told we had a free silk trade with India. This he denied. It could not be called a free trade, so long as the East India Company could limit the number of individuals who were permitted to go out to India. [hear, hear] An instance of the injustice of this practice had lately fallen within his own knowledge. A person was educated in a silk warehouse in this country, for the purpose of going afterwards to India to engage in that trade. It was well known that the number of persons acquainted with the value and nature of silk in India was extremely limited, and that coarse and fine descriptions of that article were sold at the same price. An application was made to the East India Company to allow the person he had alluded to, to be sent out to a private house in India, carrying on trade there, and the application had been refused. He did not complain of this, because their act justified the Company in their refusal; but it proved that they did
 746 d d
 Mr. Haldimand,  in explanation, said, that the application was made to the directors for leave to the gentleman in question to go out as a clerk to the house of Palmer and Sons, one of the first houses in Calcutta, and he might say in the world. The application was made generally for permission to go out as a clerk to Palmer and Sons, and leave was refused, on the ground that there were a sufficient number of young men unemployed in Calcutta. He did not apply indeed to the Board of Control, as he was advised that such an application would not to be attended to, as many applications of exactly the same kind had been refused.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had expected that the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, was rising to advert to a part of the speech of the hon. member for Taunton, not touched upon by the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs, namely, prohibitions. He was surprised, after what the hon. gentleman had advanced upon previous occasions, to hear him defend that system. Those prohibitions gave powers to Custom-house officers which had not unfrequently been termed unconstitutional. They might search the person, or the dwelling, and resort to other modes of detection and examination, very irksome to the character of Englishmen. The hon. gentleman had applied himself altogether to the great benefit of continuing the tax, which formed no part of the plan of the chancellor of the Exchequer: he was for preserving the absolute prohibition, with all the consequences of clandestine introduction. When the hon. member for Taunton
 737
 Mr. Peel  regretted that he had misunderstood the hon. gentleman, but he had certainly supposed him to have urged that point.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the petition which he held in his hand was so nearly similar in its statement of facts, and in the manner in which its prayer was supported, to that which the hon. member for Taunton had
 752
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, that having carefully perused the papers which were last night laid upon the table of the House, he rose to put to the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs one or two questions upon subjects connected with them. The first of these questions would be,
 753
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he had listened to every word that had fallen from the right hon. secretary; but, as at present advised, he saw nothing to induce him to alter his original intention of bringing the subject before the House.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  thought that theorists were apt to maintain too dogmatically the infallibility of their particular opinions. It was but fair, in his opinion, to give the petitioners credit for a little common sense, and for the capacity of understanding their own interests better than other people. What was the particular case of the silk manufacturers? A fortnight ago they stated that they were in a most flourishing condition; that their trade was never better; and that their workmen were all employed* contented and happy. What did they tell the House
 743 l
 Sir J. Newport  agreed with the hon. member, that ministers were entitled to the approbation of the House and the country for the measures which they had recently adopted. He believed they could not confer a greater benefit on the country, than by steadily persevering in that course. When an erroneous system had continued for a number of years, and formed a part of the general policy of the country, the difficulties of legislating with a view to the removal of the evils pro-
 741
 Sir J. Newport  said, he was not in the habit of indulging in statements without inquiring into the grounds upon which they were founded. His authority for stating to the House what he had felt it his duty to offer respecting Dr. Woodward, rested upon a communication that he had received from a peer of parliament, who was himself present at the meeting of the parishioners and who had authenticated every part of it. He should therefore have felt that he had derogated from the line of his duty, if he had hesitated to present petitions, or to enter upon the explanation he had done under such unquestionable authority.
 Sir John Newport  presented a Petition from the parish of Devenish, in the county of Fermanagh, complaining that its parishioners had been long inconvenienced for the want of a Church. That parish comprehended one hundred and thirty heads of families, all Protestants, and yet was deprived of a place of worship. Formerly there had been a chapel of ease, but the ground on which it stood became the object of a Chancery suit, on which there was now an appeal depending. The rector under
 730 l l l
 Sir T. Baring  said, he was not a very cordial friend to the tread-mill, since its effects were differerent on different persons. Suppose two men, one brought up to hard labour, and another to idleness, to have committed the same crime, and both to have been sentenced to the tread-mill, it was plain that the degree of punishment would be very different for each. The tread-mill at Winchester was one of the first established in the kingdom, and was, he believed, one of the best. He could say, that since it had been in use, the prisoners were more afflicted with colds and rheumatisms than before. He was of opinion, that the application of this punishment should be laid under restraints and restrictions. As a proof of this, the
 763
 Mr. Maberly  said, it was surprising to observe the anxiety which the intended alterations in the silk-laws had created out of doors; which anxiety was not only manifested by the petitions presented, but by the crowding of the London tradesmen and weavers about the passages of the House. The hon. gentlemen on his side of the House had been constant in their calls on the government for a reduction of the duties on raw produce, the removal of which was likely to lead to a large additional trade in the respective manufactures. But the very moment ministers were about to take the necessary steps to extend foreign commerce and internal consumption, that first step in the progress of a long-called-for and beneficial system was met with every species of opposition. It was exclaimed, "Do not repeal the prohibitory laws." Now, as to the legitimate operation of those laws, it was null and void. The smuggler at present possessed the disposition of these laws, and for an insurance of 20 per cent would introduce those very foreign articles. The proposition of the chancellor of the Exchequer was a most politic one; and he trusted the enlightened and unprejudiced portion of that House would give him their support.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  presented a petition from the silk-manufacturers of Sudbury, against the proposed measure. He begged to call the attention of the House to the situation of this borough. After suffering in the greatest degree from the decay of the woollen trade, it had revived by the introduction of the silk manufacture. The poor-rates had decreased to one-fourth of their former amount: the population was employed, and contented. In this situation, it was natural that they should look with alarm to any change in the existing laws. They were confident they could not compete with foreign countries, at so low a protecting duty. If smuggling could not be prevented now, when foreign silks were prohibited altogether, still less could it be prevented, when silks were admissible at a low duty. His constituents were no enemies to a free trade, but they were enemies to a partial legislation, which left the labourers of England under the operation of the corn laws, and yet exposed them to an open competition with foreign countries, where labour was free and untaxed.
 Mr. Baring  said, it was the duty of the House, when reduction of taxes was proposed, to look at the different classes of the community, and to apply the relief
 785 786
 Mr. Calcraft  observed, that as he was more interested in the growth of barley than he was in the cultivation of sugar, his opinion in favour of allowing the distillation of sugar was at least disinterested. He did not see the slightest objection to allowing sugar to come into competition with barley, when barley could be imported; at present it was, he believed, within 5 d 793 s
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  thought, that every thing which the hon. gentleman who had just spoken had said about rum, applied with much greater force to gin. The hon. gentleman did not seem to be aware of the state of the countries he alluded to, in respect to the preference they now gave, or had given, to liquors; for gin, and not rum, had been the drink of Scotland at the period in question. The West-India interest need feel, however, no anxiety either about Ireland or Scotland. In Scotland, the consumption of rum was very little; and in Ireland whiskey was distilled to such an extent, that nothing was to be apprehended from a mere nominal reduction of duty. Let no one suppose that the whole duty of 5 s d s d s d 797
 Mr. Robertson  expressed his belief, that no speedy relief would be afforded to the West-Indians, from the reduction of the duty on rum, on account of the great quantity now in bond.
 Mr. Whitmore  said, that in consequence of the situation in which our colonies in the West Indies were placed, and the important subject which was about to come under the consideration of the House, he did not think it prudent at the present moment to renew the motion which he had submitted to the House in the last session.
 Mr. Gordon  said, it appeared very extraordinary that the West-Indians should have one and all opposed the motion of his hon. friend the member for Aberdeen. He had reason to believe that there was a secret understanding on this subject between the West-India interest and his majesty's government and as a West-Indian, he felt if, honest and right to state the fact. The bill granting a remission of 3 s s s s 800
 Mr. Baring  said, he must confess that the impression made on the committee by the speech of the right hon. gentleman was such as to render it a vain hope that any thing which he could himself offer would remove it. Still, however, he would declare that, with all the attention he could bestow upon the subject, and all the consideration he could give it, the impression which he before had, remained to that moment unshaken; namely, that the measure proposed by the right hon. gentleman was a dangerous experiment for the country. He would admit, at the same time, that nothing could be more candid and disinterested, than the course which his majesty's ministers had pursued. They undertook a great responsibility in what they proposed; and it was highly creditable to them not to shrink from that responsibility, when they thought that by incurring it, they had a fair opportunity of serving the public. He had himself a strong inclination towards the principle of free trade, properly understood; but the right hon. gentleman
 815 816 817 818 819 820
 Mr. Whitmore  confessed, that with
 827
 Colonel Davies  urged the necessity of remitting the duties paid for stock on hand. If they were willing to allow a drawback on exports for the foreign market, why not also on the goods intended for home consumption?
 Mr. Philips  urged the necessity of taking off the duties from the dyeing materials.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  could not conceive what satisfaction the manufacturers were to derive from the postponement of two years and a quarter, which only put the danger off for that time. He trusted, however, that they would use the opportunity for preparing against the consequences, which would surely arrive at the end of that time. For his part, he protested against the proposition of free trade, unless they were prepared [hear, hear!]—he repeated it, he considered free trade, so called, as the greatest curse which could be inflicted on the country—unless they were prepared to go through with it by abolishing the corn laws; and that could not be done without endangering the very existence of the landed interest.
 Lord George Cavendish  supported the prayer of it. The proposition of an immediate change in these laws had, he said, caused a great stagnation in the trade. The petitioners did not express themselves wholly opposed to the repeal of the prohibitory system, but they prayed that a sufficient time should be allowed before such a material alteration was brought into effect.
 Mr. C. R. Ellis  said, that it might be expected that the West-India planters would receive favourably a proposition to
 790 791 prima facie 792
 Mr. Davenport  did not see any similarity between the manufacture of cotton
 824
 Mr. Ellice  observed, that in discussing this question, the committee should recollect, that the experiment proposed was about to be made upon that branch of our manufacture, which was the least competent to bear a rivalry. Indeed, it was admitted by the right hon. gentlemen opposite, that we were inferior to that very nation, with which we were called upon to compete, both in machinery, labour, and the price of labour: in short, that we were, in every ingredient of the manufacture, at a considerable distance behind France. But, it was said, that there would be, in the duties left on the importation of the French silks, a sufficient protection against the smuggler. Now, that was what he denied. The great security against the smuggling these goods lay, not in the chance of capture at sea, but in the power of confiscating them after they had been introduced, and wherever they could be traced. Allow them once to be imported; let them once be permitted to be put in the shops of Dover; and nothing could prevent their circulation through every part of the kingdom. It was from the conviction, that it was impossible to give our manufacture that protection which was essential to its existence, that he opposed the proposition. Besides, the right hon. gentlemen opposite were not consistent with their own principles. They kept up a duty of 7 s d 825 l l 826
 Mr. Ellice  put it once more to the right hon. gentleman, whether he would not give some assurance as to the immense manufactured stock on hand. That stock had been accumulated, the greater part of it, merely from a wish to keep the workmen in employ through the winter. The debate would go forth in a far more gratifying shape to the public, if some intimation were given that their just claims would be considered.
 Mr. Ellice , after the handsome assurance of the right hon. gentleman, that he would give some consideration to the question of duties paid for stock on hand, entreated his hon. friends to withdraw their opposition to the resolution: for, as the measure would then stand, the publishing of it out of doors would do good, and tend to conciliate all parties.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he had entered the House well disposed to support the motion of his hon. friend. He apprehended, that the small remission of duty on rum would not introduce it into general use, and doubted, with the last speaker, whether the increased consumption of sugar was owing to permanent causes. The West-India interest was certainly entitled to such relief as the surplus revenue could afford; but he should be content that the present motion should be withdrawn, if the chancellor of the Exchequer would hold out any expectation that the subject of distillation from sugar should be taken into consideration by the government. If distillation from sugar were allowed when barley reached such a price as to allow of its importation, the landed interest would have no reason to complain of the boon to the West Indies. He did not ask nor expect any pledge on the part of ministers, but merely an assurance, that there existed such a disposition to aid the West-India body. He hoped that the right hon. gentleman would consent to lay the documents to which he had referred upon the table; for a part of the conclusion drawn from them he had not clearly understood. With regard to increased consumption from supposed increased prosperity, it ought to be recollected, that the price of provisions last year was excessively low, so that the poor were able to indulge in a few luxuries: whereas, next year, in consequence of the advance in the price of provisions, they might hardly be able to purchase the necessaries of life. In the present state of the West Indies, all the assistance that could be afforded should be granted to them.
 Mr. Littleton  confessed, that his opinion on the question had been altered by what had fallen from the right hon. president of the Board of Trade. He thought it would be convenient, however, as a protection against smuggling, that every French piece of silk that was imported should be stamped at the Custom-house.
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, he would give the motion his decided opposition, though he trusted that the hon. member for Aberdeen would be induced to withdraw it. Among all the classes of British subjects who had felt the pressure of agricultural distress, none had sustained a heavier burthen than the West-India colonists; and there was none with which he more sincerely sympathized. But as to the proposition, that sugar should be admitted into our distilleries when barley was at a certain price, and such as would open the ports to the importation of foreign corn, he really thought it might be a fair question, whether the benefit here suggested should be given to the sugar-planter or to the barley-grower. Of the two interests he should be disposed to give the preference to their own agriculturists, He concurred with an hon. gentleman opposite in thinking, that the West Indies could only by slow degrees be restored to their former prosperity; and therefore he hoped the House would not be led away by any prospect of immediate, but imaginary advantage to those colonies.
 Mr. Bright  thought it would not be advisable, at the present moment, to press for the reduction of duties; but as to the suggestion, that sugar should be admitted into the distilleries when barley reached a certain price, he thought it would be most desirable that it should be adopted, to show the attention of the House to the West-India interest, and to conciliate the feelings of those of the colonists who, from their great distress, might be apt to entertain feelings of irritation towards
 795 796
 Mr. Benett , of Wilts, said, he saw no objection to the admission of sugar into the distilleries, when barley had approached the importation price. He wished, however, to assure the House, that agriculture was by no means in so flourishing a condition as many gentlemen imagined. He wished, however, to ascertain a fact much more immediately interesting to the agriculturists; namely, whether the distillers were to be permitted to convert rum into gin, now that rum was admitted at the reduced duty; if so, he understood the consumption of grain in distilleries would be at an end.
 Mr. Benett  wished explicitly to understand, whether the rectifier was to have a power of converting rum into gin ["No, no"]. If the rectifier was in effect to have that power, it would directly destroy the trade in the spirit called gin, which was at present made from corn grown in England.
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, that he held in his hand a petition, signed by no fewer than 23,000 journeymen silk-weavers of the metropolis, praying that the prohibition of the importation of foreign wrought Silks might not be removed. Understanding that the right hon. gentleman opposite wished the discussion of this subject to be postponed to a later period of the evening, he would not say any thing at present on the merits of the case. He must, however, beg the House to observe, that there was this difference between the present petition and those that had been before presented on the same subject; namely, that all the other petitions were from
 782
 Mr. Butterworth  suggested the propriety of extending the same assistance to the manufacturer, as was intended in the proposed plan to be given to the merchant, with respect to the stock on hand. There should be no difference as to the allowance of the drawbacks on the duties paid between either description, as, in his judgment, their claims to consideration stood upon equal grounds.
 Mr. Butterworth  thought that 7 s d
 Mr. Hume  added his entreaties to those of his friends, that the right hon. gentleman would give some consideration to the grievance which must be suffered by those who had large stocks. He was not hostile to the measure of the chancellor of the Exchequer, but he had spoken with several merchants, who assured him that their losses would not be less than from 7,000 l l
 Mr. Hume , in reply, contended, that the consumption of sugar in this country had by no means kept pace with what we had a right to expect. It had been said, that the West-Indians were likely to understand their own interest better than other persons; but he could not help thinking, that they laboured under a complete delusion with respect to the present question. There could be no doubt that the immediate effect of a reduction of the price of sugar would be a great increase of consumption; but, if the price were to rise, the consumption would necessarily be reduced, and the difficulties under which the West-India interest was labouring would be greatly increased. He contended, notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. member for Taunton, that the reduction of these duties would operate a great relief to the West-India interest. But he had not brought forward the motion merely on account of the West-India interest. If they were determined not to receive relief, he did not wish to press it upon them; but, on behalf of the consumer—on behalf of the people of England—he felt it right to call for a reduction of these duties. The consumption of this commodity, instead of increasing with the increase of population, had remained nearly stationary during the last three years. He was quite aware that it was useless to press this measure, since those who were most in-
 799
 Mr. Hume  said, he was reluctant, after the liberal policy which his majesty's ministers had adopted, to offer any opposition to their measures; and, unless he felt convinced that the proposition he had now to submit to the committee would, in no material degree, affect the revenue of the country, he would have refrained from bringing it forward. As, however, it related to ah article of general consumption, and as the reduction which he was about to recommend would, he be-
 783 s s 784 s s l s
 Mr. Wallace  said, it was satisfactory to find, that none of those gentlemen who opposed the measure called in question the principles on which it was founded. It was also a great satisfaction to him to find that it was chiefly opposed by gentlemen who represented places in which the silk trade was carried on, or which were connected with it; and such gentlemen, it might be supposed, were some what influenced by their constituents, who always foresaw danger in every measure which went to interfere with their monopoly. They were subject to alarm, and were frightened at every approach which was made to those privileges, within which they were intrenched. He did not blame them, for every man was bound to defend what he supposed to be his own interest; but this he thought should be a caution to the House not to be too ready to act on the alarms and apprehended dangers of the persons complaining. The House had begun to act on the principle of giving freedom of trade, not for the benefit of a few adventurers, but for the benefit of the country at large, and of all persons concerned in trade. In the measure proposed, the House would only be acting on principles which were found to be eminently advantageous in all other manufactures; and he did not know why
 821 822 823
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought that there had been so much of good will and such a spirit of conciliation shown by ministers in their endeavours to meet the views of all parties, that it would be best to withdraw any opposition, and trust to their considerate mode of conduct for some relief as to the duties already paid for stock on hand.
 Mr. Haldimand  said, that there ought certainly to be an allowance for the stock on hand. The trade was generally conducted by highly respectable persons. There could be no difficulty in adjusting the drawback according to the real value. An oath might be administered in doubtful cases. It might be useful for the House to know in what light the French manufacturers looked upon this measure as it regarded their interests. The hon. gentleman then read a letter from a Lyons manufacturer, dated 24th February, in the original. But as there seemed to be some difficulty in the mode of communication, he proceeded to translate a few sentences. The letter imported, that the
 828
 Mr. Haldimand  advised that there should be no division.
 Mr. Huskisson  wished that he could see his way, in making an allowance for the stock on hand, which he confessed might, in strict equity, be necessary. But he had been informed, that the trade generally thought that the time to be allowed before the carrying of this measure into operation, would secure them from any considerable loss. He would concede thus much, that if upon consideration he could find out some mode of arrangement to meet that part of the sub-
 829
 Mr. Huskisson  spoke to the following effect:—Sir, although my right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, when he brought forward his general view of the finances of the country, stated with a perspicuity peculiarly his own, the ground upon which it was his intention to propose a repeal of the duty on the importation of silk, yet, as strong objections have been taken to this part of my right hon. friend's plan, both in this House and out of doors, however unable I may be to follow in the steps of my right hon. friend, I trust I shall experience the indulgence of the committee, while I state, in his unavoidable absence, the views of the government on this important subject. I apprehend, that to the general plan proposed by my right hon. friend, two descriptions of objections have been taken in this House and out of doors. The first class of objections is, that it would be more desirable to make any relief from taxation which can be afforded, in the present state of the finances of the country, fall upon some direct taxes. The other class of objections is made by those persons who wish the laws relative to the trade in silk tore-main as they are. Now with respect to the first class of objections, I own it appears to me, that the course pursued by his majesty's government is, in the present state of our finances, and considered with reference to the various interests of the country, best calculated to advance those interests. In commencing measures of relief, his majesty's government felt the greatest anxiety, as it was their first duty, to afford relief to those humbler classes of society, which had been more immediately affected by the increase of taxation during the war on some articles of general consumption. The taxes on salt, malt, and leather, therefore, were those which the government thought it
 801 l 802 l l 803 804 805 l l 806 l impetus 807 808 809 ad valorem 810 811 812 813 814
 Mr. Huskisson  presumed the hon. gentleman was aware, that the distiller and the rectifier were two distinct callings in this country. If the question applied to the latter, it was certainly matter of great difficulty to answer the hon. gentleman, whether the rectifier should be allowed to decline the spirit in the market which had been distilled from corn by the distillers, and, by an easy process, to convert rum, the produce of a British colony, into what was considered as British spirits.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he had been given to understand that it was the intention of the hon. member for Aberdeen either to oppose the grant of the duties on sugar, or to propose an amendment on the vote. As, however, he himself had nothing to propose but that those duties should be continued in the usual manner, for the usual period, and at their present amount, he should reserve any observations he had to make on the subject until he had heard the objections of the hon. member. He then moved, that the several duties upon sugar granted in the last session of parliament be continued for the year ensuing.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that if he understood the hon. member for Aberdeen's observations respecting the effect of high duties on tobacco and wine, it was, that they prevented the consumption of those articles. This, however, hardly seemed to be the correct conclusion, from the statement on which the hon. member's Opinions had been formed; which were, that the high duties gave rise to extensive smuggling, and although the revenue was thereby diminished, the consumption was increased. Then, as the hon. member admitted, there was little or no smuggling of sugar, it was difficult to understand how he made the argument which he drew from the duties on tobacco apply to sugar. The same might be said of the wine duties, even if the facts assumed by the hon. member should be admitted for the purpose of argument. But, the hon. member had said that, from the termination of the war in 1814, there had been no increase in the consumption of sugar. Now this was so far from the fact, that he would assert, without the fear of contradiction, that no article had experienced an increased consumption proportioned to that of sugar, since the year 1814. He would not detain the House at any length upon this part of the subject, but it was quite impossible, after the hon. member's assertion, that he (Mr. Huskisson) could forbear to state the fact as it really stood. For the three years ending on the 5th of January, 1814, the average consumption of sugar was 2,215,000 cwt.; in 1821, it was 2,763,000 cwt.; making an increase of 548,000 cwt., or 20 per cent on the total consumption in seven years. By a document which was on the table of the House, and which would shortly be in the possession of hon. members, it would be seen that the consumption, up to January last, was 3,330,000 cwt., equal to an increase of 40 per cent on the consumption of the last nine years. In the face of these figures, he would ask the hon. gentleman, whether the high duties on sugar (and he had admitted that there was no smuggling) had checked its consumption? In Ireland, unfortunately, the circumstances of the country prevented the great bulk of the people from using this article so extensively as the people of England. But their distresses were not to be relieved by the diminution of a halfpenny in the pound
 787 s d s d 788 s d s 789 l
 Mr. Huskisson  explained, that he had wished to state, that though in 1814, from the accession of the new colonies, there had been an increase of surplus supply, and though that supply had gone on increasing, the consumption had been increasing in so much more rapid a degree, that in a short time there would most probably be no surplus. With respect to the production of these accounts, he had stated nothing beyond what was to be found in the accounts before the House: he had only taken the pains to extract the accounts of the different years, to show that the consumption had been increasing more rapidly than the produce, so that if the production were, as in the distressed state of the West Indies it probably would be, checked, the demand would soon equal the consumption. As to the suggestion of the hon. member for Taunton, for admitting sugar into the distilleries when barley rose to a certain price, if there was a general feeling in the House and the country, that liberty should be given to the distillers to avail themselves of sugar under those circumstances, he would say for himself, that he saw no objection to the measure. He did not see, however, that there was any immediate relief to be expected to the West-India interest from this measure. Barley was admitted into our, ports when the
 794 s
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that before the discussion went further, it might be convenient that he should put the House in possession of the intended course of proceeding that night. As his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, would not be in his place, in consequence of indisposition, the duty would devolve on him of submitting the views of go-
 781
 Mr. Manning  thought the proposition for the admission of sugar into the distilleries, previously to the opening the ports to foreign barley, so clear that every one would assent to it. All that was contended for was, that sugar should come into
 798
 Mr. W. Peel  said, he was persuaded that the silk trade would feel fully satisfied with the proposition of government, as expressed in the statement of his right hon. friend. The remission of the duties on the raw silk would considerably increase, he had no doubt, the profits of the trade, without at all injuring the revenue.
 Mr. A. Grant  said, that if, when the time arrived that it would be advisable to distil from sugar, the measure was not brought forward by his majesty's ministers, he trusted the hon. member for Aberdeen would himself originate it.
 Sir. I. Coffin  thought, that his majesty's ministers had shewn great liberality towards the West-India interest.
 Mr. Baring  said, he did not mean to oppose the bringing up the report. This declaration must not, however, be attributed to any alteration in his opinion, but to that due deference which he felt for the opinion of the House, of which he certainly must say, he never witnessed a more decided expression than on last evening. He was, therefore, bound to presume that he was wrong, and that parliament was right; and that none of those evils would ensue which his apprehensions for the interest of the silk trade had induced him to entertain. He nevertheless trusted, that sufficient time would be allowed for a full examination of the details of the measure.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he felt much obliged to his hon. friend for the candid manner in which he had stated his intentions with regard to the future progress of the measure. He was not anxious for greater expedition than would be necessary to give all parties concerned the proposed relief at the earliest possible period. It was with this view that he wished the resolution to be now brought up, in order that the bill might be brought in as speedily as might be.
 Mr. Baring  was aware that if these duties were to be taken off, it was important to proceed with their remission as soon as possible; but he thought that much difficulty would be found in dealing with the drawback to be allowed upon the stock on hand. Perhaps the parties would be better satisfied if government proceeded by degrees with this experiment, rather than remit the duty at once.
 Mr. Hume  thought that the principles which had been laid down by every intelligent man connected with trade, who had spoken to this subject, were such as left no doubt of the policy which his majesty's ministers were in this instance pursuing. He could not concur, therefore, with his hon. friend, in considering the measure in question a mere experiment.
 850
 Mr. Ellice  said, he was satisfied that government was disposed to settle this question fairly, which would best be done out of doors, without a discussion in that House; and he thought he might safety state, that if justice were done to the parties interested by a return of the bounties on their stock, they would instantly resume their wonted occupations.
 Sir H. Parnell  wished to have it understood, that the proposed arrangement of duties on thrown silk, and foreign silk goods should not be considered as a final settlement of them. The duty of 7 s d
 Mr. Alderman Wood  gave credit to ministers for a desire to meet all the difficulties of this subject; but feared that many would be encountered in dealing with the stocks on hand.
 Mr. Plunkett  observed, that whatever difference of opinion might exist with regard to the form of the petition, all persons must agree in the great respectability of the petitioners, and that their wishes must always be entitled to the utmost attention. On the subject of form, however, he thought his hon. friend behind him mistaken. It was clear to him that the petitioners did not assume any corporate character. They merely called themselves "the undersigned Roman Catholic Bishops." Now, the fact was, that a Catholic bishop in Ireland was as much a bishop as a Protestant bishop. He was a bishop of the Christian Church. He was competent to confer ordination. Nay, were any one of them to conform to the Protestant faith, he would instantly become a bishop of the Protestant church. One word as to the facts of the case. The opinions which had been expressed by the hon. members for Waterford and Midhurst were entirely his own. He entirely agreed also in some of the allegations of the petition. He agreed in the great importance of education, and he agreed in the still greater importance of making religious instruction the basis of all education. Every other notion on the subject was chimerical and impracticable. To make education rest on a moral basis alone, was not only useless but absolutely pernicious. Nothing, however, was, in his opinion, more to be deprecated than the separation of the schools in Ireland. But, if the union of morals and religion was to be converted into an instrument of proselytism, that was another question. How far that had been attempted, would be a fit subject for inquiry; as well as how far it might be practicable to separate the moral from the religious instruction in the same school.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  also regretted that the subject had been brought before the House, before means had been adopted to acquire the best information respecting it. He denied, however, what had fallen from an hon. gentleman opposite respecting it. He would state what had taken place in two of the counties of Ireland, almost exclusively Catholic; he meant Limerick and Cork. In 1817, the number of schools in these two counties was three. They increased progressively, until last year they amounted to 108. In other parts of Ireland he knew that there had not only been no partiality in the establishment or administration of the schools in question, but that even Catholics did not believe that there was; for within these few days he had received an application from two Catholic priests, soliciting aid for the establishment of schools of a similar nature. Of course they had no suspicion of any design of proselytising their flocks or they would have felt it their duty to resist such establishments. The fact was, however, that many persons were deceived with respect to the objects of the Kildare-street Association. To show the benefits which that association had conferred on Ireland, he would refer to two reports from the commissioners of education in Ireland. The first of those reports showed what was formerly the exclusive study of the lower orders in Ireland who had been taught to read. It stated, that the most productive, but at the same time flagitious articles of traffic, were cheap editions of publications of the vilest nature, calculated to pollute and degrade the minds of the people, instead of tending to their improvement and civilization. They had, in fact, therefore, become more corrupt as they became more instructed, and had degenerated into worse citizens, subjects, and men. By the second of the reports of the commission to which he had alluded, it appeared, that the Kildare-street Society, by printing and circulating cheap works of another character, had, to use their own expression,
 842
 Mr. Secretary Peel  expressed his great satisfaction, that on this important question all parties were agreed in principle.
 843
 Mr. C. Grant  said, he did not mean to express his approbation of the whole of the conduct of the association, whose exertions had been so frequently referred to: he was, notwithstanding, well satisfied that the charge of proselytism was not one that could be fairly brought against it. He contended, that the society had shown a great degree of liberality in permitting the reading of the scriptures in the Roman catholic version. 844 845 846 847
 The Attorney-general  rose to second the amendment. The present bill, he said appeared to him to be vexatious and every way unnecessary. The definition of the offence in the bill which the hon. member for Galway had introduced last year was the wilful ill-treatment of horses and cattle. He understood, however, that the object of the present bill was to render the ill-treatment of those animals, arising from inadvertence and negligence, a misdemeanour. There was one clause of the bill which, in charity to the framer, he hoped would be withdrawn. He alluded to the clause which authorized any individual to apprehend a person in the act of ill-treating cattle. He knew from the zeal which the hon. member had heretofore displayed in the cause of humanity, that not a week would elapse before he would be forced into some desperate conflict in attempting to enforce the law. He remembered that the hon. member had been extremely anxious to introduce the word "bull" into the bill of last year. After a long discussion, however, the bull was rejected by a large majority. The
 867
 Dr. Lushington  considered the present bill to be a necessary adjunct to the act of the last year; the effect of which act was, that the public feeling was no longer shocked with those atrocities which had so long disgraced the national character. Lord Erskine had, years ago, endeavoured without success, to provide that remedy, which it was the happier lot of the hon. member for Galway to effect.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he should oppose the measure for the reasons which had led him to oppose the existing act of the horn* member for Galway.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that if the present were a motion for the Speaker leaving the chair, for the purpose of going into a committee, there might be some ground for the opposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen; but really there was not the slightest pretence for that opposition, when it was considered, that this was merely a motion for leave to bring in the bill. As to the documents which had been moved for relative to this subject, his right hon. friend was as anxious as the hon. member for Aberdeen could be, that the House should be put in possession of every information, and that those documents should be laid on the table before this measure was discussed. He should feel that he was fighting with a shadow, if he contended for one moment with such an argument as that which had been brought forward by the hon. member for Aberdeen. If his right hon. friend had deferred moving for leave to bring in this bill to a later period of the session, the hon. gentleman opposite would have been one of the first to object to the measure, on the ground of its not having; been brought early enough before the House. The present motion would pledge no man to any opinion on the merits of the bill: there would be ample opportunity hereafter for considering its details; and he should be wasting the time of the House, if he said any thing in reply to the opposition which had been made to so fair and reasonable a proposition. With respect to the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Wicklow,
 861
 Mr. Calcraft  observed, that the salary of the Clerk of the Ordnance was very inadequate to the labours he had to discharge, and to the rank and station of the individual; for the office was generally filled by a member of parliament. As he had formerly filled the office, he knew that the time of the Clerk of the Ordnance was wholly employed; and he thought the present salary, which was under 1,000 l
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought, without any reference to the comparative claims of the secretaries of the Treasury and Admiralty, that this subject was well worthy of the attention of his majesty's government. He was not, of course, prepared to give any assurance on the subject, as such an arrangement did not rest with him personally, but he repeated, that the subject deserved consideration.
 Mr. Hobhouse  observed, that the hon. and gallant officer opposite was mistaken, when he had contended, the other night, that the system of Barracks was recognised by the petition of rights. Complaints were made, indeed, at the period to which the hon. and gallant officer adverted, of the billeting of soldiers, on the people, but there were no such thing as a standing army at that time. The barrack system had long ago been decided against, as a novel and unconstitutional mode of lodging a standing army. That system was calculated, perhaps, to turn out a finer soldier for the parade—a living machine, more likely to pay prompt and implicit obedience to his officers; but he was sure the hon. and gallant officer, who was not less an excellent citizen, than an honourable soldier, did not wish to make a mere automaton of a soldier, or to perpetuate a system which separated the character of the soldier and the citizen. Long before the existence of the barrack system, our soldiers had distinguished themselves by victories, as splendid as any which had since been obtained. The soldier who mixed freely with his countrymen might not make so good a machine for the parade, but he was a better man, and a better citizen. The union of the characters of the soldier and the citizen had been strongly insisted upon by our ablest constitutional writers. The gallant officer had told them the other night, and perhaps he could not be blamed for doing so, when surrounded with such applauders, that the people of England had themselves called for barracks throughout the kingdom. In support of that opinion he had quoted the bill of rights, but the bill of rights only denounced the quartering of soldiers on the people as a grievance. How, then, could the gallant officer, in mirth or in seriousness, as an argument, or as a piece of waggery, interpret such a declaration into a preference of the barrack to the billeting system? If he was anxious to ascertain the feeling of the people of England on the subject, let him look both to the practice of our ancestors, and to the sentiments entertained at the present day; or, rather, let him confess, that the system owed its support to those alone who maintained the necessity of arming one portion of the people against the rest. If there existed no other use in the motion with which he should conclude,
 863 l l 864 l
 Mr. G. Bankes  expressed his anxiety to go into a committee, where the House would have an opportunity of examining all the details of the measure. He must object most strongly to the spirit of levity with which the question had been treated, and the sort of  argumentum ad hominem
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, he could not agree with his right hon. friend the member for Waterford, in objecting to the discretion of the Roman Catholic bishops in presenting this petition. He thought it much better that the whole truth should be told relative to Ireland, than that we should be too discreet in our discussions relative to that country. The Roman Catholic bishops, if they thought the education of their communicants should be always combined with religious instruction, were right in declaring their sentiments honestly to parliament. Whether he (Mr. B. agreed with them or not, was of little importance, but he did not think their opinions were at all different from the promoters of the exclusive system in England, called the National System. The Kildare-street Society had certainly done a great deal of good, but not one thousandth part the good they would have done, had they not insisted, as a  sine qua non
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  adverted to the shocking barbarities which were every day practised on cattle, and said, that there never was a measure of more humanity than the one now proposed by the hon. member for Galway. He briefly pointed out the evil effects which an habitual practice of tormenting animals, or seeing them tormented, produced on the mind, and illustrated his proposition by an allusion to Hogarth, whose hero, commenced his progress in cruelty with tying a canister to a dog's tail, and ended it by committing murder.
 Mr. Dawson  objected to the form of the petition, and to the Catholic bishops of Ireland considering themselves as a Corporation. With respect to education in Ireland, it was increasing among all classes, Catholic and Protestant. Tracing the operations of the Kildare-street Society, in that respect, he stated, that in 1773 there were in the west and southwest parts of Ireland but eight schools; that in 1816 there were 800; and that now in 1824, there were 1,122. When the subject came to be discussed, it would be proved incontestibly, that of all the institutions of a similar kind in Ireland which had received the assistance of parliament, there was not one so deserving as the Kildare-street Society.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that as there would occur future opportunities for the discussion of the points referred to in the petition, he should at present express his entire dissent from the principle laid down by the petitioners, namely, that a separate fund should be set aside for the education of the Irish catholic poor. Heretofore it was considered by the hon. gentleman who introduced the petition, and by those with whom he generally acted, that the great object of such exertions should be to correct, as far as it was possible, the many causes that led to separation and disunion in Ireland, and to substitute principles of union and conciliation, in their place. On what grounds the new view taken that night by the hon. gentleman was founded, he was at a loss to discover; but he felt that he was fortified by the repeated declarations in that House, that such a system of separation would never be sanctioned. Was it pretended that the Kildare Association refused grants to the catholic schools? No such a charge, he was convinced, could be established. The only restriction in the issue of such grants was, that the Scriptures should be read in such schools without note or comment. That was the only restriction; and it had been sanctioned over and over again by the voice of parliament. Where there were so many points of doctrine on which the protestants and catholics differed, surely it was of importance to fix on one main principle in which all christians agreed. Was it pretended that the catholics of Ireland were unwilling to avail themselves of these grants? The returns gave the answer to such a charge. Let the House look at the state of Ireland
 839
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that undoubtedly he should have wished to state the value of the land, and he should take the earliest opportunity of obtaining the information. But when they found that in 51 parishes, taken without any selection, except that the first desired to take the benefit of the act, the rate of composition was so extremely small, there was a  prima facie 855 856 857 l s l l s s l l 858 d
 Mr. Goulburn  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Tithes Composition act of last session. He never had expected that that measure could at once have been rendered so perfect, as to supersede the necessity of future amendment. No one, therefore, could now be surprised that he took the earliest opportunity of submitting to the consideration of the House, such amendments as, in his judgment, the measure required, and which, he trusted, would, in their progress, give to it greater and, ultimately, complete efficacy. At the same time he thought it right to state, that from time to time, it might hereafter be necessary to submit still farther amendments, until at last the moment arrived, when he should be enabled to introduce a measure, which would carry into full effect the object and intention of parliament. The measure of last year had been open to a variety of objections. It was met by two classes of objectors; one of whom was adverse to the entire principle, and the other, though admitting the wisdom of the principle, disagreed with regard to the details. As to those who were altogether opposed to the principle of the measure, he saw no occasion to address himself to them; for parliament had pronounced an opinion, that some measure for the composition of tithes in Ireland was necessary. He had carefully examined all the objections that had been raised against the introduction of the measure; and, after full and mature consideration, he saw no reason to alter his opinion, that the principle of commutation of tithes for a limited time was essentially just: experience had abundantly proved, that the measure in its operation was practicable, and justice on the one hand, and policy on the other, required that he should stand forward, from time to time to submit such alterations as seemed likely to render the measure more perfect. He had now to deal with the second class of objectors; namely, those who admitted the truth of the principle, but disliked the details of the measure. These
 852 853 854 s d s d s d s d d d s d d d
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the bill, on account of the great disproportion would it would establish between punishment and crime, and in which he saw an attempt to proceed still further in the march of penalty. The bill of last session had, it was said, effected much good; but, because it did not do all that the hon. member contemplated, he now came forward, and called on the House to tolerate a most disproportionate punishment, by making the offence a misdemeanour, at the discretion of the magistrate.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that with regard to the constitutional question he would take the advice of the hon. gentleman, and avoid it altogether, as it had been sufficiently discussed on a former occasion. He would undertake, however, to shew how the barrack system came to be so generally extended. It was well known, that various petitions had been presented, from time to time, praying for relief from the billeting system, which, at the breaking out of the revolutionary war, was resorted to as an act of necessity. In 1803, when the war broke out again, government deemed it advisable to send troops to the coast, as a means of providing against invasion. It was impossible to provide the troops so employed with quarters at the public-houses in those districts, and various petitions against it were again forwarded to parliament. Accordingly it was determined, in order to relieve the people from the inconvenience of the billeting system, that several barracks should be built within those districts. Government could not, therefore, be charged with having built those barracks in opposition to the liberties of the subject, since they were for the protection of the country, and in compliance with the desire of the people themselves. Besides, the number of these barracks had been greatly diminished since the peace. The hon. gentleman had stated the intention of the government to erect barracks at Charing-cross, as one of his reasons for opposing the vote; but whatever might eventually be done upon that subject, he was not himself apprised of any intention to convert the Kings Mews into barracks for the soldiery. The Board of Ordnance, in met, had no power to decide the question, though he would confess that, in his opinion, such a change would be attended with great advantage. He would oppose this single fact to all the reasoning of the hon. gentleman—that before the revolutionary war, all the soldiery in London were
 865
 Mr. Abercromby  observed, that if he were asked whether he approved the system of reading the Bible in these schools without note or comment, he should answer "Yes." Great good had been effected where this was the practice; especially in the south of Ireland. It was extremely perilous, however, to allow the subject to become a matter of public discussion under the present circumstances; and therefore, without, of course, ascribing the slightest blame to the presentation of the petition, he regretted that it had been
 841
 Mr. Grattan  thought it was premature to talk of amending the act of last session, as they were as yet entirely ignorant of the operation of that act. When they were told that the act had been carried into effect in 250 parishes, he begged to state that it could not yet have been put into operation in any one. The commissioners had indeed, they were told, sent in a number of certificates, but these were merely certificates of the agreement; the rate remained to be assessed on the individual tithe-payers, and to be levied; and until; the House saw the operation carried through in some one parish they had no ground of judging as to the merits of the bill. He had taken some trouble with the bill, in its progress through the House, and had subsequently, endeavoured to put it into operation in Ireland; and as what the House wanted was practical knowledge on the subject, he should state what had taken place at two vestries which he had attended. Of the first vestry he had attended he was chosen chairman. His first business, therefore, was, of course, to attempt to explain the object and nature of the bill; but he found this was a hopeless task, for of the whole vestry, which was composed of about twenty persons, there were not two who could understand two lines of it; and this he believed would be found to be the case generally throughout Ireland. He had then resorted to the right hon. gentleman's circular letter, in which they were directed to an admirable clause, which had found its way into the bill by accident. The rector being present the vestry were afraid to say any thing before him, as to the value of the parish. No one would speak, It was then suggested, that the rector should state what sum he would
 859 l l l l l l
 Mr. Grattan  rose to present a petition from the Catholic Bishops and Clergy of Ireland, signed most respectably by men of exemplary piety and learning. They allege, that the funds appropriated by parliament to the Education of the Poor in Ireland amount to a very large sum; but they complain that from the manner they are regulated in their distribution, the practice is at variance with the principles of the roman catholic religion. The indiscriminate use of the Bible in the schools, which is uniformly insisted upon, is what these petitioners allege to be opposed to their doctrine. Their impression was, that as a very great proportion of the Irish poor are catholics, the education of their own poor ought to be under the superintendance of the Catholic clergy; and, consequently, a proportion of the charitable funds at their disposal. These funds, it would be recollected, amounted to 70,000 l l l 838
 Mr. Buxton  said, he should cordially support the motion. He had asked a friend what effect the bill of last year had produced, and the answer was, that it had put an end to half the cruelty which formerly prevailed in the country.
 Mr. J. Smith  concurred in strongly recommending the furtherance of the objects of the Kildare-street Society.
 Mr. Warre  said, it had been stated that the cases which measures of this kind brought before magistrates were in general of so doubtful a character, that it was a chance whether conviction would or would not take place. Now, he denied this to be the fact; for an overwhelming majority of the cases recently prosecuted were of so atrocious a character, that con-
 868
 Mr. Hume  contended that the arguments of the gallant officer were not applicable to the present state of the country. He had described a state of expected invasion but we were now at peace, and consequently exempted from the necessity upon which he had rested his defence of the system. A man did not cease to be a citizen when he became a soldier, and should not be regarded as a mere automaton, to be moved only by the will of his commanding officer. If they wished to keep the soldiers separate from the people, that was no reason why they should multiply barracks through the town. They might remove them from the houses of the people. The sum called for by this grant was monstrous, and the object of it was, to maintain a military despotism. For these reasons he should vote for the amendment of his hon. friend.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had hitherto taken no part against the hon. member's mea-
 866
 Mr. Hume  trusted that as the right hon. gentleman expressed his readiness to increase the salary of an officer in the Ordnance department, because the duties of the office were too heavy for the salary, he would also be ready to reduce the salaries of some other officers in the same department whose salaries were too heavy for their duties.
 Mr. Hume  did not find himself informed by the statement of the right hon. gentleman, of the real nature of the alterations proposed; but he was convinced that by this sort of legislation no good would be done to Ireland. The real remedy for the evil was to break up the Church establishment in Ireland. Nothing else would be effectual [hear! hear!]. The members of the established church in Ireland were but as one out of fourteen, and they made the other thirteen pay for the support of their church. The government would do well to follow the example that had been set them in other countries, and to remove this source of irritation. They
 860
 Mr. R. Martin  said, he was not uninformed, that the hon. member for Aberdeen intended to shew him up. He would say further, that the hon. member for Aberdeen would not shew up the honourable man who represented the county of Galway, unless he had the license of the latter for so doing. With respect to bull-baiting the learned attorney-general had his (Mr. M's) two guineas in his pocket, and had given it as his opinion, that a bull was entitled to legal protection.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  objected to going
 869
 Mr. Huskisson  spoke against the bill. The House, he said, was now required to increase the punishment for this offence, although the hon. member for Galway had shown that this was not necessary. The hon. member had himself stated to the House, that, generally, when he obtained a conviction, he paid the penalty himself, the persons accused being mostly too poor to pay it. This, surely, proved, that the present bill was sufficiently severe.
 Mr. W. Smith  was convinced that the bill of his hon. friend, ridiculed as it had been, had already conferred great benefit upon the community. He conceived the object of the present bill to be a good one, and was therefore disposed to go into the committee upon it.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he had presented a petition in the last session, from the Catholic Archbishops of Ireland, complaining of restrictions imposed, by the existing laws, upon endowing and building school-houses,
 848 849
 Sir J. Newport  suggested, across the table, that the mere statement of the rate per acre, without specifying the value of the land, would afford very little information. In some parishes of the diocese of Cashel, the land was very good; but in others it was exceedingly poor.
 Sir J. Newport  lamented that this petition had been presented before the whole subject had been investigated by a committee. So long ago as June last, he had moved for a variety of papers, illustrative of the subject. To that motion no return had been made, and on the 9th of last month he had renewed his motion; when it was ordered by the House, that the papers should be furnished forthwith. This neglect in complying with the orders of the House, was extremely culpable. His object, in moving for the papers in the last session was, that they might be ready at the commencement of the present, to be communicated to a committee for the purpose of investigating the whole merits of the case. After an inquiry such as that to which he had alluded, it appeared to him that it might be very practicable to place the subject on a footing satisfactory and conciliatory to both parties; but he deprecated any discussion of the question, until such an inquiry had been completed. The Catholic body complained that they had not any part in the management of the funds in question. The trustees of Maynooth college were of both persuasions; why, therefore, might not the managers of these funds be so too? He trusted that both parties would moderate their temper, allay their prejudices, and approach one another in a way calculated to diffuse the blessings of education throughout the country.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that some of the smaller dealers were under apprehension lest their goods must go through the hands of the great manufacturers.
 Mr. D. Browne , as an instance of the inaccuracy of the present surveys, mentioned that a gentleman of the name of M. Farlan had surveyed the county of Mayo, when it was covered with snow.
 Mr. Ellice  rose to present a petition from the Ribbon-weavers and Silk-manufacturers of Coventry, against the proposed alteration in the laws relative to the Silk Manufacture. The petition had, he said, been in his hands some days, but had not been previously presented, through mistake. He presented it now for the purpose of availing himself of the opportunity of stating, that the leading men in the trade had received an explanation from the Treasury that morning, which gave them the most complete satisfaction. Those of Coventry had already left town with the determination of putting all their people into immediate active employment.
 Mr. Ellice  repeated, that the deputation of silk manufacturers from the country, who had waited on the chancellor of the Exchequer on this subject, had returned home perfectly satisfied, and had considered themselves very liberally dealt with by his majesty's government. There was to be a meeting of silk manufacturers of the city of London that day, for the purpose of pressing on government, and on parliament, a further extension of time. Knowing what he did of the temper of the House, he had recommended the parties to desist from any such application; lest, should the matter be again brought under consideration, a curtailment, instead of an extension of time, should be the consequence. He
 870
 Colonel Trench  strongly recommended that the new surveys should be made under the direction of the Board of Ordnance. They would then be executed by men of science, and would be uniform and satisfactory.
 Mr. Dawson  expressed his perfect concurrence in the hon. gentleman's views, and his hope that the whole subject would be fully and satisfactorily discussed. For himself, he was particularly interested in it; for he represented a county which had
 871
 Mr. Goulburn  thought an Ordnance survey a necessary preliminary. An accurate map of the country would be an excellent foundation for further proceedings. The committee, however, would be the place in which this and all other matters of detail might be most advantageously discussed.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he rose to move two resolutions; the one declaratory of the expediency and necessity of a new Survey and Valuation of Ireland, the other for the appointment of a select committee on the subject. It would not be necessary for him to detain the House long, as he understood there was no intention to oppose his motion. In fact, when an hon. friend of his gave notice of this motion for him, he was not aware that there was a sum in the estimates for the year to be applied to the very purpose of carrying such a survey into effect. He was glad to find that his majesty's government thought with him on the subject; and, so far would his motion be from interfering with their intentions, that he hoped it would prove in cordial unison with them. It was indispensable that an affair of such magnitude should be first considered in all its details by a select committee of that House.
 Mr. Huskisson  replied, that every thing would be done that could be done to facilitate the matter. The goods would be received in parcels, and there would be only such precautions used as were necessary to ascertain that they were really new.
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that undoubtedly he did not conceive that any proposition for a further extension of time would be favourably received by the House. In his own opinion, the time which had been granted, was not at all called for; but he had ceded it, in deference to the feelings of the parties interested, and with a view to conciliate, as much as possible, those who thought their interests might suffer by the measure.
 Sir J. Newport  expatiated on the evils of the present system, but was of opinion, that if the surveys were executed by the Ordnance, they would take too much time, and when completed would not be sufficient for the required purpose.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he rose to notice some observations which had fallen from the noble mover, and from his hon. and learned friend. He did not pretend to be so well acquainted with the usages of parliament as they were; but, if he did not mistake it was not a matter of course that papers should be produced; in order to see if something might not be found in them, that would warrant a charge against government. Such a motion ought to rest at least on prima facie evidence, that the papers did contain matter sufficient to induce the House to question the conduct of the government? But, he would ask the House whether, in any thing that had fallen from the noble lord, there was any rational ground for presuming that the correspondence contained matter which would authorise an inquiry into the conduct of the government? He could not suffer the charge that had been made to pass by without bearing his testimony to the fact, that it was utterly impossible that there could exist in the breast of any man anxiety more intense or more sincere, than existed in the breast of the noble marquis at the head of the Irish government, to find out even an excuse to extend the mercy of the government in every case which could admit of it; but, in the case in question, mercy could not be extended consistently with the due administration of justice and the claims of the loyal and the well disposed part of the community. The persons who had been convicted were, in the opinion of the law
 891 892 893
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he was very sensible of the advantages which Ireland had reaped from the able and persevering efforts of distinguished individuals immediately connected with England. He considered this circumstance a most fortunate omen for Ireland; and when persons of the rank, weight, character, and talent of the noble lord, devoted themselves to the discussion of questions of so much difficulty and importance, the result must be happy for the country whose cause he advocated. He felt himself in a distressing situation with regard to the present motion; for as he was convinced in his heart, that the noble lord had only the most enlightened and the best intentions he felt pained to be under the necessity of resisting it. He should not, however discharge his duty, if he supported the proposition. He did not think that the noble lord had made out any sufficient case for the production of the papers, and believed, that if the motion were carried, it would be injurious to the best interests of Ireland. As an Irishman, he had little reason to be well satisfied with the marquis of Wellesley; at least, his sanguine expectations as to what would be accomplished by his administration had been greatly disappointed: therefore, on this occasion he did not appear as the advocate of the Irish government, though he was bound not to allow false impressions to go abroad as to its measures. He was satisfied that in this case the Irish government had acted rightly; for he knew enough of the state of Ireland to be satisfied, that nothing could have been more unwise than for the lord lieutenant to capitulate with persons of such a description. When they came forward, talking of their arms, and boasting of their numbers, and when one of their leaders had been found guilty by an impartial jury, the government of Ireland would have compromised not only its own dignity, but the safety of the state, if it had at all listened to the terms alluded to in the papers. If he had been asked, he should have given his advice for that course which the government had most properly followed. He hoped the noble lord would not persist in pressing the House to a division.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that though the noble mover had made what was usually considered the concluding speech, yet the hon. member for Shrewsbury had subsequently drawn an infer-
 900
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said:—As this bill, Sir, provides for an evil which I consider to be one of great magnitude in the present state of society, I mean the legal prohibition of the sale of game, I shall certainly give my vote for it, reserving to
 913 l 914 l à priori 915 916 917 918 919
 Mr. Ridley Colburne  thought that the expectation of underselling poachers by a repeal of the present law would not be realised. Pheasants and hares were already sold by poachers at two shillings, and partridges at six-pence each. As to the argument, that people would prefer dealing with the legal trader to buying their game of poachers, this was a distinction, with respect to property in animals feræ naturæ, which was not likely to enter the heads of purchasers. The remedy proposed was, he thought, of an extremely doubtful nature, as it would establish a legal market for the sale of game, without ascertaining the means by which the market was to be supplied.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion, that the best thing that could happen to Wales, would be the abolition of the present jurisdiction, with a view to assimilate the Welsh jurisdiction to that of England; but that could not be accomplished without many concurrent measures. The English judges had quite enough to do at present; and it would be bad economy to appoint two judges, who would only have to officiate for six weeks in the year, and that too in a particular part of the kingdom. He was anxious that the bill should proceed to a committee.
 Colonel Dawkins  said, that he was not in the House at the time when the hon. member for Westminster (Mr. Hobhouse) had brought forward his charges against the regiment to which he had the honour to belong; but, as they had been again referred to, and as they had already appeared in print, he was anxious to say a word or two regarding them on the present occasion. In the first place, he must inform the House, that in the seven battalions of Foot Guards, corporal punishment was scarcely ever inflicted: and, in the next place, that the regimental returns proved beyond all controversy, that in the last twelve months only one man had been flogged in the King's Mews. What, then, became of the stories which had been industriously circulated, regarding the frequent punishments which took place in those barracks, and which were described as so distressing to the ears and minds of the neighbouring inhabitants? In the battalion of Grenadier Guards which had been stationed there for the last six months, there had been only one instance of corporal punishment; and in the battalion of Coldstream Guards to which he had the honour to belong, and which had been there for the six months previous, there had been no instance of corporal punishment whatever [hear, hear]. With regard to the statement of the hon. member for Aberdeen, that when a soldier was
 930 d d d.
 Colonel Townshend  said, it had been customary formerly, to beat the drum in the morning. But, without any application from the inhabitants, and merely from a spontaneous anxiety for their comfort, for the last six months the  reveille 933
 Mr. Hobhouse  observed, that what he had said on a former night was, that it was represented to him that when corporal punishment was inflicted at the barracks, the drums were beaten to prevent the cries of the sufferer from being heard; On that occasion, a gallant officer had expressed his surprise by gesture, and he (Mr. H.) had said, across the table, "not lately." He had been told, that the noise of drums in the morning alarmed the inhabitants, who thought that they were beaten during the infliction of corporal punishment. Such had been their impression; though, no doubt, from what had been said, they were mistaken. The alarm, however, which had been excited in the neighbourhood of the King's Mews, proved that the place selected for barracks was a very unfit one. On one occasion, most certainly, corporal punishment had taken place. It was seen from the tops of the houses; and the story, greatly exaggerated he supposed, immediately got abroad. The consequence was, that whenever the drums were beaten afterwards, it was supposed that an infliction of corporal punishment was going on, and that the sound of the drums was introduced to prevent the cries of the soldiery from being distinguished. With respect to the observations which had fallen from the noble lord on the subject of the retreat of the French army, he thought the circumstance scarcely justified them. It was, he ought to remember, a beaten army, without stores or provisions, and which was obliged to supply its wants by any means that chanced to present themselves. But, what was the case with the British army in the retreat under sir John Moore?
 935
 Mr. C. Ross  said, that if he thought the bill tended to diminish the legitimate influence possessed by the country gentlemen over the lower classes, he should be one of its warmest opposers; but if it tended, as he believed it would do, to increase that influence, by removing one of the main causes of irritation, it was well worthy the attention of the House. The hon. baronet had inferred, that the Game laws were popular, because there had been no petitions against them: Now this was a most unfounded inference. It was unfortunately true, that the Game laws were very generally obnoxious; and that an habitual violation of the law in the case of poaching, as of smuggling, had ceased to excite moral reprobation. The legislature had had recourse to severe penalties against it; bill after bill had been brought in to prevent game from being sold, but without effect; and the question now was, not whether game should be sold or not, but whether they should legalize and render innoxious that traffic, which they found they could not prevent—whether it was not advisable to authorize that to be done, by law, which was now done in spite of all law? Considerable doubts had been expressed by some gentlemen, as to the correctness of the evidences that had been given before the committee last year, as to the extent of the sale of game; and he confessed that he himself had felt some suspicions as to its accuracy. But he had taken the trouble to examine the books of some of the poulterers, and he found the statements to the fullest extent confirmed. He had extracted from the books of one, by no means of the principal sellers, the numbers of game he had supplied, and the names of the persons to whom they were supplied. He found in one day he had supplied 100 head; in another, 135; in another, 228; in another 101, and so on. The books he had examined were made up previously to the parliamentary inquiry on the subject; so that there was no room
 908 909
 Mr. Sykes  rose to express his strong abhorrence of the practice of military
 928 929
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, he did not think that the right hon. gentleman and his friends on the other side, were aware that his noble friend was in possession of the correspondence; if they were aware of it, he did not think that what had passed that evening would have occurred. It was clear, that there was not a word in the papers which bad been read to the House respecting any conditions or qualifications whatever. Where the right; hon. gentleman obtained his information, it was difficult to ascertain; but did he mean to say that the documents referred to by his noble friend were not correct? Would the government of Ireland consent to bring forward further information? If not, it would show, that there was something to be kept in the back ground, and without the production of which the House ought not to be satisfied. It had never fallen to his lot to bear a more
 899
 Mr. Bennet  said, that a representation similar to that of his hon. friend, the member for Westminster, had been made to him last year.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he must oppose the noble lord's motion, because, although it was only for the production of papers, yet every one must see, that the real object was to censure the Irish government. He
 888 889
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, it was rather unfortunate for the position of the hon. gentleman, that the  reveille
 Sir H. Hardinge  also referred to and denied what the hon. member for Westminster (Mr. Hobhouse) had said, on a former debate on this bill, that the cries of the soldiers flogged in the Mews-barracks had been drowned in the roll of the drums. The fact was, that, during the last year, only one instance of the kind had occurred, and that flogging was abolished in the Guards, excepting under very extraordinary circumstances. With regard to the contemptible charge which had been made upon the officers of the Guards, and that too in no very delicate terms, for the pay of the men was said to have gone into "the pockets of the officers," [hear, hear]—with regard to that contemptible charge, he, too, must be permitted to say a few words. He did not suppose that it had originated with the hon. member for Aberdeen; he had doubtles received it from some slanderous
 931 l s s
 Mr. Abercromby  agreed with the right hon. gentleman, that if the proposition made to the government of Ireland were such as he represented, the government were right in not acceding to it. The only point between them was, that the right hon. gentleman would not give the House the means of judging as to the exact terms of the proposition made. Let the right hon. gentleman, shew the House what the proposition was "No, I will not," said the right hon. gentleman, "but I call on the House to vote in the absence of that evidence." Now, before he could assent to the proposal of the right hon. gentleman, he must have the evidence before him. The application that had been made to government, was, he had reason to believe, without qualification or condition of any kind. The right hon. gentleman shook his head. There was, then a difference between them as to a matter of fact; which was, in his opinion, a reason for producing the evidence, which would put an end to that difference. He knew that his noble friend had seen the correspondence in question; and he was justified in saying that he had seen the answer of Mr. Gregory, the under-secretary; there did not appear on the face of it any condition or qualification. If the government had any other proposition made to them, containing the qualifications and conditions which the right hon. gentleman alleged, certainly they had acted wisely in not conceding any thing. But why not enable the House to form a fair judgment? Where could be the evil of producing the correspondence? Why should the government withhold papers which, according to the right hon. gentleman, would bring the government of Ireland triumphant out of the discussion? There were, in fact, two distinct statements made; the first was made by Mr. Bennett the barrister; the proposition was, after some time repeated, and the reply returned by Mr. Gregory was, that he was still without any authority from the lord lieutenant to return any answer from the government. The proposition, it was clear, did not appear a monstrous
 890
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that if the House allowed the bill to go to a committee, he should supply two omissions, by introducing a clause respecting persons coursing, and another protecting the rights
 903
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  replied. He said, that the object which he had in view in introducing this important measure was, if possible, to satisfy the minds of the majority of the people of England, who saw nothing in the present laws but injustice. Questions of this sort ought always to be considered with reference to some general principle; and, if game must belong to some one, reasoning from analogy, in whom ought that right of property to be vested? As the law now stood, the right of property was given to those who had no power over the land in which the game might happen to be. It had been said, that this right should belong to the lord of the manor; but this bill would regulate the matter in what he considered the fair and ordinary course, for it would confer the right of game on those who held possession of the land on which the game was found; and he thought that when a man disposed of his land, the regulation of the right of game was a fair matter of bargain between the owner and the occupier of the land. It had been urged, amongst other things, that he would endanger his popularity with his constituents, by the introduction of this measure. On that subject, he could only say, that he had too good an opinion of the understandings of his constituents, to suppose that this bill would render him unpopular amongst them. If he should incur unpopularity he should certainly lament it; but his rule of conduct in that House, and elsewhere, had been, to do what he conceived to be his duty, and trust to the consequences. But, in fact, what was it he proposed to do? It was to give to every man in England, no matter how humble his condition, the right of shooting, wherever he was allowed. It had been objected to him, that he would take away vested rights; and an hon. friend had complained of the hardship of not extending qualifi-
 924 925 926
 Mr. Allen  described the proposed measure as being trifling in its remedy, and likely to be most pernicious in its effects. The defect of the existing system was, that it was opposed to the due administration of justice. The evil of the present jurisdiction arose from the extraordinary number of the Welsh judges, and the want of employment for them. He had a strong objection to the intermediate employment of the Welsh judges as counsel, and to their liability to form personal connexions, as agents to noblemen and others, which must derogate from the dignity of the judicial situation. He also thought, that so far as property was concerned, one great evil was, the difficulty of procuring special juries, a privilege only to be obtained by motion in open court, and then, when the assizes in some places lasted only two days, it was impossible to summon the special jurors within the time required by the law. The hon. and learned member entered into a technical statement of the different duties that attached to the judges in the principality of Wales, as at present constituted. He said, he should recommend that the courts of Westminster-hall should be thrown open to Wales, as it was to the people of England, and that the decisions of the courts of the principal^ should be open to revision. He would get rid altogether of those vagrant courts of chancery, which were only employed in injunctions and discoveries,
 927
 Mr. Benett , of Wilts, said, he was so disgusted with the present state of the laws respecting game, that he Was prepared to consent to any change, conceiving that it must be one for the better. No man in England was fonder than he was of country amusements, and of foxhunting in particular; and, if he thought that the bill would have the effect of abolishing that sport, he would most stre-
 920
 Mr. Jones  defended the principle of the bill, and contended, that its provisions would be extremely salutary. He maintained that the courts of chancery in Wales, instead of being an evil, were the best part of the local jurisdiction. There was not a single county in Wales in favour of the abolition.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, that when it was asserted that the Game laws were unpopular, he should like to know with what class they were unpopular; for certain he was, that he had heard more said against them in that House than he had in any other place. They were unpopular with the poachers, and never would be otherwise; but with other classes they were far from being unpopular. The bill before them was, they were told, to unite all classes of the people. He should be glad to know how this could be; for he never saw a bill more calculated to be unpopular, one that more rashly took away existing rights—or supported its provisions by more tyrannical and unconstitutional means. In the first place, without discussing the principle of making game property, or legalising the sale of it—he might observe that the first enactment of the bill was, to sweep away all qualifications at a blow. There had been objections to the principle of qualification; but, he did not hold vested rights in general, or qua-
 910 911 912 arrondissement communis juris
 Mr. J. Smith  deprecated the attachment to cruel punishments which prevailed in this country. If they turned their eyes towards France, they would find thirty millions of people governed by law, without any flogging, torture, or personal suffering, except the brand on the shoulder. As they went through the streets of Paris, they might see men undergoing the operation of being branded, without any manifestation of pain; the mark being made, he believed, with some sort of corrosive liquid. It was certainly in our power to improve our own system
 932
 Mr. J. Smith  knew nothing of the facts-. He only stated what he believed his hen. friend had said.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the diminution in the number of military floggings was not so much owing to the regulations of the duke of York, as to the exertions of his honourable friend the member for Westminster (sir Francis Burdett). It appeared to him to be a contradiction in terms, to congratulate the country on the diminution of corporal punishments in the army, and yet to say, that the army could not exist in a state of discipline without it. With regard to the pay of the soldiers under punishment, he would merely ask one question. Was it, or was it not paid into the stock-purse of the regiment? The noble lord opposite had said, that it was so paid; if it was not, he (Mr. H.) was not to blame for the mistake which he had committed.
 Mr. R. Martin  defended the vote he had given on a former night, in favour of the bill, as it stood. It was admitted on all sides, that the practice of flogging was very much diminished. This was owing to the exertions of the commander-in-chief, who had always expressed it as his opinion, that when the custom of inflicting corporal punishment prevailed to any great extent in a regiment, the discipline of that regiment must be bad. He would not vote for taking away the power of inflicting that species of punishment where it appeared to be necessary. He thought it was much better to leave the business in the hands of the commander-in-chief, who would deal with it as his kindness and humanity dictated.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that a proclamation of amnesty was distributed in his county, at the Catholic chapels by the Catholic clergymen. He could not agree to the motion, because he did not see that it would be productive of any good. Even taking the statement of the noble lord for granted, there was no ground for laying the correspondence on the table.
 Mr. Peel. —Doubtless that was ample reason for the noble lord's not stating any thing about it to the House; but it was an equally ample reason for his (Mr. P's.) now bringing it to their notice. Mr. Luke Plunkett, on the 24th of February, stated, "that he had made it his business to see Hughes in gaol, after he had been convicted; that he saw him in the presence of the gaoler; and that he undertook to hold out some hopes of mercy to him on the part of government, if he would become the instrument of his associates giving up their arms; or, if not of giving up their arms, of inducing the leaders to come forward and submit," In
 901 902
 Mr. W. Peel  rose to second the amendment, and expressed his opinion, that the making game private property was fraught with many difficulties. He was surprised that his hon. friend, the member for Yorkshire, who was so little of a reformer in general, should have disposed in so radical a manner of the Game laws, by a bill which would annihilate all the Game laws in the country. Some gentlemen were so sanguine as to suppose that this bill would
 906 907
 Sir C. Cole  approved highly of part of the bill, but thought that the principle of it was not carried far enough. The same reasons which were deemed sufficient to disqualify the judges of England from sitting and voting in that House, surely ought to be sufficient to disqualify the judges of Wales also. If any member would move a clause disqualifying the Welsh judges from sitting in that House, he would give it his cordial support.
 Sir John Shelley  rose to give this measure his decided opposition. There were, he said, only two good grounds that could be assigned for repealing the old law, and substituting another in its place: it must be shown, either that the existing law was unjust and oppressive, or that it was inefficient For the purposes with which it had been enacted. Now, no one could deny that whenever any evils arose in the nation, whether real or imaginary, the right of petitioning parliament for a remedy was always resorted to. Had not the table of that House, for instance, groaned, session after session, beneath petitions for reform—petitions for relief from agricultural distress—petitions for remission of taxation, and a hundred other objects? But, inasmuch as, within his own knowledge, there had not been one single petition presented to that House against the existing Game laws, he was justified in assuming that those laws were not oppressive. It had been said, that this was a modified measure; but, let honourable gentlemen be assured, that if the barrier that now subsisted were once passed, it would be utterly impossible for them ever to return to the point from whence they had set out. Another bill after this, and another still stronger, would, in successive sessions of parliament, be introduced; until, at length, all restrictions would be done away with. He must be allowed very much to doubt, whether either his hon. friend (Mr. S. Wortley), or those other hon. members who were among the zealous supporters of this new measure, would be prepared to go this length. A law must be bad that was founded, as this would be, upon partial, or upon impracticable principles. An act of parliament might be passed for the general preservation of the game throughout the kingdom; but, how could it be possible to pass a law, intended to give a property in an animal which, by nature, defied all human control, and could never in that sense become property? He maintained, that they might as well bring in a law to limit and regulate the migration of woodcocks as one that should establish a right of property in the birds themselves. What property could there be in that which in the space of twelve hours might change its habitation four-and-twenty times? His hon. friend wished to assimilate the Game
 904 905
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he was not prepared to go to the whole extent of the bill; but, at all events, it was clear to him it would have the effect of doing that which had excited so much attention; namely, to diminish poaching; and would besides put the system upon something of an intelligible footing. It was obvious, that the amazing increase of game in this country, had increased the practice of poaching; and it was equally clear, that there must have been an increased demand for the article, or there would not have been such an increased supply. And, did not daily experience prove, that when a commodity of any description could be had by fair and honest means, it would find a much more ready and steady market? The receiver of stolen goods was not the first person to whom a purchaser would resort for any article he might require; but, if he was prevented by law from purchasing the article, then, as in the case of game, he would go to a person of that description. The article would not fail to reach those who had money to purchase it, and it was absurd to think of preventing it by legislative enactments. It had been stated by the hon. member for Oxford, that it was a peculiar hardship not to extend the right of qualification to lawyers, divines, and the heads of corporations. But, by this bill, the House gave them a great deal more; for they gave the learned doctors, both of law and divinity, as well as the right worshipful mayors of corporations, the power of eating that lawfully, which before was illegal diet; and, in his judgment, the lawyers, and doctors, and heads of corporations, would be much better pleased at receiving the privilege of eating game than of shooting it according to law [a laugh]. By legalising the sale of game, poaching would lose much of its inducement; and although he would not say it would destroy it in the first or second year, still, in that space of time, it would, he was convinced, considerably diminish the practice; and, by so doing, the House would remove a most disgraceful statute, and destroy a most prolific source of immorality. An hon. gentleman had asked, by whom were the Game laws called unpopular? He would ask in return, by whom were they styled
 923
 Sir A. Hope  did not understand his noble friend to say, that the use of the lash was necessary. He had merely argued, that it was proper, for the discipline of the army, that the power of inflicting punishment should exist.
 Lord Althorp. —I have never seen it.
 Lord Althorp  rose to reply. He said, that a copy of the correspondence in question had certainly been put into his hands. In that correspondence he saw no condition, no qualification whatever;
 894 "Sir; I have a communication to make for the information of his excellency the lord lieutenant, relative to the illegal society of persons styling themselves Ribbon-men, of the county and city of Dublin. Do me the honour to acquaint me when and to whom this communication is to be made I have &c. "R. N. BENNETT." "Sir; I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 18th instant, which has been submitted to the Lord Lieutenant; and I am directed to acquaint you, that if you wilt be so good to commit to writing any communication on the subject to which you allude, and transmit it to me, it shall be immediately brought under his Excellency's consideration, I have, &c. "W. GREGORY." "Sir; I have the honour to acknowledge your letter of the 18th instant, requiring me to commit to writing the communication to which I alluded in that letter, and which I had to make on behalf of the Ribbon-men of the county and city of Dublin.—Having frequently been employed for them as counsel, I made use of the opportunities thus afforded me, to endeavour to ascertain the real objects of that society. I was assured, that the principle of their union was wholly defensive against the Orange party. They informed me, that the Ribbon system commenced in Armagh, where outrages of a very sanguinary character were alleged to have been committed against the Catholics, by the
 895 896 "R. N. B." "My dear Sir; a number of persons from different parts of the country, in addition to those we mentioned to you, have called on us to know what has been done relative to the proposition you made to Mr. Gregory, last week? We beg leave to state, that they are most anxious to carry that proposition into effect. We request that you will endeavour to obtain the answer of Government as soon as possible. With best wishes, yours, &c. "A. LUBE. W. GORE." "February 28, 1823. "Sir,—Not having had the honour of receiving any answer to my communication of the 24th [this should have been 22] inst. relative to the Ribbon-men, and great anxiety having been expressed by these people for the determination of Government thereon, I think it my duty to call your attention to the inclosed letter from the clergymen to whom I before alluded. "R. N. B." "To W. Gregory, Esq. &c." "Dublin Castle, March 3, 1823. "Sir,—I submitted your letters of the 24th and 28th ult, relative to the Ribbon-men, to the lord lieutenant, and whenever I receive his excellency's commands, I shall not fail to communicate them to you.—I have the honour &c. "W. GREGORY." "To R. N. Bennett, Esq. &c. &c." "March, 1823. "May it please your excellency from the moment that counsellor Bennett communicated to us the gratifying hope that it might meet your Excellency's benevolent views to extend your mercy, and bring under our most gracious sovereign's
 897 "A. LUBIE. W. GORE. "To his Excellency, &c. &c. &c." July 16, 1823. "Sir—On the 24th (22nd), and 28th February last, I had the honour of submitting through you a communication to the lord lieutenant, from the Ribbon-men, and on the 3rd of March you informed me that whenever you received his Excellency's commands on this subject, you would communicate them to me. Having received no answer after such a lapse of time, I am apprehensive that this matter (under the pressure of important affairs) may have escaped his Excellency's recollection; I therefore beg leave to request you will call the lord lieutenant's attention to the subject, and acquaint me whether it is the pleasure of government to give any answer to the application of the Ribbon-men. Though they were ex-
 898 "R. N. BENNETT. "To Wm. Gregory, esq." "Dublin Castle, July 22, 1823. "Sir;—I submitted your letter of the 16th instant to the lord lieutenant, and have not any commands from his Excellency to return an answer. I have, &c. "W. GREGORY. "R. N. Bennett, esq."
 Lord Althorp  rose to submit to the House the motion of which he had given notice. If he succeeded in the attainment of his object, it would, he said, enable the House to determine what measures would be the most likely to restore quiet to that disturbed country. It would be recollected that the tumult which prevailed in 1820 had broke out in Galway, and had speedily extended itself through Mayo. The disturbances were attributable to what was called the system of Ribbon-men. They ran so high, that an hon. friend of his, the member for Galway, had found it necessary to move himself for the renewal of the insurrection act, and that the powers of the act should be extended to that county. The consequences were, numerous trials and convictions, with some executions.
 886 887
 Lord Milton  said, that the hon. member who had just sat down had expressed his disgust with the present system of the Game laws to be so strong, that any change must be an improvement. Now, he apprehended, that the general cause of that disgust arose from the enormous quantity of crime which they engendered. The great object of the House should be to diminish crime; and to this purpose all other considerations should yield. He thought the hon. baronet, the member for Lewes, attached too much importance to other considerations, such as the inducements to country gentlemen to reside on their estates. He was one of those who doubted very much whether those gentlemen were the most serviceable in their respective neighbourhoods, whose chief occupation and pleasure consisted in shoot-
 921 922
 Lord Palmerston  said, that his sentiments had been mistaken on one or two points. He was supposed to have said, that this privilege of flogging was a necessary prerogative of the Crown. He had not made any such observation. His position was, that the legislature had recognized the king as the head of the army and navy; that to him was intrusted the sole command and government of the forces by sea and land; and that therefore it rested with the Crown to determine by what code of laws those bodies could be best governed. The hon. member for Nottingham had argued, that corporal punishment was peculiarly unfit for persons reared in the manufacturing districts, because in general they had received some degree of education: but it should be observed, that where large masses of people were collected together in the manufacturing districts, they had not the same simplicity and innocence of manners, which distinguished the agricultural part of the population; and that therefore punishment was more likely to be deserved by the former than by the latter class. He knew that the best proof of the good order and discipline of a regiment was to be found in the infrequency of corporal punishment. Let it, however, be recollected, that he had never contended for frequency of punishment, but had merely argued for the propriety of asserting the power. Much praise had been bestowed on the French army, which, it
 934
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he rose to present a Petition from the inhabitants of the city of Westminster, on a subject of vital importance to the prosperity and eventual power of this country. These petitioners alleged, that they found from statements made in that House by the ministers of the Crown, that there remained, after meeting the wasteful expenditure of 1823, a surplus revenue of nearly seven millions. Now, the great proportion of that surplus was appropriated to that most fallacious and ruinous project the sinking fund—if fund at all was not a most improper application of the term. In place of relieving or upholding the public resources, its immediate tendency was, to depress the spirits and property of the country at large. Let it not, however, be presumed, that it operated, in any manner, to increase the public strength. That money taken out in taxes from the capital of the nation would, if left in the pockets of this industrious and enterprising people, increase in a manifold degree. These petitioners feared and they feared justly, that this unnatural and unnecessary demand on the people, instead of enabling us, in the event of war, to meet the emergency, would exhaust
 937 l 938
 Mr. Robertson  expressed his utter dissent from the opinions of the petitioners, and of the hon. gentleman, respecting the sinking fund. Under what more favourable circumstances could parliament expect to commence the reduction of the national debt than those at present existing? Were they to go on interminably without making any attempt at its diminution? The sinking fund, he was persuaded, was in the highest degree beneficial to the country and was the main cause of all the commercial activity from which such advantages might justly be anticipated. Were parliament to consent to the abolition of this fund, they would show themselves utterly unworthy of the confidence of the country.
 Mr. Hobhouse , on moving that the petition be printed, observed, that he had had the petition three nights in his hand, but had not seen any of his majesty's ministers in the House before five o'clock, the hour by which petitions must be presented. He certainly agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, on the importance of the petition, relating, as it did, to the remission of taxation. Since he had made his motion, for the repeal of the window-tax, he had received numerous letters pressing the necessity of urging it.
 943 l l
 Mr. Brownlow  hoped that the chancellor of the Exchequer would consider the expediency of delaying the repeal of the linen bounties until the month of July, 1825.
 Mr. Maberly  could assure the right hon. gentleman opposite, that owing to the circumstance of his not having duly considered the propriety and expediency of repealing the bounties upon the linen trade before he had come down to the House the other evening with his proposition upon that subject, he had occasioned, in some parts of the kingdom, very great inconvenience and distress. He had no hesitation in saying, that in consequence of the right hon. gentleman's exposition of his plan for rescinding the bounties allowed upon Irish linensr—which bounties upon the low-priced linens amounted to 20 per cent OH the value—upwards of 40,000 hands had been suddenly thrown out of employ. He mentioned this fact only to show the chancellor of the Exche-
 944 s
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, there could be no objection to grant the returns which had been moved for, but he had really no idea that any such motion was to be made, and had still less anticipated the discussion it had occasioned. If the right hon. gentleman wished him to give any answer to his observations upon the proposed alteration respecting the linen bounties, he would observe that that answer would most properly be given in the committee; in which those hon. gentlemen who were not satisfied with the intended arrangements would be enabled to state the grounds of their dissent. For himself, he would confess, that at present he was hardly prepared to go into the subject.
 Colonel Davies  said, that it might be convenient, if he brought forward his amendment, to alter the duty on Foreign Brandy and Spirits, in the first instance. It affected a large portion of the population, and he felt satisfied, that if the imposts were considerably lowered, the revenue arising from them would be so
 946 l 947 s d l s d l s d l s d l l l l l l 948 l s d l s d l s d l s d l l l l s d
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it seemed to him, that the hon. member did not clearly understand the nature of the bill before the House. It was a bill to renew an act which would expire on the 24th of March, which act was a continuation of another, granting certain duties for one year. The duties now in question were increased in 1807, as war duties. They had been modified in 1815, and since then had been continued from year to year. The present bill did not specific the amount of the duties; it only went to continue the original act, in which they were detailed. He did not see, therefore, how the hon. member's object could be answered, by moving for the reduction of a specific duty, when the amount of that duty was not mentioned in the body of the bill to which his motion was to be an amendment. The best way in which the hon. member could shape his motion would be, to call upon the House for the repeal of so much of the duty permanently. It was this feeling which, on a former evening had made him suggest that a similar mode should be pursued with respect to the duties on rum. It appeared to him, that it would be very difficult for the hon. member to accomplish his object in the way he proposed; and he did not see how he could assist hiin.—He would now say a word or two on the motion itself. He admitted that the duty on foreign spirits was very high; but he thought the present time was not the proper one for making any deduction in them, for such reduction must operate to the prejudice of the manufacturers of British spirit. It might, perhaps, be said, that it would be well to make a reduction in the duties on British spirits also. Perhaps it might be so; but that, it would not be denied, was a great question: and it would not be wise to go into it now, until we had seen the effect of the reductions which had been made in the duty on spirits in Ireland and Scotland. No man, he thought, would deny that it was desirable to have the duties on ardent spirits as high as they could be safely collected. In a moral point of view, there were questions connected with it, into which he would not then enter, but the discussion of which would show the dangerous effects of too free an access to the use of ardent spirits among the people. Besides, the loss to the revenue, from both reductions, would be more than could at present be spared. The hon. member had said,
 950 s d
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  certainly considered the subject to which the petition pointed, as well deserving that serious attention which he for one was disposed to give to it.
 Colonel Davies  denied that the British distillers would be endangered by the moderate reduction which he had proposed on foreign spirits. The question, as it regarded the morals of the people, had been ably argued by his hon. friend. He did not believe that one gallon more of spirits would be drunk in consequence of the reduction of duties. As to the observation of the chancellor of the Exchequer, that his proposition did not go far enough, he should be perfectly ready to agree to any further reduction to which the right hon. gentleman might be disposed to consent. As his object in bringing forward this motion was to promote the discussion of the question, and that object had, to a certain extent, been attained, he should not press his amendment to a division.
 Mr. Kennedy  bore testimony to the value of the measure which had been acceded to last session by the chancellor of the Exchequer, and expressed a hope that the right hon. gentleman would, as soon as possible, extend its benefits to the whole empire. He wished to say a few words with respect to the monopoly of distillation in Scotland. There were only five distilleries at work in Scotland for the whole English market. This was a monopoly of a most injurious kind. He would state a single fact to show the inordinate extent to which it was carried. One large set of works was now idle, and the owners of those works had received 15,000 l
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, that if the hon. member would refer to the correspondence which had taken place between lord Bathurst and the principal civil colonial officers which had been printed and laid upon the table of the House in March, 1821, he would there find a statement of the reasons which had induced ministers to call upon the House for the present grant. Ministers did not possess the power of compelling the House of assembly of Dominica to pay the salary of the chief justice.
 Mr. W. Horton  said, that the government would have taken a very serious responsibility on themselves, if they had deprived this colony of the services of the chief justice. There were many considerations which rendered those services necessary in the highest degree. In many cases it became the duty of government to attempt to force a civil establishment on colonies, to which the colonists had no disposition. He trusted, however, that ere long, the colony in question would be able to pay this small sum.
 Colonel Davies  objected to the general impolicy of our colonial system, and complained, that appointments in the colonies were made the objects of patronage.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that by far the greater portion of the West-India Islands did pay the whole expenses of their civil establishment, but the island of Dominica was, and always had been, one of the most distressed spots in the West Indies. It had suffered repeatedly from violent hurricanes, which had destroyed the whole annual produce of the island. Many parts of it were so sterile as scarcely to repay the labour of cultivation. Under these circumstances, though undoubtedly the propriety of the general rule, that the colonies should pay for their own civil establishments, could not be denied, yet, in the case of this small island, which had a difficulty in
 955
 Mr. Lushington  next moved, "That 8,229 l l
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, that the hon. gentleman rested his opposition to this vote upon the ground, that the people of
 957 l l 958
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, that the hon. member seemed to have forgotten one very essential circumstance; namely, the war in Canada, and the militia pensions which it necessarily created. Was it not fair and just that this country should continue to defray these expenses for some time longer? He was confident that in the course of a very few years, this country would be relieved from the necessity of defraying the expenses of Upper Canada, as the resources of that country were rapidly increasing.
 Dr. Lushington  said, he could not support his hon. friend, and was therefore anxious to say a few words to explain the reasons which induced him to vote against those with whom he generally acted. You cannot lay down a principle by which you can regulate, whether colonies should be compelled to maintain themselves, or should receive assistance from the mother country. If this country had been too extravagant in her colonial expenditure—a proposition which he was disposed to admit—that was not the place to examine the subject. The expenses could only be examined by a committee up stairs; with any hope at least of arriving at a
 961
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  thought the committee was not a proper place to discuss the question, as to the utility of the establishment at Sierra Leone. That was a question of wide import, and was to be considered not merely in a commercial point of view, but in its tendency, as an experiment to promote the civilization of Africa. The House was called on to vote this sum as a consequence of a certain system, and the hon. member might, if he pleased, bring that system under discussion; but this was not the proper time for so doing.
 Mr. Gordon  observed, that in the year 1817 a committee had examined into the state of these settlements, which at that time were under the management of the African Company. Now, as that company had been established for the better promotion of the slave trade, it became matter of consideration with the committee, whether these settlements ought not to be abandoned, seeing that the objects for which they were established had been declared illegal by the legislature. It was, however, determined that they should be kept up, for two reasons; first, because they were calculated to promote com-
 963
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  observed, that these objects still attracted the notice of government. He had no hesitation in saying, that, notwithstanding the Ashantee war, the natives in the neighbourhood of these settlements were in a state of slow but progressive improvement. He looked upon these settlements as experiments on a great scale, which ought to be judged of rather by their ultimate results than by their immediate progress from year to year.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  observed, that the hon. member seemed to be confounding the private secretaries of the governors with the public secretaries of the island. The latter functionaries did, it was true, receive fees; but the former received none, their emoluments being confined to the sum of 10 s
 Mr. W. Horton  said, that looking to the series of years during which this society had performed the duty which was contemplated by this grant, he thought they might safely be intrusted with its performance at present. But, admitting, for argument's sake, that the society were not proper persons to dispose of the bounty of parliament, would they, therefore, withhold this sum altogether? Did they not know that it was absolutely necessary for those provinces? It was true the
 966
 Mr. C. Wilson  supported the resolution.
 Mr. W. Horton  said, that the money was appropriated to the support of the protestant religion only.
 Sir Scrope Morland  also defended the grant.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, it no doubt was very proper that those individuals should receive religious instruction; but the question was, who were to pay for it, the people of England, whose advantage must be contingent, or the inhabitants of the colonies, who received the immediate benefit of religious instructions? Another ques-
 967
 Mr. Grey Bennet  then moved an amendment, which went to place the grant at the disposal of the governors of the colonies.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  observed, that his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) and his private secretary had rendered more service to the public than all the public men with all their private secretaries under the pay of government. He hoped his hon. friend would take the sense of the House on the question.
 Mr. Bennet  suggested to his hon. friend, the propriety of withdrawing for the present his opposition to the vote.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, it would be well for the House to examine the system that was acted upon in the settlements of the United States of America. They defrayed the expenses of their own establishments, and all that his hon. friend had proposed was, that the people of Canada should follow the example of their neighbours, and consent to pay for the protection of those laws which they enjoyed. They should at least pay, as their neighbours paid, for a government which was respected and beloved by the people. For a good and sound government, such as their neighbours had the happiness to enjoy, they would most cheerfully contribute. But when they saw the enormous church establishment, which they were called upon to support; when they saw the great anxiety which prevailed to introduce into the new world all the fol-
 959
 Mr. Bennet  said, that if the colony did not choose to pay for their chief justice, they ought to go without one. He believed the ground taken by the colonists,
 954 l
 Mr. Bennet  trusted, that ere long the right hon. gentleman would remove the evils arising from the anomaly of one system of laws being acted upon in Scotland and Ireland, and another in this country. With respect to the moral effect of the measure, he was satisfied that taxation was a principal cause of the abuse of ardent spirits. In wine countries it was generally observed, that there was no abuse in the consumption of wine; but, in those countries where the governments, by a system of taxation, rendered wine or spirits difficult to be obtained by the consumer, abuses of these commodities universally arose. He denied, in toto, that the reduction of the
 953
 Mr. Bright  said, he approved of the vote, and was of opinion, that the colony ought to be encouraged, since it might become, in our possession, a counterpoise to the power of the United States. With respect to the sale of lands he did not know that any revenue derived from such a source would go into the pockets of the people. He took it that the proceeds would go to the Crown, and not be disposable by parliament. But, without entering into that question at present, suffice it to say, that it was clearly the policy of this country to advance money at present to the support of this colony.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, it was absolutely necessary for every governor of a West-India island to have a private secretary. Their emoluments were barely sufficient to support the rank and station which they were called upon to fill; and, as that
 964
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that if the hon. member supposed that the whole of the religious establishment of those colonies was supported out of this grant, he was much mistaken. In Canada, tracts of barren land were set apart for the support of the clergy [a laugh]. The country, it should be observed, improved by cultivation, and as fast as those lands became available, they afforded moderate incomes to the clergy, in addition to what they obtained from parliament. But even if the colony made no effort itself, still he contended it was the duty of the mother country to appropriate funds for the purpose of promoting the happiness of the people; which could only be done through the medium of religious instruction. The hon. member for Aberdeen had remarked on the small sum subscribed for this purpose by the great dignitaries of the church; but he should recollect, that those who contributed to this society contributed also to many other most useful institutions. It might as well be said, when the hon. member gave sixpence to a beggar in the street, that his charity extended no further, as that the charity of those reverend persons was confined alone to this
 968
 Mr. Irving  thought that no subject could be taken into consideration the result of which would be more likely to prove beneficial to Ireland, than the propriety of making an alteration in the laws affecting bankers in that country.
 Mr. Monck  looked upon this grant as a great waste of public money. The great majority of the people of Canada, he had always understood, were Roman catholics; and here they were called upon to give a large sum of money to a sect greatly inferior in numbers. The catholics maintained their clergy, and he could see no reason why the protestants should not do the same.
 Mr. John Smith  said, it was undoubtedly true, as stated in the petition, that this country paid above three millions in taxes to carry on the government of Ireland; and it was equally true, that the people of Ireland were incapable of paying that sum for themselves. It appeared to him, therefore, to be incumbent on parliament to inquire into the cause of so extraordinary a circumstance. So long as the present difference of opinion on matters of religion existed in that country, and the consequent disturbances were to be apprehended, people who had capital, which they might and which they would advantageously employ in Ireland, were deterred from making any such experiment. It was his sincere opinion, that until that House adopted measures cal-
 940
 Mr. Butterworth  said, that his observation as to irregularities was not meant to be general. Many of the most honourable characters were connected with that most useful body.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, he had only alluded to some irregularities into which he wished inquiry to be made. With respect to the missionaries, he did not believe that they would be found, when the matter was investigated, to have been inculcating those fanatical and dangerous doctrines to which the hon. baronet seemed to allude. He held in his hand a copy of the resolutions of the hon. baronet's constituents at Newcastle, which showed what they thought on the subject [Cries of "read, read"]. He would not read them in that irregular way, but he would hand them to the hon. baronet.
 Mr. Butterworth  supported the motion. The grant had heretofore done much good, and it would have a mischievous effect if it were now withheld. With respect to the society for the propagation of the gospel, its labours had been beneficial. It was true that it had been exposed to some atrocious impostures, which ought to be inquired into; but, of its general utility, no doubt could be entertained. The grant, in his opinion, ought, if altered at all, to be increased.
 Mr. Hume  said, the country, it appeared, was, in addition to the civil and military establishment of those colonies, to support the ecclesiastical establishment. He wondered they were not called on to pay every medical gentleman who proceeded there. Doubtless, their skill would be as beneficial to the bodies of the inhabitants, as the exertions of the clergy were to their souls. Why should not those individuals pay for an establishment, from which themselves alone derived benefit? And they would do so, if these improvident grants were not made. He observed, that a rev. Dr. Inglis, who officiated at Halifax, a large flourishing town, received 400 l l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, what he complained of was, that the governors of the colonies did not call on the houses of assembly to pay their private secretaries if they wanted them. He did not see why Barbadoes, St. Kitt's, and other places, should call upon this country to support private secretaries for them, when New South Wales had hitherto done without one. He concluded with moving, "That the grant should be reduced to 620 l
 Mr. Hume  rose to object to this money being placed in the hands of this society. Fie had on a former occasion stated two instances of its neglect and misconduct, and he could not but feel strong surprise at hearing it again proposed to intrust so large a sum to its control. In a published account of its expenditure, it was stated, that the managers of the society had given 50 l 965 l l
 Mr. Hume  thought that the explanation of the hon. secretary was any thing but satisfactory.
 Mr. Hume  said, his hon. and learned friend seemed to suppose, that he wished to deprive the colony of Upper Canada of justice. Now, such was not his intention; but his object was, to make them shake off those officers whose services were not required, in order to enable them to main-
 962
 Mr. Hume  rose, to ask if any certain information could be obtained respecting this colony. There were various reports in circulation as to its utility. He should like to know what benefit the country derived from the establishment? He had heard that the loss of lives in it was very considerable, and the expense, the House saw, was great.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he had expected never to have heard of this grant again. With regard to the salaries paid to the private secretaries of the governors of Barbadoes, and the other West-India islands, amounting altogether to 1,822 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that that was the most objectionable part of the grant. Why were the catholics of Ireland and the dissenters to be taxed for the benefit of another sect?
 Mr. Hume  said, that on the chancellor of the Exchequer's own principle, he ought to go further than he now professed himself willing to go. He had already made a reduction of three shillings per gallon on Scotch spirits, and a reduction also upon Irish spirits; and, as far as the result of that measure was already ascertained, it was found to be most favourable to the revenue. The amount of revenue derived from it was, in the last quarter, 50,000 l 951 952
 Mr. Hume  said, he could not conceive that the hon. gentleman had correctly heard the object of the petition. Whatever the hon. gentleman might think of the sinking fund, he would assert, and when the time came, if the hon. gentle-
 939
 Mr. Hume  said, that if so great an improvement was going forward in this colony as had been stated, surely they would not require so large a sum to defray the expenses of their establishments. He was of opinion, that the best policy which this country could pursue with regard to the Canadas, would be, to render them independent at the end of ten years, by which we should be relieved from a large annual expense, and avoid the probability of being drawn into a war with the United
 960
 Mr. Hume  said, that Upper Canada was only separated by an ideal line from the colonies of the United States, which not only paid the whole expenses of their civil, but their military establishments. It was extremely unfair and unjust, that the people of England should be called upon to pay the expenses of the civil as well as the military establishments of her colonies. Before the people of England were taxed, for the purpose of maintaining a civil establishment in Upper Canada, it was fitting that at least they should know of what that establishment consisted. It appeared to him a most improper appropriation of the public money. The people of Canada should provide for their own establishments. If all the officers who were kept there were useful, let their maintenance be provided for by the legislative assembly; but if, as he believed, they were considered unnecessary, why then let them at once be discharged. But, he believed, the people of Canada would throw upon the shoulders of the people of England, all these burthens (and naturally enough too), if the people of England were weak enough to submit to it. For instance, here we find two she riffs. Now what had we to do with these sheriffs? Why should we pay the sheriffs of Canada for duties performed there? He should be glad to know, whether they received no fees. If he were rightly informed, they had a very
 956 l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he would not divide the committee on the question; but he would do so next year, if the vote should be then proposed.
 Mr. Hume  said, he could not understand why She island of Dominica should not pay its own chief justice; for the 600 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that the importance of the duties which the chief justice had to perform was no reason why the people of England should be called upon to pay for his services. If they were important, they were worth paying for by the colonists; and if they were not worth paying for by the colonists, that was a reason why the people of England should not be called upon to pay for them. The charges for the colonies, to be just, ought to be equal. There was no chief justice at St. Lucie or Jamaica; no civil establishment was paid for in those islands. The principle of taxing the people of England for the civil establishment of the colonies was so unjustifiable, that he would take the sense of the committee on the subject.
 Mr. T. Wilson  defended the propriety of the grant, and approved of its being placed under the control of the Society.
 Sir H. Parnell  rose to present a petition, signed by several wealthy and respectable merchants and
 945
 Sir. M. W. Ridley  said, that the observation he had made, had been entirely misunderstood by the hon. gentleman. He had seen those resolutions; but as they proceeded from a very small portion of his constituents, and were couched in such language as could reflect little credit on any body, he did not think it necessary to read them. He trusted he had too much taste to touch the question of the missionaries as connected with the West Indies. He would not say a word on this latter subject at present; but, whenever it should come under the consideration of the House, he should be prepared to express his honest opinion upon it.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  inquired whether this money was appropriated under the superintendence of the colonial government to the support of the protestant religion, or whether it was distributed amongst those fanatics whose wild doctrines were calculated to do so much mischief.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he should be extremely sorry if any one could for a moment suppose, that the circumstance of Ireland not paying the whole expense of her government arose from any other cause than her inability to pay it. Additional taxes had frequently been imposed on the people of that country, but they had as frequently failed. Indeed, it appeared that the greater the number and amount of the taxes the less was the produce of the revenue. From the year 1807, to the year 1816, different finance ministers had imposed new taxes, amounting nominally to four millions; yet, the fact was, that at the end of that period the produce of the revenue was actually half a million less than at the beginning. It was impossible, indeed, that any fiscal measure in Ireland could be immediately productive. The state in which Ireland was, had not grown out of the occurrences of the last thirty or forty years. It was the result of centuries of misgovernment. It was impossible, therefore, that evils of such long standing could be suddenly remedied. If the present were the last words he should ever speak, he would state, that there would be no peace for Ireland—no happiness for the empire—until religious opinions were put on an equality, by doing what he had again and again and again stated must be done; namely, rendering persons of every religious persuasion in that country eligible to share in all its civil rights. He did not mean to say that any particular class should be preferred, but that all classes should be rendered eligible, and that thus
 941
 Sir J. Newport  thought that the House might not be aware of the nature of that act; for it was an Irish one, passed before the statute known as the "Bankers' act." The consequence of this was, that two distinct codes prevailed in one kingdom, in respect of bankers. He need only mention one clause of the act of George 2nd. to show how necessary was the revision of the law upon this subject. It was enacted, that no person intending to trade as a banker should be enabled to make any settlement upon his son or his daughter, his grandson, or his grand daughter, even for a valuable consideration; but that all such settlements should be absolutely null and void.
 Sir T. D. Acland  defended the society. It had, he said, been a chartered society ever since 1711, and certainly was not established in times which were least favourable to religious feeling. If the committee refused this vote, they would be guilty of two kinds of injustice. They would do injustice to a respectable society long existing in the country, not only without reproach, but which parliament had sanctioned from year to year, and the abuses of which, if any existed, ought to be made the subject of investigation in another manner, and not in the way recommended by the hon. members for Aberdeen and Dover, whom he advised to exercise their united efforts in behalf of the religion of their country, by preferring a regular and distinct motion, embracing the charges to which they fancied the society liable. They would be also guilty of another injustice: an injustice to those meritorious individuals who were doing the work of religion and the church on the other side of the Atlantic, in the full confidence, that the support which they had hitherto received from parlia-
 969
 Lord Althorp  said, that although he should certainly prefer seeing the grant in the hands of responsible persons, he should be very unwilling to refuse his assent to the vote altogether. If he must, therefore, come to the question, aye or no, he would certainly say that it was better the money should be in the hands of the society, than that it should be refused entirely.
 Mr. Benelt , of Wiltshire, conceived that to allow the rectifying of West-India spirits, as proposed by the petitioners, would be extremely injurious to the growers of barley, and generally to the landed interest of England.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  earnestly entreated gentlemen not to anticipate a discussion on this important question, which must come on in the regular course in the next twenty-four hours. He hoped that hon. members would rather wait until they had heard the statement of which his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning) had given notice, respecting it, and which stood for to-morrow.
 Mr. Maberly  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to submit his motion on the subject of the inequality of the duties paid by different classes of the public on Beer and Malt. He began by observing, that when the subject was before the House on a former occasion, but little had been said upon it, and he believed it was one which was not well understood. It was, however, as he viewed it, very simple, and rested upon the principles, whether one class of his majesty's subjects should be taxed higher than the others, and whether the persons taxing should reap all the benefit of this inequality. As there were various acts of parliament connected with the subject of the beer and malt duties, he did not think it expedient to enter into the question in all its ramifications. He would, therefore, confine himself solely to one branch of it; namely, the interests of the parties taxed, and the inequality of the mode of taxation. In order that he might not be misunderstood, he would now state the nature of the motion with which he should conclude. He would move "That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the present mode of taxing malt and beer separately; and whether it would not be expedient to collect the same amount of duties on malt alone, thereby taxing all consumers equally, instead of, as at present, taxing one class of malt consumers at 2 s d s d s d s d s d l s l s l l s s d s d 1014 s d l l s d l l s.; s d s l s 1015 s l l l l s d s d l l 1016 l s l s d s d s d 1017 s 1018 1019 s s d s d 1020
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was by no means prepared to admit that this question had been so imperfectly discussed last year. He did not flatter himself, that any thing he had then said was sufficient to persuade hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House; from their Votes at the time it was quite clear that they were not convinced against their will, although several members who disapproved of the motion had stated many unanswerable reasons for not consenting to the proposed committee. He would fairly confess that since the last debate on this question, nothing new had occurred to him, nor had a reconsideration of what had passed induced him to change the view which he had then taken of the subject. He could not therefore pretend that he was furnished either with new light or fresh information, and he much feared that his stock of ingenuity was far too small to furnish new arguments every time the gentlemen opposite chose after defeat to renew their motions. As it was rendered necessary, by the course which had been pursued, he would briefly re-state the grounds on which he had rested his opinion that it was inexpedient to acquiesce in the motion just submitted. The hon. gentleman had recommended his proposition, as being safe and salutary on two accounts principally. First, he had appealed to the anxiety of the House for economy; and, secondly, he had appealed to its love of justice. He had maintained, that by dividing the tax between beer and malt, the nation incurred a greater expense than if it were placed only upon one; and, further, that it was most unfair to relieve the rich at the expense of the poor. These general principles were undoubtedly very good, and in this case they had only the slight defect of wanting application. As
 1021 l l l l 1022 pro tanto 1023 1024
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that the motion was, in many respects, so objectionable, that he could not give it his support. Though it could not be denied that the Beer-tax was unequal, yet, when the hon. member contended, that the whole of the beer brewed by public brewers was drunk  by
 Mr. Maberly  denied that he had used the argument in an unqualified sense.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that although he might not have used the hon. member's words, yet he thought he had not mis-stated the tenour of his argument, and was positive that the hon. member had insinuated that the chancellor of the Exchequer persevered in his present views, in base compliance with the feelings of the country gentlemen. The hon. gentleman had done the same thing last year, when he promised in magnanimous terms, to hold them up to public notice: he had, he supposed done so by the present motion, and he wished him joy of the result. The hon. member had said, that if the duty were transferred, he was ready to concede any penalties to prevent abuses regarding malt; but, was he not aware of the enormous penalties and restrictions which at
 1026
 Mr. Maberly  interposed to explain. What he had said respecting penalties was, that he should be ready to affix the severest penalties to the mixing deleterious drugs with beer.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that the explanation of the hon. gentleman did not affect the argument he was prepared to offer, which was this: If from 20 s s
 Mr. Denison  would support the motion, because he thought his hon. friend had demonstrated, that the alteration would save a large sum in the collection of the revenue, while at the same time it would materially serve the poorer classes. The saving might be over-rated; but that it
 1027
 Mr. Cripps  said, there was no tax more evaded than the tax on malt. The number of private maltsters who contrived to carry on their business in spite of the vigilance of the Excise officers, was inconceivable to those who had hot the means of inquiring into the subject. To increase this tax would increase the evil, and he should therefore oppose the transfer of the beer duty to malt. There were no complaints of the beer tax as an unequal tax, and therefore it was to be presumed, that it was not felt to be such by the people. If, on the other hand, they reduced a part of the malt tax, he had no doubt the result would be most beneficial both to the revenue and to the agricultural; interest.
 Captain Maberly  said, there was an inconsistency in the argument of the hon. gentleman who had just spoken, and who had at first contended that it was improper to remove this tax, because, in other respects, the taxes on land were unequal. He told them, in the first place, that the land paid the poor-rates, the county-rates, &c. which personal property did not pay, and that therefore the taxation was unequal; but, on the other hand, he stated, that personal property was charged with the legacy duty, and the tax on the probate of wills, which the land was not charged with. While the hon. gentleman contended for the inequality of the system of taxation, as it affected land, he, with the same breath, admitted that it was
 1029
 Mr. Maberly  replied. He said, that the propositions contained in his motion went to shew the inequality that existed in the duties on malt and beer; and he had heard no argument whatever on the other side, to prove that that inequality did not exist. Indeed, that inequality was quite notorious; notwithstanding which the chancellor of the Exchequer had opposed his motion for a committee. It had been stated, that the saving, which he had estimated at 295,000 l 1030
 Sir R. Fergusson , although he agreed in much of what had just fallen from his hon. and gallant friend, yet differed from him in some points, and should certainly vote for the amendment. He was persuaded that the proposed experiment could never be made at a properer time than the present. His hon. and gallant friend had told the House ho had done the utmost he could to prevent corporal punishment in his own regiment. He was well persuaded of that, knowing, as he did, his hon. and gallant friend's character. There was also, he was most ready to
 1038
 Colonel Davies  said, he was certainly desirous that this declaration should be
 1041
 Mr. C. Grant  did not think that the inquiry as to the state of education in Ireland could possibly end during the session. With respect to charter-schools in Ireland, he condemned the principle, on which they were founded. He regretted that the estimate under the consideration of the House had been increased in amount this year. He must object to the institution of charter-schools, because he was convinced that the public money might be laid out to more advantage. There were powerful objections to them, both of a local and general nature. They were opposed to the feelings of the people of Ireland, and to their prejudices. The grant, however, could not be suddenly withdrawn, and for the present he would not oppose it.
 Mr. Goulbum  said, that with respect to a committee, he could not give any pledge or opinion one way or the other.
 Mr. C. Smith  opposed the motion for going into a committee.
 Mr. Ellice  said, he wished to call the particular attention of the chancellor of the Exchequer to the statements of the petition. It was most important, as far as regarded relief to the West Indies. The right hon. gentleman had stated the intention of government to reduce the duty on rum by 13½ d s d s d 1011
 Mr. Watson Taylor  said, he had not intended to make any objection to the right of petitioning, which he had always considered as amongst the most valuable privileges of the people. It was the abuse, and not the use of the right, to which he objected. He did not mean to impugn the motives of those who were adverse to the principle of negroe slavery; but he could not approve of the means which had been resorted to for getting up the petitions on the subject.
 Mr. Watson Taylor  said, he could not approve the manner in which some of these petitions for the abolition of slavery were got up. In his own country, itinerant adventurers had come down with petitions ready prepared. He would not say by whom those parties were sent, but certainly their conduct was far from being; praise-worthy. They addressed themselves to the passions of the people on the subject of negro slavery, rather than to reason. The poor artisan, mechanic, and!peasant, were asked, whether they objected to seeing persons in perpetual slavery; and on answering, of course, in the affirmative, they were requested to sign the petitions presented to them. He could not think this a fair way of collecting the opinions of the public on this important subject.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  defended the conduct of those who had made themselves active on this occasion, and contended, that some of the wisest and most humane men in the country were amongst the number of those who were favourable to the abolition of slavery. He was surprised to find hon. members so hostile to the exercise of the right of petition. He thought there must be something bad in the system, when gentlemen were so afraid of having it inquired into.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, he had some years ago, introduced this subject to the notice of parliament. It was one which nearly concerned the honour of the army; for nothing could be more galling to gentlemen than to be called on to put their names to a paper of this kind, well knowing, as they did, that the regulation to which it referred had not been obeyed Under these circumstances, he trusted that the commander-in-chief and the noble lord would turn their attention to the subject, and get rid
 1043 Dawkins
 Mr. Goulburn  was utterly at a loss to conceive why, because it might be desirable to appoint a committee to inquire into the present state of education in Ireland, the charitable institutions for that object should suddenly be deprived of their usual support. With respect to charter-schools, he admitted that the establishments were more in the light charitable institutions than of places, where systems of education were laid down. As a charitable system he was prepared to maintain it.
 Sir H. Hardinge  admitted, that under the present order, officers were placed in a most unpleasant situation. Fully persuaded of this, he had made it his duty to inquire into the matter, and he found it was under consideration in the proper quarter, to recall this very objectionable declaration or certificate [hear]. Gentlemen should, however, recollect, that this certificate was introduced to remedy a great evil; namely, the constant traffic in commissions, by which the officers of the army had been most seriously injured. The duke of York was anxious, by the regulation relative to the price of commissions, to preserve and secure the interests of the less wealthy officers. Under that regulation, it was impossible for a junior officer however rich, to step over the head of a senior officer, so long as the latter had the means of putting down the stipulated price for his commission, which was a point of very great importance. It certainly was fitting, in altering the system, to take care that the door should not be again opened to that extensive jobbing which prevailed before the certificate was introduced. He knew, however, that that form was viewed with hostile feelings by the army; and he had learned from a source on which he could implicitly rely, that measures were in contemplation for recalling this objectionable certificate. Under these circumstances, he conceived it would be wrong to agree to the clause proposed by the hon. gentleman, and he should therefore vote against it.
 Mr. Monck  said, he was sorry he could hot support the motion of the hon. member for Abingdon. If there was an inequality in the beer tax, it was an inequality which had existed from the very origin of the Excise. It was known that the tax on beer was a part of the hereditary revenue of the Excise, given to Charles 2nd in lieu of the wards and liveries; while it was not until the reign of William, that the landed interest would submit to a malt tax, justly considering it as a species of land tax, because the great consumption of malt was in the beer given to farmers' labourers. Now, he thought that, so far from amending an inequality by adopting the proposed motion, they would be exactly introducing one. The existing one was only apparent, while the proposed substitute would be real. The true way
 1028
 Mr. Hume  contended, that the arguments of the hon. mover had recieved no sufficient answer from the chancellor of the Exchequer. As to the assertion that by a transfer of the duty from beer to malt, there would be no economy in the expense of collection, he begged to dissent entirely therefrom. He wished they had before them the chairman, or any other proper officer, of the board of Excise, to put to him this question—"Do you not, in appointing your officers in any part of the country, calculate the number of hours that their occupations will furnish them, so as fully to employ their whole time? "He knew the answer would be in the affirmative; for no part of the public business was so attentively and laboriously performed as that done by the officers of the Excise. If these officers were employed once a day, or every other day, for three or four hours in each brewery, it was obvious, that, when this source of employment was taken away, a much smaller number of officers would be required, and a reduction might take place to a very large extent; though it was difficult to state the precise saving which might be effected. In regard to the chancellor of the Exchequer's answer to the objections drawn from the inequality of the tax, that answer amounted to this—" there is an inequality, but that inequality is not so great as the hon. mover has contended." Now really, in arguing a question of this kind, it mattered not whether one half, or a third, or a quarter of the poor were unequally affected. The question was, whether a tax was unequal or not? and, that it was unequal the right hon. gentleman had admitted. The truth was, that the great body of labouring people in the large towns were those upon whom the beer tax pressed with all its severity. As to the agricultural interest, so far from their being injured by the additional duty on malt, accompanied by a reduction of the tax on beer, the increased consumption of malt which would accompany the measure, and the stimulus that would thus be given to the growth of barley, would more than counterbalance any burthen that might be thrown on them as brewers of their own beer. The chancellor of the Exchequer should recollect how he was cheered when he declared,
 1025
 Mr. Hume  said, that after the reprobation which the system had met with from both sides of the House, he would not press his motion, but would beg leave to withdraw the clause.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Protestant charter-schools were a mere charity, and ought to be supported by the funds which had been left for that purpose. If parliament were called upon to grant money, it should be for general education, and not for the service of a particular class. Last year the right hon. secretary pledged his word that the sum demanded this year would be less than it was theft: but instead of
 1044 l l l
 Mr. Hume  next adverted, to the manner in which the purchase of commissions was at present effected, contrary to the regulation of the commander-in-chief, by which a certain sum only was allowed to be given for them. He believed many gentlemen were not aware of the declaration which officers made when they purchased promotion. That declaration was as follows "I do declare and certify, on the word and honour of an officer and a gentleman, that I did not allow in any way or manner, more than the sum of—as the fair value of the said commission." And underneath were the following words—"I hereby also declare, that I have made no clandestine bargain with respect to the said commission." Now, notwithstanding this declaration, there was scarcely one case in ten, in which officers received their commissions at the regulation price, though they thus certified that fact. The commander of the forces and the secretary at war could not be ignorant of what was done, and ought, therefore, to cancel such a useless declaration.
 1040
 Mr. Hume  said, he had given notice, on a former occasion, of his intention to propose a clause to be added to the Mutiny bill, when that subject should again be brought under the consideration of the House. Pie should now read to the House the clause which he meant to propose: it was this—"And be it further enacted, that it shall not be lawful to inflict corporal punishment, by flogging, on any private soldier, corporal, or non-commissioned officer, in the army or militia of the United Kingdom, any thing herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding." In a former stage of the bill, when he had endeavoured to obtain the consent of the House to this clause, and unfortunately without success, he had stated all the arguments which presented themselves to his mind, as likely to prevail upon the House to adopt it. He was not aware of any additional argument which he could urge on the present occasion, in favour of the view which he took of this question; but, since he had last addressed the House on the subject, he had had the good fortune to meet with an officer who had served in the army of Wurtem-berg, from whom he had obtained some information which might not be uninstructive, in considering this subject. It appeared, then, that during the reign of the late king, the system of flogging had been carried to a great extent: it was frequently resorted to, but the severest punishment rarely exceeded a hundred canes. However, this species of chastisement was considered so disgraceful, and had so demoralising an effect upon the men, that they became callous and indifferent to the value of character; and it happened not unfrequently that, from day to day, the punishment was repeated on the same individual; and the only effect ft produced was, to harden the offender, without in the least degree restoring that discipline, to accomplish which, this severity had been resorted to. Upon the accession of the present king, however, a different course was adopted, and at present no man in the army was subjected to this dis-
 1032 1033
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from certain individuals, rectifiers of British spirits, in and near the city of London. They represented, "That they had invested a large capital in the purchase of works near London, for the rectification of spirits; and stated, that notwithstanding it was declared by law that no distiller should be also a rectifier, a great many distillers were at this time rectifiers; that about six of the large distillers regulated the markets and prices in London; and that those individuals were also distillers." Now, he could not take upon himself to vouch for the truth of these several allegations, but their matter was of extreme importance, and well worthy the attention of the House. The petitioners further represented, that those large distillers used stills of the capacity of 3,000 gallons and upwards; and could effect, therefore, a very serious operation, at all times, on the market; the rectifiers not being able to obtain supplies of spirits from the distillers as they wanted them, if the distillers chose to withhold; and the distillers assigning no reason for the defect of supply. The petitioners prayed, that in justice to themselves and to the trade generally, the House would appoint a committee to inquire into the expediency of licensing stills of smaller dimensions than were at present allowed; by which means the monopoly complained of would be defeated,
 1010
 Mr. Hume  said, that the Irish government had formerly pledged itself to reduce the grant. It had accordingly been partially reduced: but now it was proposed, notwithstanding the pledge of the
 1046 l
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he could not but discover an alteration in the tone of the right hon. gentleman with respect to education in Ireland, and rather feared that the right hon. gentleman would oppose the motion for a committee. The House had now, for the first time during the last ten years, been called upon to give its approbation to the principle of charter-schools in Ireland. In former years, the failure of those establishments was admitted, and promises were made, that the grants would be reduced. But now the right hon. gentleman proposed to augment them. The right hon. gentleman had endeavoured to show a connexion between charter-schools and the Foundling-hospital. But that connection would make him more disposed to oppose the grant. He objected to charter-schools, because they were founded on an exclusive principle. He objected to that principle as much as he did to the proposition brought forward by the Catholic clergy the other night. He did not wish to see an exclusive system of education, either by the Catholics or by the Protestants, at the public expense; and, in his opinion, the House could only justify the refusal to the Catholics by discountenancing an exclusive system for the Protestants. With respect to the Foundling-hospital, that establishment was formerly supported by a tax on the citizens of Dublin. They complained of it, and the tax was removed; but then came down an augmented vote for that establishment—an establishment which had greatly added to the vice, the misery, and the sufferings of the people of Ireland. The principle had the same effect invariably, wherever it was applied; and it was a curious fact, that in Paris, since the institution of a foundling hospital in that city, the exposures of children had increased from the ratio of one in ten, to the ratio of one in three.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that if any case had been laid in this petition for the appointment of a committee, not only would he himself have been friendly to such a measure, but that respectable body, the malt-distillers, would have entertained, he was sure, no sort of objection to it. With all his high opinion of the public services of his hon. friend (Mr. Hume), and his conviction that, generally speaking, his hon. friend, had proved to be in the right when error was most strongly imputed to him, he did think that his hon. friend would experience the value of his own declaration, that he would not be answerable for the truth of the allegations in this petition. Last week he (Mr. S.) had happened to see the name which stood at the head of the subscribers to this petition; and he had then been told, by a member of the House, that the true reason of that person's inability to obtain spirits from the distillers was, not that they would supply the rectifiers, but that the credit of the individual himself was not such as to induce them to deal with him.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that in justice to his constituents, nearly all of whom had signed this petition, he could not avoid making one or two remarks upon the language held in the papers which had come from the West Indies. It had been stated in some of these, that the whole of the measures introduced on this subject had originated with a wild, mad-headed, fanatical party in this country. If the advocates for the measures alluded to were such a party, he was happy in being one of their number. Whether his majesty's ministers had voluntarily supported those measures, or been driven to them by this wild and fanatical party, he would not say; but most certainly their conduct was praiseworthy in what they had done. The hon. member next condemned the language held on this subject at some pa-
 1012
 Sir M. W. W. Ridley  said, they were now going to vote away a sum of money, and were told, that an inquiry into the subject of education in Ireland was immediately intended; was it then, under these circumstances, too much to ask a delay of ten days or a fortnight?
 Sir H. Vivian  was anxious that the certificate should be done away with, but could not support the proposed clause, as it was not the proper mode of accomplishing the object.
 Sir H. Vivian  said, he fully appreciated those humane sentiments which had been expressed by the hon. gentleman. The policy of carrying into execution those feelings, as far as was practicable, he, as a commanding officer, freely admitted; and, he was sure, he might add, that there was no commanding officer in the service, who was not disposed to relax the severity of punishment, as far as was consistent with prudence and wholesome discipline. But, he must at the same time take leave to state, that it was no slight reflection on the character of the illustrious individual who presided over the army with so much advantage to the country; it was no trifling censure on those who held the rank of general officers, to suppose that they would not
 1034 1035 1036 1037
 Sir J. Newport  maintained, that all the grants respecting education in Ireland ought to be postponed until the House had declared the principle on which they, would proceed with respect to them. The doling out separate sums in this manner destroyed the benefit which it was in tended to confer. He wished the subject to be treated as a whole, and to be submitted to a committee above stairs, for the purpose of ascertaining in what way the bounty of parliament could be rendered, most available. He would move as an amendment, that the present resolution be postponed.
 Lord Althorp  said, that on the best consideration he had been able to give to the subject, he felt himself bound to vote against the motion. He thought his hon. friend proceeded on the old fallacy, that two and two in taxation always made four. He calculated more than he had a right to do, on the effect of the measure in reducing the expense of collection. From the great inducements to fraud, he thought that reduction would not be practicable, to any considerable extent.
 Lord Althorp  said, that what had fallen
 1045
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that his hon. and gallant friend near him (sir H. Vivian) had so ably stated the merits of the question that it remained for him only to add a very few words. In fact, the last part of what had just fallen from the hon. general opposite, almost exceeded the principle for which he (lord P.) contended. The only difference between I them being as to the extent. The hon. general considered the power of inflicting the punishment applicable to foreign service. He (lord P.) thought it as applicable to home service. It was allowed on all hands that the punishment was not abused: that the practice of inflicting corporal punishment was much less frequent than formerly; and that it was in consequence of the efforts of the commander-in-chief that it had been so diminished. The proposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen went to take away a power, which he (lord P.) contended was absolutely necessary. It went to
 1039
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that this was a question full of difficulty. As to the clause proposed by the hon. member for Aberdeen, he really was at a loss to understand it as the hon. gentleman read it. The Mutiny bill had been described as a mass of unintelligible clauses; if so, he was sure its character would not be improved, if the clause proposed by the hon. member were added to it. He repeated, however, that the subject was full of difficulties. The practice itself of selling commissions was one which, fairly estimating all its advantages and disadvantages it decidedly appeared to be expedient to continue. It brought into the army many persons connected with the higher classes of society, and diffused a spirit that was very advantageous. If, however, commissions were allowed to be sold, it was obviously necessary to limit the price that was to be paid for them; for if not, and if every officer were permitted to bid according to his means and to his desire of promotion, abuses would take place beyond all calculation. An old and a poor officer would never get forward. Junior officers would overstep the most meritorious seniors. How, then, did the regulation in question apply? First, he would take the case of a commission sold by an officer in one regiment to an officer in another. There, there could be no difficulty—no danger of an infraction of the regulation. For the officer who wished to sell, applied to the commander-in-chief, and never came in contact with the officer who wished to purchase. He would next take the case of a regimental succession. Suppose it a majority that was to be sold. The senior captain had the pre-emption, if his means enabled him to purchase. Now, what temptation had he
 1042
 Mr. Secretary Canning  then proceeded to address the House as follows: 1092 nem. con
 Mr. Secretary Canning  continued.—I am desirous, Sir, that the House should have present to its mind the text of these resolutions; because it is by the spirit and meaning of them, that the conduct of his majesty's government has been guided. These resolutions therefore, and not any more sweeping principle, or any more wide-spread theory, constitute the criterion by which the conduct of the government is to be judged. 1093 1094 1095 status 1096 1097 1098 1099 "CŒlumque tueri Jussus, et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus;"— 1100 1101 1102 1103 1104 1105 1106 arcanum penetralia "Quos ego—sed motos præstat componere fluctus." 1107 1108 1109 1110 1111 piracy 1112
 Dr. Lushington  said, that the subject which he was about to introduce to the consideration of the House, was one of the greatest importance, and at the same time of the greatest extent. If it were necessary for him at that moment to enter into the details of the plan which he meant to propose to the committee (if he should be so fortunate as to induce the House to grant one), undoubtedly it would be incumbent on him to offer a detailed explanation of his objects; but, as he understood that there would not be any opposition given to the motion with which he meant to conclude, and as he was sure the House must be extremely anxious to hear the statement of the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs, he should confine those observations which he felt it to be his duty to make, within a very narrow compass. He intended to propose, then, that a committee should be appointed for the purpose of considering the expediency of consolidating and amending the criminal law of England. On the necessity of such a measure, he apprehended it would scarcely be requisite for him to make any observations. The House must be aware that from the time of Magna Charta, down to the present hour, there had been a series of criminal statutes passed, just as occasion had rendered it necessary to provide for the punishment or prevention of any particular offence. As there had hitherto been no regular system for the reduction of those statutes into any order or methodical form, they had at present attained to a considerable bulk, and were in a state of the greatest possible confusion. There had not been, hitherto, any attempt made to remedy the inconveniences which arose out of the existing condition of our criminal laws. Those inconveniences he would not attempt, on this occasion, to detail. He should assume that the House was sensible of them; and all that it would be now necessary for him to satisfy it of would be, that a remedy for such inconveniences was practicable: but he would not proceed to state the grounds upon which he was prepared to contend for the practicability of that remedy, because he was certain that the House was not just now disposed to follow him into all the explanations into which it would be ex-
 1063 1064
 Mr. Keith Douglas  expressed his sincere regret, that the honourable members for Weymouth and Bramber had not, in conformity with the recommendation and the example of the right hon. secretary of state for foreign affairs, abstained from the introduction into the debate of topics of an irritating nature; since the question before them was one which ought to be treated with the utmost caution and moderation. Instead of which, those hon. gentlemen had cited a number of particulars, which were not at all calculated to have an healing effect. In opposition to the insinuations of those hon. gentlemen, he would strenuously contend, that the colonial assemblies were most anxiously alive to every thing which concerned the welfare of the slave population. In the course of the last year, there had been hardly one of the colonial legislatures, with the exception of Jamaica, in which this question had not been maturely considered. In Tobago, and the other islands, laws had been passed, which went to
 1157
 Mr. Baring  said, he could have little hope that he should be able to command the attention of the House, after the beautiful speech which they had just heard from his hon. friend, the member for Bramber, whose speeches were always calculated to produce a powerful effect. He was, however, anxious to impress upon the House, the strong sense he felt, in common with his hon. friend, as to the imminent state of the present question. It appeared to him impossible that the country could now halt between two opinions. In justice to the poor creatures whose situation they wished to ameliorate on the one hand, and in justice to the planters who had so much at stake on the other, the House could no longer stand still: they must proceed, and do something decisive. His majesty's government should no longer suffer itself to be blown about, session after session, by every wind; at one time, in obedience to the wishes of the West-Indian interests, and, at another, in deference to the opinion of that party, which for shortness, he would call "the Saints" [a laugh]. 1158 1159 1160 1161 1162 1163 1164 1165
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, had made a most severe charge against his majesty's government, and indeed had broadly pronounced its condemnation in the beginning of his speech, in such a manner as might have produced a very powerful effect, if the hon. gentleman's own admissions, as he went on, had not afforded
 1166 1167 1168 1169 animus
 Dr. Lushington  said, that his hope of the active and cordial co-operation of the colonial legislatures was, he confessed, extremely small; and that, in this respect, the right hon. the secretary of state for foreign affairs seemed to entertain a directly opposite opinion from that which the right hon. gentleman had expressed last session, when the subject was brought under the consideration of the House. The right hon. gentleman had upon that occasion declared, that "we had a right to expect from the colonial legislatures, a full and fair co-operation. And," added the right hon. gentleman "being as much averse by habit, as I am at this moment precluded by duty, from mooting imaginary points, and looking to the solution of extreme, though not impossible questions, I must add, that any resistance which might be manifested to the express and declared wishes of parliament, any resistance, I mean, which should partake, not of reason, but of contumacy, would create a case (a case, however, which I sincerely trust will never occur) upon which his Majesty's government would not hesitate to come down to parliament for counsel." 1170 1171 1172 1173 1174 1175
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose to reply, and said:—Mr. Speaker; had I not been called upon in so direct a manner by some hon. gentlemen in the course of this debate, it was hot my intention to have offered myself again to your notice; and in addressing you at this late hour, Sir, and after so full a discussion, I am sure it will be agreeable to the House to hear that it is by no means my intention to trespass longer upon its time than may be necessary for replying to the questions which have been put to me. experiment example; 1195 1196 1197 1198
 Mr. C. Ellis,  rose, and said:— 1135 *
 Mr. Watson Taylor  said, that he felt himself bound, in candour, to commence his observations by stating, that in the way of property, he was deeply interested in the result of the present discussion Not that, on that account, he was at all inclined to take a limited and partial view of the subject, but that he felt that he owed great and awful obligations to the negroes themselves, who were more immediately interested in it than he himself was. Under these feelings it was, that he had always acted, in the management and protection of the negroes living upon his own estates. If it were worth the while to trouble the House with the details, he could produce them, and prove by unquestionable documents, that in every one of the numerous orders which he had sent out to the West Indies, he had expressed a constant care and anxiety for the comfortable condition of the negroes, whether in age or youth, whether in sickness or health, with respect to their diet, their lodging, their clothing, and the medicines requisite for them. 1176 l 1177 1178
 Mr. Blair  said;—.The hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Dr. Lushington) having in his speech alluded to the colony of Demerara, with which I am connected, I trust I shall be excused if I trouble the House with a few words. The hon. and learned gentleman says, that the late revolt in Demerara is not to be imputed to certain proceedings of last session in this place, but to the slaves having been overworked and maltreated; and in support of this allegation, he refers to the registration returns, which exhibit a larger number of deaths than of births. Sir, I am rather inclined to refer this mortality to an epidemic which prevailed in that colony last spring, and which was extremely fatal, and I deny that the negroes there are in any respect harshly used. On the contrary, I maintain, that they are as mildly and as humanely managed in Demerara, as in the Islands, or as is compatible with a state; of slavery and pressure; the hon. and learned gentleman has been studying
 1184
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  rose, and addressed the House nearly as follows:—
 Mr. J. Smith  rose to second the motion. He was, he said, convinced that the measure proposed by his hon. and learned friend would give the highest possible satisfaction to the country.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, he had been at Grenada, and had there seen none of those scenes of wretchedness, which had been described by some of the hon. gentlemen opposite. He would briefly advert to what had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for Norwich, as to the comparative infrequency of insurrections. In his opinion, this had arisen from the circumstance, that since the abolition of the slave trade, and in consequence of the discussion which the question had undergone, the inhabitants of the colonies had been more on their guard, and kept a constant watch. Insurrection, therefore, had rather been prevented by their own vigilance, than by any improvement in the habits of the slaves. The hon. member denied that free labour would be so profitable as slave labour, and asked, who was to feed the negroes, provided they were emancipated; as in that case they assuredly would not work. He thought, that if the question was to be pressed forward in the
 1194
 Mr. Evans  said, he sincerely believed that, generally speaking, the planters were extremely kind and liberal, but it appeared to him that it was one of the most lamentable parts of the slavery of the West Indies, that it was almost beyond the power of any owner of a plantation to give permanent alleviation to the condition of his slaves. He also thought, that the argument of the hon. member for Taunton, that a negro slave was in a more comfortable condition than the
 1183
 Mr. Manning  said:—Mr. Speaker; this question has been recommended by his Majesty's Speech at the opening of this session, to be treated with great temper and mature consideration—a recommendation highly desirable, as no question has been agitated for some time, within these walls, of greater interest to the nation at large. I am much gratified in observing, that this recommendation has been carefully attended to by the member for Seaford, who spoke on the part of the colonies; but whether it has been equally observed by the hon. gentleman opposite, the member for Weymouth, I shall leave to the House to judge. 1179 1180 1181 1182
 Mr. William Smith  said:—Sir, I do not mean at this hour to enter into a general discussion of the propositions immediately before the House; but I must acknowledge, that I, among others, am much disappointed at finding that what we regarded as the, pledge given last year, has not been more completely redeemed: nor can I imagine a situation of affairs in which it would have been more justifiable for his majesty's ministers to have "applied to parliament for counsel," than under the conduct pursued, and the language held in several of the colonies—fearing as I do, that, if now foregone, that step will eventually be found necessary, and perhaps in circumstances of greater difficulty; unless indeed (which I am in the last degree unwilling to suppose), the purpose of government be shaken as to the grand object to which it stands engaged. 1189 1190 1191 "For forms of government let fools contest, Whate'er is best adminster'd is best," 1192 1193
 Mr. Wilberforce  commenced his speech by observing, that if he had come into that House for the first time, and had heard the beautiful and flowing language of his right hon. friend which had communicated so much delight to the House, he should no doubt have rejoiced, that the blessings to be derived from his right hon. friend's plan for the amelioration of the condition of so many thousands of his fellow creatures, were about to be extended to so large a portion of the human race as the population of the island of Trinidad. But that feeling was overborne by the consideration, that, after what had passed in that House during the last session, that plan was not to be carried into effect to a much greater extent. It was therefore necessary for him to consider, how far he. was opposed to his right hon. friend on the present occasion. 1145 1146 1147 1148 1149 1150 1151 1152 1153 l 1154 1155 1156
 Mr. Speaker —In rising to express my sentiments upon the subject of the communications which we have just received, I think I cannot do better than to draw at once the broad line of distinction which presents itself to my mind. My feelings are not only different, but totally opposite, on several parts of that statement. To one part I can give my ready and cordial approbation: whilst I have listened to another, and that unfortunately—delicately as it was handled, and rapidly as it was dismissed—by far the most important portion, with no other feelings than those of pain and disappointment. 1113 1114 1115 1116 1117 1118 1119 1120 A A A 1121 1122 1123 A 1124 is 1125 1126 1127 1128 1129 1130 1131 1132 "Cœlum tueri, Et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus." os sublime "Cœlum tueri, Et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus."— "—it hurts his faculties; impedes His progress in the road of Science, blinds The eye-sight of discovery; and begets In those that suffer it a sordid mind, Bestial; a meagre intellect, unfit To be the tenant of man's noble form." venditioni exponas 1133 1134
 Sir G. H. Rose  said:—I entirely concur, Sir, with those who conceive, that the cure for West-India evils is to be sought for, and is attainable, far more by moral
 1185 1186 1187 1188
 Sir Robert Wilson  inquired of the right hon. secretary of state for foreign affairs, if the regulations now brought before the House were to be extended to the Cape of Good Hope, the Mauritius, and all our other colonies? He wished also to know, whether the 12th clause, which ordered, that no negro should receive more than twenty-five lashes "at any one time," meant, that the master might, for the same offence, but at some other time, tie up the slave, and, before his back was healed, again punish him?
 Sir George Cockburn  lamented, that the hon. member had gone so much into detail on this occasion, inasmuch as it compelled him to do so too in replying to his statement; and he lamented the circumstance the more especially, because he had received letters from some members of this party's family, requesting him not to go into the full exposure of his case. Had the hon. member thought proper to content himself with merely bringing the petition up, he (Sir George) would not have felt it necessary to take the step which he was about to do. The hon. member's proceeding, however, compelled him to it; and the case itself was so monstrous as to leave him no choice. The facts were simply these:—This Mr. Dundas Perrott, being a lieutenant in his majesty's navy, informed a person that he could get a protection from the impress. That person was a poor unfortunate servant-woman, who really imagined that Perrott could procure a protection for her husband, Robert Bullen. He required an advance of money for the purpose; and she gave him that money. He soon afterwards pressed her for more, which she again furnished. He still applied for money, in order, as he said, to fee the clerks at the Admiralty. She had parted with all the cash she had, and borrowed a sum to meet his demands: but still the man wanted additional funds. The poor woman was unable to raise them; but she happened to possess a small furnished house of her own, and actually took away her furniture and sold it. In conclusion, the man was pressed; and the unhappy wife, after having vainly sacrificed her all, went before a magistrate. That magistrate considered it proper, upon a hearing, to send the matter before another tribunal; and evidence was then gone into, which clearly proved, that a more iniquitous case was never yet produced before a court of justice. The Lords of the Admiralty, and the service generally, were filled with indignation at the detection of such misconduct in an officer who had the honour of bearing a commission in the
 1203 1204
 Mr. Monk  recommended Mr. Hume to withdraw the petition; and the latter, with the leave of the House, complied with the request.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he held in his hand a petition praying for a Reform in the Representation of the people in parliament. Though favourable to the principle of parliamentary reform, he certainly could not concur in the prayer of his constituent, from whom this petition, came; still, however, as the petition was, drawn up in language respectful to the. House, he thought it ought to be received. The petition was from Mr. George Worgman, a jeweller, in the Strand. He prayed that the House might do away with the complex machinery at present used in borough elections—that they would repeal the acts against bribery and corruption at such elections. By these means, he thought the higher orders would be duly represented. It was the higher orders, the petitioner thought, and not the lower, which were not duly represented in that House. He further thought, that if the laws against bribery and corruption at elections were repealed, that influence might be openly exercised which was now carried on through, dark and secret channels; that an advantage would arise from giving to men of property sufficient to purchase the patronage of a borough, that fair representation in parliament to which such property was entitled. He also prayed, that the House would sanction bylaw the open purchase and sale of seats in that House. It was well known, the hon. member observed, that such bargains daily took place, and he could see no objection to making those seats, which were now the objects of secret bargain and sale, open to the public competition of such as might be disposed to expend their money in that way. The petitioner, in speaking to him on this subject, had stated, that this was the only kind of reform to which it was likely the House would agree, and he thought it would be attended with many advantages. The last prayer of the petitioner was, that large towns, such as Birmingham and Manchester, should be empowered to return members, in order that the balance might be kept true by the representation of the popular interests, and in order to keep open the channels for aspiring candidates who might wish to advance to official appointments. The plan of Mr. Worgman was therefore no wild or visionary project, incapable of being rendered intelligible, but a plain, comprehensive
 1207 1208 1209
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the petitioner was found guilty by a jury, and he now appealed from the decision of a jury, stating that he was innocent of an offence of which that jury, on their oaths, had said he was guilty. This, he believed, was the first attempt that had been made to establish a precedent, the dangerous consequences of which it was not necessary to dwell on. With respect to what had been said about affidavits, four out of five of the affidavits which parties made, complaining of the administration of justice, were framed in the same way. There was one plain answer to these affidavits—why were not the persons by whom they were made examined in open court? No, they shrunk from such examination; but were ready enough to come forward with affidavits, where they were not exposed to the penalties attendant upon perjury.
 Mr. Bernal  stated, that the explanation given by the noble lord must be as satisfactory to the House as it was creditable to the regiments of Guards. Nor did he think the gallant officer opposite him had any occasion to be dissatisfied with the statement of his hon. friend, who had brought the matter forward.
 Colonel Dawkins  said, he thought it unnecessary to add any thing to the explanation of the noble lord, which had proved so satisfactory.
 Mr. Agar Ellis  was bound to state, that such a case as that brought forward by his hon. friend he had never heard. The explanations of gentlemen opposite must have quite satisfied the House, as to the impropriety of proceeding further in the matter.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that if the hon. member had made the other night a statement similar to that which he had now made, he should not have expressed himself with any warmth; but certainly the imputation that the officers of the Guards put into their own pockets the pay of the imprisoned men, was one which he felt it necessary to repel. The allowances of the officers in the Guards were far from being extravagant, as compared with those of the rest of the army. He was ready to show the hon. gentleman the accounts, by which he would see, that the expense of the officers of a battalion of the Guards was 700 l
 Mr. Croker  assured the House, that had there been any doubt in this case, the Admiralty would have given the benefit of that doubt to a person in so interesting a situation as that of a wounded officer. He would mention a single fact, which, he thought, would go far to satisfy the minds of gentlemen upon the merits of this case. It was a fact that took place, he would assume, without the knowledge of either of the parties, but while this fraudulent negotiation was going on between Perrott and the poor woman. Perrott now denied that there was either
 1205
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from Mr. Henry Dundas Perrott, late a lieutenant in the royal navy, complaining of the treatment he had experienced from the Board of Admiralty, and praying the House to refer his case to the twelve judges. The hon. gentleman observed, that: while there was any prospect that the injustice: of which the petitioner complained might be remedied in the proper official quarter, he had advised him to abstain, from any application to parliament; but that now, as all hope of that nature seemed to be at an end, he submitted the circumstances of
 1199 l. 1200 1201 1202
 Mr. Hume  referred to what had passed on two former evenings respecting the Stock Purse of the Regiments of Foot Guards,
 1210 d 1211 d 1212
 Mr. Hume , in explanation, contended that the question was, whether the facts that had been sworn to against the petitioner were proved or not. By the affidavits which he held in his hand, it appeared, as he maintained, that they were not proved. This petition had been handed to him by sir Edward Perrott; and in answer to a question which he had put to sir Edward, as to whether he was prepared to meet any statement that the petition might occasion in parliament, sir Edward had replied, that he was quite willing to do so; and that he was most anxious it should be presented without loss of time.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not press the House to a division, but he thought the petitioner intitled to the commiseration pf the country.
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself satisfied with the explanation given, and observed, that he could not have been expected to know what was the manner in which the money was disposed of, as the noble lord had only known it by inquiring, since the subject had been mentioned in that House.
 Mr. Peel  added, that he might have objected to the reception of the petition, on the technical ground, that it prayed for pecuniary compensation.
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that it bad come to the knowledge of the Admiralty, that some members of the petitioner's family had tampered with Mrs. Bullen before the trial, and offered her the money out of which she had been defrauded, if she would not appear against the petitioner. After the verdict, it was not a question for the Admiralty, whether the indictment was found deficient on technical points, but whether the petitioner was morally guilty.
 Sir Isaac Coffin  would be glad to know, whether gentlemen could suppose that any Admiralty in the world would be so inhuman, as to refuse relief to a man who had suffered so much in the cause of his' country as the petitioner appeared to have done, if there did not exist some strong case against him.
 Sir J. Shelley  said, the Guards would be found as little expensive in reality, as any branch of the army.
 Lord Palmerston  thought he should be able in a few words fully to explain all that had puzzled the hon. member for Aberdeen. Previously to the year 1783, all the regiments of the service were on the same footing as the Guards at present. Pay was issued for the full number of men voted, and the difference between the pay issued to the establishment and the effective numbers, in other words, the pay of the ineffectives went to form a stock-purse, the mysterious term which had so confused the hon. mover. Out of this stock-purse were paid the expenses of recruiting, of hospitals; and the remainder, if any, was divided among the captains of companies. When Mr. Burke brought in his bill which abolished the stock-purses in the regiments of the line, and provided that pay should be issued for the effectives only, the Foot guards were excepted from the arrangement. The hon. member had said, that Mr. Windham as well as himself (lord P.) had wished to extend the system of the rest of the army to the
 1213 1214
 Mr. Baring  said, that from the speech of his hon. friend, the House might be induced to suppose, that he was holding it up as the petition of a certain number of persons, in favour of the measures proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer. No such thing. His hon. friend having
 1286
 Mr. Philips  said, that any person who had read the evidence taken before a committee of the Lords—evidence not taken with a view to the plans of the chancellor of the Exchequer, but not the less applicable to his views—must feel convinced, that the English manufacturer had nothing whatever to fear from a competition with France. The very man who now petitioned against the arrangements of the chancellor of the Exchequer, had stated
 1287
 Mr. Baring  begged to remind the House, that with every disposition to obtain and get up petitions on this subject, not one had yet been laid upon the table approving of the whole of the project of the chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. member for Aberdeen had indeed read a letter from one house in London, but that firm had been the advisers of the chancellor of the Exchequer, and were of course anxious that the scheme should be carried speedily into effect, as they had so conducted their speculations as to be burgely benefited by the change.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  expressed a wish, that the chancellor of the Exchequer should state to the House the exact sum which the country was likely to lose by the amount of the drawbacks. Some had fixed it at 100,000 l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as he understood that the counsel who was to have been heard to-day was prevented from attending by indisposition, he proposed now to go into the committee, merely to fill up the blanks, that it might be put into an intelligible shape, and that on Monday, when the counsel hoped to be able to attend, they might go into the committee again.
 Mr. Hume  wished to represent to the chancellor of the Exchequer the serious hardship upon individuals in this trade who had large stocks of silk, which though not strictly uncut, were in pieces of 30 or 40 yards in length. These dealers would suffer great loss; because, if simply a pattern was cut off, the drawback could not be obtained on it. He had heard of an individual who had a stock of 50,000 l l
 Mr. Ellice  said, he was perfectly ready to concur in the suggestion of the chancellor of the Exchequer; but he was anxious that the right hon. gentleman should give some explanation to prevent what be had now thrown out from being misunderstood. From the anxiety which prevailed on the subject, he hoped he would now state, that he did not intend to vary, in any material degree, the measure now before the House.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was quite ready to state again, that it would not be expedient to introduce into the bill any changes other than those which he had already mentioned to the House, The bill with the blanks filled
 1291
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the chancellor of the Exchequer intended to exclude the consideration of the question of cut goods? He hoped not. As the public would pay so much in the way of drawback he trusted that injustice would not be done to a few individuals, by a regulation which would prevent them from receiving the compensation on their stock which others received. He thought some rule should be adopted to give the drawback to all cut pieces of not less than a certain number of yards, say 30 or 40. The rule had, in fact, been already laid down in respect to ribbons; all pieces exceeding 18 yards receiving the drawback.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought it would be better that the chancellor of the Exchequer should go into the committee, unshackled by any such pledge as that which the hon. member for Coventry wished to exact from him. Let them go into a committee on Monday, and then do what seemed just.
 Mr. Ellice  explained, that it was by no means his intention to prevent the chancellor of the Exchequer from yielding in any particular point on which reasons should be offered. He merely wished it to be clearly understood, that the chancellor of the Exchequer did not intend to give up his measure in any material point.
 Mr. Baring  said, he perfectly understood the declaration of the chancellor of the Exchequer to go to that extent only. It would certainly be absurd to say to any petitioner "you shall not convince me;" though he was persuaded, in point of fact, that they would not persuade the chancellor of the Exchequer. As to the question of the cut goods, he knew that the allowing the drawback upon them would augment very considerably the sum to be paid by the public; but the more he looked at the question, the less he saw any reason to resist the claim of the holders of this species of goods. The small dealer who had a few hundred, or a thousand pounds worth of silk, consisting of cut pieces, was injured as much, in proportion to his means and fortune, as the great manufacturer, and was just as much entitled to compensation. The shopkeepers seldom had whole pieces of silk, because on fancy goods, large quantities of one kind would be inconvenient. To say that
 1292
 Mr. Herries  said, the term was under stood by the dealers to mean silks made up in the original packages in which the wholesale dealers had supplied them, and not used. He had heard no complaint of the term, which was generally well enough understood.
 Mr. Ellice  said, there need be no apprehension of the old and unfashionable pieces of silk being sent in to receive the drawback, because, as soon as the fashion changed, they were usually exported.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, there seemed a great injustice in the treatment of the holders of uncut goods. The regulation was extremely hard upon many who held 20,000 l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that though he had not himself seen the individuals interested in the drawback on cut silk, their case had been fully stated to his right hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) at the Board of Trade, and, without now going into the case, he would say, that they did not seem to him to have established their claim to have the drawback returned on all their remnants; for to that extent must their claim, if admitted, go. It was not consistent with the principle usually acted upon in the return of duties, nor was it morally possible for the government to receive all the remnants that might be sent in by the little shopkeepers in country towns.
 Mr. Littleton  thought it would be impracticable to allow the duties on the
 1293
 Mr. Alderman Wood  called the attention of the committee to the case of those wholesale dealers in silk who sent travellers round the country, and who were in the habit of cutting off small pieces as patterns to shew the colour. Now, these persons, though they might not have sold a yard of their goods, could not get a return of the duty, because they were "cut." Many of his constituents were in this situation, and had from ten to 25,000 l
 Mr. Mundy  admitted, that the alarm formerly prevailing in Derbyshire had subsided. The silk manufacturers were now content with what had been conceded. He hoped the chancellor of the Exchequer would persevere.
 Mr. Baring  remarked, that the manufacturers of Derbyshire might very reasonably be contented, because the chancellor of the Exchequer had given them a special protection and exemption. They were silk-throwsters, and had an advantage over the rest of the trade, in opposition to all the fine principles of political economy.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  presented a petition from the retail silk-mercers of London, praying that the drawback may extend to cut pieces of silk goods. They stated, that ninety-nine hundredths of their stock consisted of cut goods, and contended that they were entitled to compensation, as they should otherwise be losers to the extent of 800,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as the petition before the House related to silk and not to wool, a more convenient time might be found for discussing the claims of the manufacturers of the latter. That time was necessarily near at hand, when he should be quite ready to enter fully into the subject; and he undertook to demonstrate, even to the satisfaction of the hon. member for Bristol that the course he intended to pursue, was identically that which the woollen manufacturers themselves had proposed. As to the question which had been put to him by the hon. baronet, he must be aware of the extreme difficulty of arriving at any calculation, as to the cost of this measure, within a few thousand pounds; Thus much he would say, that of all the exaggerations that had ever entered into the mind of man, that which had been propagated so industriously on this subject was the grossest. It had been stated in some quarters, that the drawbacks would amount to not less than
 1289 l., l l
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that he was anxious that the drawback should be allowed on cut as well as uncut silk.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, the grant had been a great boon to Cork and its neighbourhood: and he doubted, though the support from private subscriptions was considerable, whether the Institution could survive the cessation of the grant.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  agreed with the hon. member, that the principle of these parliamentary grants was objectionable,
 1295
 Mr. Alderman Wood  suggested to the right hon. secretary for Ireland, to propose the admission of his hon. friend as an honorary member, as soon as he returned to that country. His hon. friend was well acquainted with the details of the Institution, and with all its proceedings, and there was no doubt that whether admitted as an honorary member or as a pecuniary subscriber, his presence would be productive of great advantage.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  thought that the right hon. secretary for Ireland should convince himself of the public utility of the vote, before he called for the vote of next year. The Horticultural Society was not supported by public subscription; and he saw no reason why the Dublin Society, as well as all others, should not be supported by individual contributions.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he thought that the hon. gentleman, instead of proposing the reduction of this vote, would do well to go over to Dublin and subscribe 50 l
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that in addition to the general principles, so strongly and laudably urged by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and who had taken so deep an interest in the welfare of Ireland, there were local reasons which made it necessary to extend the grant to Ireland. No part of the empire had suffered more than Dublin in consequence of the removal of the parliament. The Irish parliament had always been liberal in their grants for the improvement of Dublin, and it would ill become them to be niggardly. Let the hon. member for Aberdeen only look at the money voted for improving the avenues leading to that House; for the improvements in Westminster Abbey, and other places; and he would find that it was only justice to do
 1301
 Mr. Hutchinson  could not conceive why the right hon. gentleman should call for precisely the same sum this year as he had done in the last. What reason had he to suppose that the proclamations would be equally numerous?
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  animadverted strongly upon the observations of the last speaker upon the bounties, and justified the laws as necessary to the protection of the trade. He, however, fully agreed as to the propriety of some alteration in the constitution of the Linen Board. He strongly objected to the opinions of the hon. baronet (sir H. Parnell) concerning the repeal of the bounties.
 Mr. C. Grant  said, he was fully sensible of the many vexatious and useless regulations which fettered the linen trade of Ireland. He could not feel at all satisfied with the report of the select committee. He wondered how any trade could have prospered under these regulations. This code of laws which had been in existence for a century, had been varied almost every ten years, thus keeping the trade in a. constant state of uncertainty.
 1308
 Mr. Ellice  said, he had received letters from various parts of the country, embracing the same opinions as those which the petitioners had expressed. The manufacturers of Coventry were anxious that the right hon. gentleman should not make any alteration in his measures. Indeed, those measures had proceeded so far, that it would be difficult, even if it were desirable, for the right hon. gentleman to go back. Having said so much, he felt himself bound to take notice of an assertion which he had heard that night. It. was said, that the silk manufacturers of this country were able to compete with the manufacturers of France. This he must deny. The English manufacturer was not able to do so in the article of dyeing, nor had he machinery of equal excellence. A number of looms had been some time since imported from France, and Frenchmen had even been brought over to work at them.
 Mr. Dawson  contended, that the purchasers of linen in Ireland were perfectly satisfied with the laws: and that, as the weaving was carried on by poor people, there would be endless frauds, were it not for the inspection and measuring of the linen.
 Mr. Dawson  said, that the proclamations in question were frequently inserted to fill up the country papers, without being paid for by government.
 Mr. Bennet  alluded to some abuses
 1305
 Mr. Bright  feared, that although the chancellor of the Exchequer was disposed to be very liberal to the dealers in silk, the dealers in wool would suffer severely by the proposed changes in our system. Reports had gone abroad, that it was not intended by government to allow any drawback upon wool, and he had called the attention of the president of the Board of Trade to the point on a former day. The two trades were of equal importance to the welfare of the state, and ought to be treated with equal justice. The woollen manufacturers were in a state of the greatest alarm, in consequence of an apprehension that they were to be dealt with most unfairly by the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the utility of the Institution consisted in the opportunity of access which it afforded to various materials, for those who were in the pursuit of the arts and sciences. The lectures delivered there had been productive of great advantage, and were well attended. He was satisfied that the society would be more justly appreciated if its objects were more fully understood.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that the difference was made up by the members of the society, who contributed materially towards the support of the Institution: each member on his admission paying a sum of 50 l
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he should be prepared from the advantages conferred by the Institution on Cork and its neighbourhood, to support the grant, even if the subscriptions were smaller. There were lectures and they were attended; though he could not say by what number of students. The object was, to diffuse information among the middle classes, and in that way the lectures Could not fail to be useful.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, there certainly were funds; but the reason why he proposed a vote for Cork, and should not do so for Liverpool, was, that there was a difference between a town abounding in capital, such as Liverpool, and a much less opulent one, such as Cork.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that if there was any surplus remaining of the grant, it would be satisfactorily accounted for.
 Mr. Goulburn  defended the grant, the amount of which, he observed, was calculated with reference to the probable expenditure. Of course, if there were any surplus, it would be accounted for. He wished it to be understood, that the notices of commutation under the tithe bill, which, in consequence of a clause introduced into that bill at the suggestion of the hon. member for Limerick, must be inserted in the Gazette, had last year created an expense of 2,000 l
 Mr. Goulburn  said, the paper was furnished at the lowest rate at which the public could possibly be served. The right hon. baronet asked, why persons in the different offices could not write on Irish, instead of English paper. Now he believed the right hon. baronet himself, when he was in office never wrote on Irish paper. He was convinced, if the right hon. baronet had as many letters to write as fell to his (Mr. G.'s) lot, he would be anxious to use English paper, on account of its superior smoothness. He was sure the committee would agree with him, that it was true economy to procure a good article at an advanced price, rather than a bad one at a very low rate.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that as to the inconsistency imputed to him, of having the printing done in Ireland and procuring the paper from England, the printing could be done, as well in Ireland as in England; but the paper could not be got so good in the former country as in the latter. If the patentee supplied the paper as cheap as it could be got elsewhere, there was economy in allowing him to continue it.
 Mr. Goulburn  was not aware that any promise had been made to effect a reform, or that any reform was necessary. Formerly, there were complaints that the price of the stationery was too high, and an arrangement had in consequence been made with the person who held the patent for supplying the stationery, that he should supply it at the same rate as other
 1302
 Mr. Goulburn  replied, that the prices could not be brought down to that level, because the greater part of the paper consumed in Ireland was English paper. The course now taken was this—a list of prices was furnished every year from England, and upon those prices 10 per cent additional was allowed in Ireland to the patentee, besides 6½ per cent, in consideration of his supplying the stationery retail, which saved the expense to government of a separate establishment.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he could not hear the people of Ireland accused of any indisposition to contribute to the support of the charitable or literary institutions of the country. There was not a disease to
 1299
 Mr. Monck  said, he looked upon this Institution as a national museum. It was the fashion now-a-days to have museums. Paris had her museum, London had hers, and he could see no reason why Dublin should be without one.
 Mr. John Smith  said, his hon. friend ought to have known, that to much of the distress which had existed from time to time in Ireland, this country had been instrumental. His hon. friend was constantly objecting to the votes for Ireland, but we grant money for the purchase of pictures and works of art in this country, and why should not Ireland have the same advantages? As to the widening the streets of Dublin, he could not say, whether it was necessary or not but he would tell his hon. friend, that the inhabitants of Dublin had as good a right to public money for this purpose as the people of Scotland had for the making of the Caledonian canal, or for the repairing of their roads. He regarded this subject in quite a different light; and the only objection he had to the present vote was, lest it might be converted into a job. He should be happy to see a much more liberal and extensive grant proposed. England owed a long debt of gratitude to Ireland, for much of her present splendor and prosperity had been derived from the humiliation of Ireland. Upon that subject he would not now enter; but as an Englishman, having no connexion or interest with Ireland further than the dictates of his own conscience, he would say that if the grant were infinitely more liberal, it should have his cordial support.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he also had not the slightest idea of casting any reflection on the Irish people. If he were asked, whether he would withdraw these grants, he should answer no; but his objection to them was, that he could not learn how the money was applied. Only once point out to him how the people of Ireland could really be benefited, and he would vote double or treble the sum proposed.
 Mr. Hume  said, he should like to know what they want with wide streets in Dublin. If the people of London widened their own streets, why should not the people of Dublin do the same? He saw here a sum of money to defray the interest of the funded debt. Now, he could not see why they should go beyond their means, or get in debt at all. This must have been done by the corporation [no, no, no, from Mr. Ellis and some others!]. Well, he thought the corporation were the only people who could have acted so foolishly. Really, to call upon the English people to pay for widening the streets of Dublin, exceeded any thing that ever came to his knowledge. Notwithstanding all that was said about the poverty of Dublin, he
 1300 l
 Mr. Hume  said, he would be most happy to attend to the suggestion of the right hon. secretary, if he would promise to allow him a committee on the spot.
 Mr. Hume  said, it had been understood that the prices of stationery in Ireland were to be brought down to the level of those in England.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the grants to which the right hon. gentleman had alluded, by no means justified the present grant. He considered the grant to Westminster Abbey to be very ill bestowed, especially as the public were now excluded from entering it, unless they paid a heavy fee to the Dean and Chapter. No grants had ever been made to the citizens of London for the improvement of their city. Member.
 Mr. Hume  allowed, that 1,50,000 l
 Mr. Hume  said, it appeared, from papers which had been laid before parliament, that the public had been defrauded to a considerable extent, in the stationery department in Dublin. What was the excuse which was made on that occasion? Why, they were told, that though the money went into the pocket of the master it was totally without his knowledge that the fraud was committed by his servant. There ought in his opinion, to be 2,000 l
 Mr. Hume  opposed the grant. He could see no reason, why a mode of promulgating proclamations should be adopted in Ireland, different from that which was followed in this country. It had been over and over again stated, that the system, pursued in Ireland, with respect
 1304 l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that when he had last year proposed that the printing of certain public documents, should be executed in England, by which a saving of 2,500 l 1303
 Mr. Hume  rose to inquire, if the reform which had last year been promised as to the stationery department had been carried into effect?
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the country papers did not want money for the insertion of the proclamations, why vote this grant?
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not think that the member for Dublin was the best possible judge of the mode of discharging the duties of a public officer. That hon. member received an enormous salary, for acting as master in Chancery in Dublin—an office supposed to have responsible and arduous duties attached to it, until, to the
 1306
 Mr. Hume  said, that the linen trade was carried on in Scotland exactly in the same way as in Ireland; that the weavers lived over the country; that the laws about seal-masters, inspectors, and making-up yarn and linen, had been exactly the same in Scotland as they are in Ireland; and that the greatest advantages had been derived from the repeal of those laws. There was no second opinion on the subject in Scotland.
 Mr. Hume  said, that all the good which he could discover had arisen from the society, was an improvement in carpentry. No doubt the cabinet-makers were greatly improved in their trade, in consequence of the lectures. But his real opinion was, that politics were more attended to there than matters of science. He should like to know how many mines had been opened, and what was done with the 7,000 l 1297 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that in Ireland, as well as in this country and every where else, the moment the government gave its funds, private subscriptions were withdrawn. The subscriptions when the grant was first made were now called considerable. They amounted to sixty pounds a year! This was not very creditable to the public spirit of the people of Cork and its neighbourhood. Were there lectures, and how many students attended them?
 Mr. Hume  said, he doubted very much whether any benefit was derived from the Royal Society of Dublin. He believed the member for Limerick and some other hon. members had lately visited the Institution and had expressed their satisfaction at finding every thing nice and neat: but for his part, he really believed, the whole society was a  humbug. l l
 Mr. Hume  said, he observed that the expense of this establishment considerably exceeded the sum which appeared in the estimates. He wished to know how this difference was made up.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would repeat the question he had put last year—why should a sum be voted to a scientific Institution at Cork more than at Liverpool, or any other city? Certainly some reason should be given why the government, after having set the Institution a-going, should not withdraw its aid, and leave it to be supported by the subscriptions of the inhabitants? Were there any funds from that source?
 Mr. Hume  thought the House would know how to estimate the argument of his hon. friend who spoke last, when it remembered the petition, signed by twelve persons, which his hon. friend had presented on the preceding night. Twelve persons, he believed, were all that could be found in the city of London to subscribe it. Those individuals (at the head of whom he observed the respectable name of Hale) wished to keep up the Spitalfields monopoly. Now, the petition which had just been presented was signed by thirty-three of the principal persons of the trade in London, in the short space of two hours and a half; and so far from their not being favourable to the principles upon which the chancellor of the Exchequer was proceeding in this business, they earnestly prayed that the measures proposed by the right hon. gentleman might be acted on with as little delay as possible. He had received a letter from one of the very first houses in London, that of Messrs. Wilson, Moore, and Robinson, in which they expressly said, that, with the time which was now allowed for the arrangements, the silk trade in London had nothing to fear from a competition with the manufactures of France.
 Mr. T. Ellis  said, he fully concurred with his right hon. friend as to the utility of the Institution.
 Mr. Ellis  said, that the hon. gentleman seemed ignorant of the constitution of the corporation. There were but a few aldermen who received salaries as police magistrates. The great body of the aldermen did not receive salaries.
 Mr. T. Ellis  defended the aldermen. He said, that the barristers, who were also justices, gave as much of their time as was necessary, to the business of the police offices.
 Mr. Spring Rice  observed, that the Dublin aldermen, who received salaries for attending at the Police offices as justices, did not devote their time to the duties of those offices, but carried on business in Dublin.
 Mr. S. Rice  thought, that this explanation of the right hon. gentleman only made the matter worse. For, if 6,000 l l
 Mr. Spring Rice  was of opinion, that the cases of Ireland and Scotland were not analogous. He strongly urged the new modelling of the Linen Board.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, the hon. member had been misinformed as to the object of his recent visit to the Royal Society of Dublin. His object in visiting the Institution was not one of mere curiosity; but as a plan was at that time on foot, among a number of gentlemen in Dublin, for embarking a considerable capital in opening mines, he had visited the Institution for the purpose of obtaining information with a view to that object. He had succeeded in obtaining some very valuable information, and the result had been the formation of a company, with a capital of half a million, for the purpose of carrying into effect some of the plans which had been suggested. The school for design, to which the hon. member had adverted, had been established with a view to the cultivation of the fine arts in Ireland; and that object had been prosecuted with a considerable prospect of success. He was happy to add, that a gentleman who had held an office in the Board of Works, Mr. Johnson, had munificently devoted from 10 to 12,000 l
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, it was proposed in 1806, when this vote was first made, that this should be a circulating grant;
 1294
 Mr. T. Wilson  supported the prayer of the petition, and contended that the retail dealers in silk were better entitled to
 1290
 Mr. Evans  stated, that his constituents were satisfied with the arrangement.
 Mr. Haldimand  added, that the petition had been prepared and signed in an hour and an half that morning. The petitioners did not say, that they were satisfied with
 1288
 Mr. Haldimand  rose to present a petition from some of the most respectable, and he might add most intelligent, silk manufacturers in England. It related to the arrangements which it was understood were to be made for carrying into effect the propositions of the chancellor of the Exchequer in respect of this trade; and it prayed that no alteration might be made in those arrangements. The petitioners especially prayed that there might be no delay in their execution; and they added, that if this question of delay had not been agitated afresh, the whole of their hands would have been by this time in active employment. They also expressed their perfect satisfaction with the intention which had been avowed, of allowing them a drawback upon manufactured articles. With regard to the suggestion as to spreading the operation of the new arrangements over a certain number of years, he really thought it could have no other effect but to paralyze the trade, and repress the energy, which, if the right hon. gentleman's propositions were at once adopted, it would undoubtedly manifest. He had seen that morning some silk merchants, as well as the manufacturers, and had expected to be intrusted with a petition from them. He was, however, enabled to say, that the silk merchants were favourable to the new arrangements.
 Mr. W. Williams  doubted the policy of such votes as this. As long as parliament defrayed the expenses of such institutions, private munificence would not flow in its natural channel. The greatest benefit that could be conferred on Ireland would be, to diffuse education throughout that unhappy country; the greatest part of which was involved in the grossest bigotry and ignorance. The mass of the people of Ireland could derive no advantage from a botanical institution. If the sense of the House were taken, he should vote against the grant; not that he thought the Institution absolutely useless, but because he thought the money might be more usefully employed.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, he must have been greatly misunderstood, if it was supposed that he meant to make the slightest charge either against any individuals connected with Ireland, or the body of the people at large. His object was, not censure, but praise. His great objection to the grant was founded upon the impolicy of supporting these institutions by the public money.
 Mr. W. Williams  said, he was more and more confirmed in his opinion by the speech of the right hon. baronet as to the impolicy of supporting these institutions by the public money. That Irishmen contributed largely to the institutions in this country, it would ill-become him to deny. That assertion was well founded; and upon that alone he would found his opinion, that parliament should not interfere. That the Irish gentry should be so insensible to national pride and national honour, as to neglect the institutions of their own country whilst they supported those of another, was what he could never believe would be done without some good cause. The cause appeared: to him to be this—that they thought their money would be better expended on institutions which were supported by individual contributors than on establishments which were sure to be lavishly supplied with money from parliament. He had the honour and happiness to be acquainted with many Irishmen; and he was persuaded, from their national feeling, that if this grant were withdrawn, they would at once come forward to support the institutions of their own country. Once give them this stimulus, and the institutions in Ireland would soon vie in splendor and vigour with the most favoured establishments of this country.
 Sir G. Hill  referred to the report of the select committee of 1822, which expressed an opinion in favour of the policy of these laws. He denied that the repeal of the bounties would injure the Irish trade.
 Sir H. Parnell  begged to assure his right hon. friend (Mr. V. Fitzgerald), that he had not formed his opinions about the Linen bounties, merely upon theory. He believed that all the acknowledged general principles of trade could be sustained by reference to facts and experience. By such a reference he was ready to contend, that the bounties could not do what the advocates of them said they would do; namely, increase the employment of the people. The employment of the people could not be increased without an increase of capital. But how would the bounties increase capital? The fact was, that in proportion as the bounties brought capital into employment in the South of Ireland, to make linen, they would take it from some other occupation, and thus throw as many people out of employ in one way, as they gave employment to in another. The justification which had been set up for the linen laws by the member for Derry (Mr. Dawson), that they were necessary to prevent frauds, was the same that had been regularly advanced in support of the policy of all regulating laws. It was right to attend to the interests of the weavers as well as to those of the buyers; but he could not approve of so many penal regulations. This doctrine of protecting purchasers was founded on the mistaken views of the motives that influenced all men who depended upon their industry for their bread. The necessity of securing purchasers, was a certain inducement to fairness and honesty, and was quite a sufficient guarantee against all frauds. Purchasers had it always in their power to protect themselves against dishonesty; and no better course could be taken by the legislature than leaving every thing upon the wholesome saying of "caveat emptor."
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he was of opinion, that the numerous laws for regulating the linen trade of Ireland were no longer necessary. There were upwards of three hundred regulations for the managing of the making, packing, and selling of yarn and linen. Similar laws had existed in Scotland, but were repealed last year; and every one concerned in the Scotch manufacture, allowed that the repeal had been attended with advantage to the trade. These numerous laws were not only attended with vexation to the weavers and spinners, but were the source of frauds being practised
 1307
 Sir J. Newport  was also at a loss to know why, because this item of expenditure had amounted to a certain sum in the last year, it was to be estimated as amounting to exactly the same sum in the present.
 Sir John Newport  rose to suggest a mode of diminishing this grant. A funded debt had been created most improperly; and now, instead of paying interest at the rate of 6 per cent, they might raise an advantageous loan, by which means a considerable saving might be effected.
 Sir J. Newport  thought it more than questionable whether the Crown had the power to grant patents for the supply of articles for the public service. The effect of this system, which was a remnant of the monopoly abuse of the reign of Elizabeth, was, that we were paying 16½ per cent for stationery in Ireland, more than we paid for it in England. What advantage it was to Ireland that the paper consumed there should come from England, he did not well understand. If the clerks in Ireland made shift to write upon Irish paper, it would, be to say the least of it, quite as well.
 Sir John Newport  urged the necessity of making the Linen Board a more efficient body.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that by the measure of the Union, England had withdrawn from Ireland her wealth and capital; and it should not be forgotten, that many of the institutions in this country, which boasted of their ability to exist without a public grant, received large donations from Irish noblemen and gentlemen resi-
 1298
 Sir J. Newport  said, that the original object of this Institution did not involve the establishment of a botanical garden. The grant ought not to be confined to Cork, but should be extended in succession, to other provincial towns. Belfast, for instance, would have good reason to complain, if Cork enjoyed this parliamentary bounty exclusively.
 Mr. Hutchinson  called the attention of the chancellor of the Exchequer to the strong impression made by this measure in the neighbourhood of Cork. Those
 1310
 Sir R. Fergusson  trusted, that the chancellor of the Exchequer would persevere in his intention with respect to the abolition of the bounties. The manufacturers of Scotland were persuaded that the linen trade could support itself without the bounties.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that in Scotland the manufacturers had enjoyed the benefit of the bounty so long, that they were now out of danger; but the question was, bad not the bounty contributed to the placing them in that state? How long had the manufacturers of Scotland been in such a state, that they could disregard the bounty? Bounties, no doubt, were bad in principle; but, when persons had been induced, under the faith of them, to invest their capital in an infant manufacture—when, by means of the manufacture so encouraged, districts had been preserved in tranquillity in the midst of disturbed counties, and when it was most important to the tranquillity of Ireland to provide, even at some expense, for the occupation of its large population, it was worthy of consideration, whether they should repeal them at the present moment.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  said, that the supporters of the bounty did not contend for its indefinite continuance, but for its continuance at the present time, on account of the infant state of the trade, and of the particular circumstances of the part of Ireland where it was fostered.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that if he could persuade himself, that the course recommended would promote the real welfare of Ireland, he should be ready to sacrifice a rigid adherence to sound principles to the consideration of the peculiar circumstances of the case. He could not, however, bring himself to believe, that any abstinence on the part of government in dealing with these bounties would be productive of advantage to Ireland. The announcement of the intention of ministers in this respect might have produced some alarm and inconvenience; but he was satisfied that nothing was more likely ultimately to prejudice the extension of the linen trade of Ireland, than the continuance of the existing bounties. His proposition was, that they should be reduced gradually, at the rate of one fifth every year; thus accommodating his plan, in a degree, to the wishes of the petitioners. The reduction was to commence in January 1825.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that by the discussion that had taken place on this subject, he was placed in the difficult situation of having his silence and his declarations alike misconstrued. If, however, there had been any inconvenience resulting to the trade from the expectations existing respecting the remission of the Wine duties, he could say that the gentlemen engaged in that trade had gratuitously and entirely brought the inconvenience on themselves. Nothing which he had said in that House, nor in his communication with those gentlemen, from whom he had derived most valuable information, could have justified an expectation that the matter was to be taken up by him, at least as a matter of course. He had, it was true, never disguised the opinion which he entertained, that the productiveness of the duties was not commensurate with the rate of them, and that therefore a prima facie case was made out, why those duties should be reduced; but he had always persevered in reserving the expression of an opinion as to the fit time for altering them. It was to be recollected, that in touching these duties, they were affecting a very material branch of revenue; and though in time the increase of consumption might make up the loss to the revenue, there was no doubt, that, from the allowance that would be necessarily made on stock in hand, there would be, for the time, a considerable loss. At that moment, therefore, when they were dealing with other branches of the revenue, and making, in various ways, a considerable sacrifice, he considered himself justified in withholding any expression of his opinion on the subject. Government could not do every thing at once; and even if they could suffer the loss arising to the revenue, it would not be desirable, by so general a change, to throw all trade into confusion.
 Mr. Calcraft  presented a petition from the retail silk dealers of Westminster, praying that their claims for compensation-might be considered. These petitioners stood in a situation of peculiar hardship, and he trusted their claims would be taken into consideration by the right hon. gentleman opposite. Most of these retail dealers had large pieces of silk on hand, to the extent of 160, 170, or 180 yards, from which what was technically called the fag-end, consisting of a piece of two or three inches appended to a small portion of the silk, had been cut, as a pattern to show their customers. Now, whatever might be the dimensions or the value of a piece of silk, if a small portion at the fagg-end were cut off in this way, the whole was considered as a cut piece, and the holder was consequently precluded from availing himself of the drawback to which he was entitled for uncut pieces of silk. In many cases, retail traders would not, from this cause, receive one-fourth of the allowance to which they were equitably entitled. The only answer which had been urged against granting compensation to the petitioners was, that it was not usual to make allowances to retail dealers, but it should be recollected, that it was competent to these retail dealers to deliver their goods into the
 1313 d s l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought that, as the House was shortly going into the committee on the silk trade, it would be better to reserve the discussion of this subject for that committee.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he had been instructed by that part of his constituents interested in this measure, to support the prayer of the petition. He begged to observe that, up to Friday last, the petitioners were wholly unaware that the provisions of the act would have such an operation. They were anxious that the whole subject should be discussed, and he was quite sure, that when that discussion took place, the right hon. gentleman would see the fairness of their claims, and be ready to accede to them. As two classes of traders had received compensation, it would be extremely hard on these petitioners, if an allowance were not extended to them. He approved of the general principles of the proposed measure; at the same time he thought the claims of these petitioners justly entitled to the equitable consideration of the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Harrison  opened their case. He recited the various acts of parliament by which the trade had, up to the present time, been regulated and maintained that the present was not a proper period for altering the laws by which the silk manufacture was protected, because the manufacturers in this country possessed none of the advantages which were essen-
 1314 1315 1316 1317
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then informed the committee, that the next clause was that to which the petition presented by the hon. member for Wareham particularly adverted. The clause was as follows:—"And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for any person to bring and deposit, on or before the said 25th day of March, 1824, in any warehouse to be approved of by the commissioners of Customs, any raw silk, or any thrown silk, on which the duties of Customs shall have been paid (not being less in quantity than three hundred pounds weight), there to be kept and received in such manner as the commissioners of Customs shall direct, until after the said twenty-fifth day of March, 1824." Such was the provision of the bill as it now stood. The committee therefore perceived, that there was no specific provision between cut and uncut goods, and that no quantity under 300 lbs 1318
 Mr. Calcraft  expressed his satisfaction at the very frank manner in which the chancellor of the Exchequer had met the objection to which he had alluded, when he presented the petition from the mercers of Westminster that evening. That attention and promptitude were in unison with the right hon. gentleman's general conduct whenever the interests of any part of the community were concerned, and reflected the greatest credit upon him. He, therefore, did not despair, that having gone so far to relieve the great body of the trade in question, the right hon. gentleman would proceed a step further. If he would grant the drawback to cut pieces of silk of thirty yards, he would afford great relief to the dealers, and by so doing put an end to every complaint.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  hoped, that the relief would be general, and extend to the whole of the retail trade, whether in town or country. He suggested to the chancellor of the Exchequer, that it was the practice of the silk trade to get pieces cut from the loom, and that, as the provision now stood, the relief of drawbacks would not be applicable to such pieces.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  adverted to the exaggerated impression that had been circulated abroad with respect to the a-mount of these drawbacks. It had been stated most erroneously at a million. He had been informed by a very eminent person in the silk line, on whose veracity he could repose the fullest confidence, that it would not exceed from 250.000 l l 1319 l
 Mr. Baring  professed himself at a loss to comprehend what the hon. member for Weymouth meant by advising the chancellor of the Exchequer to make a stand. The only object which any man could have in view on this subject Was, to endeavour to do his duty to all parties concerned. With respect to cut pieces, it ought to be recollected, that a great portion of the stock of the country dealer consisted of cut pieces. And where would be the greater difficulty of making a return of the duty on cut pieces of thirty yards in length, when sent to the warehouses, than on whole pieces? To limit the measure to cut pieces of that length would exclude all scraps, remnants, &c. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would not adhere so rigidly to his principles as to deny this concession. He strongly recommended also, that the valuation of the duty to be allowed as drawback might take place in the shops of the dealers in silk. The country dealers declared that nothing could be more easy than for the excise officers in the different towns to take the stock of the dealers in silk at their respective shops. Such a proceeding would save much of the trouble and inconvenience that must result from sending the goods to the warehouses.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the paramount difficulty in this, case had been, to carry the principle into effect with as little inconvenience as possible to the dealers. If the suggestion of the hon. gentleman were adopted, government would be obliged to send Custom-house officers to every town in the kingdom, and heaven knew where they were to find them? Officers had been sent to Nottingham, because the silk-manufacture was carried on there, and they had also been stationed at all the sea-ports. Persons, therefore, who were included in his amendment, would naturally find their way to the officers at the nearest station. With regard to the amendment, it was quite clear that the further the principle of remitting duty was pushed, the more would the difficulties in carrying the measure into execution be multiplied. He therefore felt it his duty to oppose it.
 Mr. Philips  supported the amendment.
 Mr. R. Smith  expressed his doubts, how far it would be practicable to ascertain that pieces professing to be cut merely for exhibiting patterns, had not been cut for sale.
 Mr. Herries  observed, that in the first place there was the declaration of the dealer; from which, if doubted, there would be an appeal to the officer. But the fact was, that the general length of the pieces was well known. If the amendment were adopted, every piece must be measured, which would be productive of the greatest trouble and inconvenience.
 Mr. Calcraft  remarked, that the trouble and inconvenience would be on the part of the owner of the goods. If he thought they would not be compensated by the allowance, he would not undergo them.
 Mr. Baring  begged to be allowed to say a few parting words. The committee had heard, in a speech from counsel, which to him seemed to be most satisfactory and impressive, although he was sorry to observe that it did not appear to have produced much effect on the committee, that the manufacturers were decidedly of opinion, that the period at which the competition of foreign manufacturers was to be admitted was much too early. With a view of recording his opinion, rather than with any hope of inducing the committee to adopt his proposition, he should move as an amendment, to substitute "the fifth of July 1829," for the words, "the fifth of July 1826;" thereby complying with the wish expressed to that House by a number of petitioners on the subject. Even supposing the measure a right one, those who were deeply interested in it conceived that five years were indispensable to enable them to meet (if meet they could) the competition with which they were threatened. With regard to the policy of choosing the silk trade as that on which this first experiment of liberal commercial policy was to be tried, he could not help remarking, that it seemed somewhat extraordinary, while the linen and woollen and other trades were allowed to remain untouched, that his majesty's government should select, for the purpose, of making
 1323 1324
 Mr. R. Gordon  said, he could not help remarking that many of the advocates for free trade drew a very strange distinction. They were all friends, cordial friends, to the principle of free trade; but, the moment any particular measure was attempted, which affected their interests, or the interests of their constituents, the principle of free trade was opposed without any hesitation. He had often heard the hon. gentleman who spoke last, quote Adam Smith with 'applause, though he was now disposed to cavil with the political economists.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not wish to prolong the discussion, but there were some observations in the speech of the hon. member for Taunton, to which he was desirous to offer some reply. The hon. gentleman wished the House to understand that there was no acquiescence on the part of the trade to this measure, and had alluded to a letter from the manufacturers at Derby, to shew that their opinions were unfavourable to the experiment. With the permission of the House he also would read a letter which he had received from the trade established in Derby, in which they enclosed a copy of the letter quoted by the hon. gentleman and sent to the committee in London. In that letter it was stated, that though a few of the body in that
 1325
 Mr. Baring  repeated, that those who consented to the measure were misled by a desire for the present bounties.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, that the argument of the hon. member went to an extraordinary length. According to him, the chancellor of the Exchequer ought to adhere to his first proposition, be it good or bad. The hon. member ought, however, to recollect, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had already altered his plan. The importation of foreign silk was to have commenced on the 5th of July, 1824; but the right hon. gentleman had reconsidered the matter; and, in conformity with representations which had been made to him on the subject, the importation of foreign silk was postponed till July 1826. Such evil counsel as had been given by the hon. member was sufficient to corrupt even a chancellor of the Exchequer. The hon. member said, that at present, the mercer could afford, on large orders, to give up 3 d d d d
 Mr. Philips  said, that the silk trade had not been improved, in point of machinery like other trades, because it had wanted the stimulus of competition. He had observed, that up to a very late period, the towns in Cheshire and Stafford shire, where this manufactory was established, had not in-
 1327 d d
 Mr. Wynn  explained the conduct of the Board of Control in having refused the application of a young gentleman, spoken to on a previous evening, to be allowed to go out to the East Indies to trade in silks. He knew positively that no such application had ever been made. An application had indeed been made to permit a clerk to go to the house of Palmer and company, which was refused; but no application whatever had been made to allow a clerk to go out for the special purpose of promoting the silk trade.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  was for postponing the operation of the measure till October, so as to secure the manufacturers and dealers in the transactions of the summer trade.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that first of all he had intended that the 5th of January 1828, should be the period; but, on communicating with the trade, they had suggested the 5th of July, to which he had acceded, and they had expressed themselves satisfied. New they asked for three months more; and he had no doubt, if that were granted, that they would then wish for another three months to get rid of their winter stock, as they now wanted to get rid of their summer stock. The hon. member had stated no sufficient reason why his request should be acceded to; and he therefore should adhere to the period now fixed.
 Lord A. Hamilton  observed, that the statement of the hon. member who had just sat down went to justify the chancellor of the Exchequer in removing all bounties whatsoever. He did not think the regulation now proposed was of such a nature as would effect the whole object which the right hon. gentleman intended. He ought to lay down some principle, some distinctive line, and to abide by it. He said he would admit cut articles to draw the bounty. Now, he asked whether there was any specific quantity up to which he would allow the bounty to be paid?
 Mr. Ellice  then rose to call the attention of the chancellor of the Exchequer to what he had before suggested, and to ask, if it would not be possible to postpone the time till October 1826.
 Mr. Ellice  asked the chancellor of the Exchequer, if it would not be possible to extend the period from July to October, 1826, as that would give the trade the benefit of a whole year? Like the hon. member for Staffordshire, he was instructed not to consent to the compromise recommended by the hon. member for Taunton. It was his opinion, that we might, in a short time, successfully compete with France. In some branches we were certainly behind that country; but he had no doubt, if the principles of free trade were extended to the necessaries of life, that we should in a short time, be able to surpass her.
 Mr. Littleton,  on behalf of the silk trade of Staffordshire, disowned any participation in the compromise offered by the hon. member for Taunton; not that the manufacturers would object to the extension of time, if given to them, but they would not give up the remission of duties promised them to obtain it.
 Mr. Agar Ellis  observed, that what was contemplated, was rather a hard measure upon the South of Ireland. In the north, toe bounty had operated for thirty years, and had been roost beneficial; and it was still required in the South, to encourage a growing manufacture.
 Mr. Agar Ellis  presented a petition from Tipperary, against the proposed plan for taking away the Bounties upon Linen. Seeing the chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, he wished to ask him whether it was not possible to defer the measure in contemplation for ten years? Nobody was more in favour of a liberal system of trade than he was; but there was an obvious difference between the situation of England and Ireland, and in legislating for both countries that difference ought never to be lost sight of. There was little or no capital in Ireland; and the slightest check to the coarse linen trade would be fatal to it, in its present comparatively infant state.
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  thought the letter read by the chancellor of the Exchequer of little consequence, as Manchester was not a large silk manufacturing place.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, he was ready to take his share of the obloquy which might attach to those who opposed the present measure. In the reply of the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer, he had not heard one word as to the essential point, whether the period was to be postponed from the year 1826 to the year 1829 or not. He looked at this question principally with a view to the interests of the labouring classes, who were the people most concerned. This experiment of a free trade had been already tried. In 1761 the prohibitions had been repealed for five years; but, at the end of that time, such a quantity of misery had resulted therefrom, that they were again imposed, and were afterwards
 1326 l l l
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  presented a petition from that part of the united kingdom, where there was the most condensed population employed in manufactures—the parish of Bethnalgreen. That parish contained 50,000 people, dependent on the silk manufacture for support. The petition was signed by 7,000 persons all housekeepers, who stated that they apprehended their entire ruin from the abolition of the restrictions on the importation of Foreign silks. They expressed themselves in temperate language, thanked the House and the chancellor of the Exchequer for the postponement of the day of their destruction till 1826, and prayed that it might be further postponed till 1829.
 Mr. Warre  said, he did not ask the chancellor of the Exchequer to look at the subject with a view to any relief to
 1311
 Mr. Birch  was of opinion, that the relief intended to be given by this clause would be useful only to the dealer, and not to the public.
 Mr. Hume  assured the hon. member for Taunton, that his fears as to our being deficient in point of machinery were wholly groundless. He had lately seen evidence to prove that, in every branch except the silk trade, our machinery was decidedly superior to that of every nation in Europe: and he was quite convinced, that we were behind in this particular branch, only in consequence of the restraints and shackles which had been imposed on that trade. He trusted that the chancellor of the Exchequer would proceed steadily in his project.
 Mr. Hume  then moved to add the following words, "or to pieces, being cut, of not less than thirty yards in length."
 Mr. Wallace  apprehended, that if the Committee once departed from the definite principle, as laid down in the suggestion of his right hon. friend, namely, to limit the drawback to pieces uncut, or such as were cut merely for the exhibiting of patterns, a very undue preference would be given to the dealer in London, and denied to the dealer in the country. With the latter description, the stock on hand consisted of cut pieces under thirty yards; and on what principle could relief, if afforded to the London mercer, be denied to them? The best principle was, to refuse the bounties altogether to pieces cut for the purposes of sale.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that if the subject
 1312
 Mr. T. Wilson  presented a petition from the importers and dealers, praying for the reduction of the Duties on Wine. In doing so, he wished to ask the chancellor of the Exchequer whether it was his intention to move at all in the question during the present session; because, from the uncertainty prevailing on the subject, no business at all was doing in this commodity?
 Mr. Haldimand  explained, that it was not expedient to send out a clerk for this special purpose, as it added much to the expense. He thought our advantages were greater than those possessed by France. The silk of Italy might be brought from that country at an expense which was very trifling compared to its value. We derived great advantages from our trade with India; and he had no doubt that, in a few years, we should export India silk both to France and Italy. He was Convinced, that the stimulus now to be given to the silk trade would, in a short time, make our machinery superior to that of France. The silk merchants, who trade on commission, did not wish for an extension of time. He had received a letter from some of them, begging
 1328
 Mr. W. Williams  said, that the hon. member for Nottingham was not at all inconsistent in the argument he had used. His assertion was, that the drawback would be of no service to the public, but would benefit the mercer, who would put the amount in his pocket. He was precisely of the same opinion. The mercer's profit was at present so considerable, that on large orders he could abate 3 d. d 1320
 Mr. W. Williams  said, he had never argued, that the chancellor of the Exchequer should persist in a measure when once brought in, whether it was right or wrong. He had stated, and he would again state, that the right hon. gentleman had anxiously attended to all parties. He had conceded more than enough; and the more he conceded, the more would be demanded. He should be ashamed of himself if he acted like some of those gentlemen who were continually goading ministers to adopt the principle of free and unfettered trade, but who, the moment an attempt was made to act upon that principle, immediately turned round and thwarted the experiment by every means in their power. He believed the measures proposed by ministers were calculated to serve the best interests of the country; and impressed with that feeling, he should be ashamed of himself if he did not give them his humble but strenuous support. 1321
 Sir John Newport  objected to any thing like a rapid reduction of the bounties. They ought to be preserved as long as possible.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that he rose for the purpose of discharging a duty which he considered to be imposed upon him as a minister of the Crown. His object was, to request that parliament would continue to the executive government, the possession of those powers which they already enjoyed, with respect to Aliens arriving into and residing in this country. In doing this, he felt that he laboured under some embarrassment, the nature of which must suggest itself to every gentleman who heard him. Of late years, the subject had undergone repeated and detailed discussion, and it was probable that every argument in favour of and against the measure was familiar to the minds of the majority of the members present. He was, on the one hand, reluctant to weary the attention of the House by the repetition of arguments with which they were well acquainted; whilst, on the other hand, he was still more reluctant to have it supposed, that he passed over the question in silence, because he considered it a matter of indifference, and not deserving of particular notice. He would therefore prefer to subject himself to the embarrassment occasioned by pursuing the former course, and proceed, certainly as briefly as he could, to state the grounds upon which he proposed to continue the Alien Act, hoping that those gentlemen who considered that he was unnecessarily occupying their time, would excuse him, on account of the motives which induced him to do so. 1333 1334 1335 1336 1337 1338 1339 1340 1341 1342 1343
 Mr. Hobhouse  lamented the necessity he was under of following the right hon. gentleman over the beaten track which he had considered himself under the necessity of pursuing. Before he did so, however, he could not help reminding the right hon. gentleman now, as he had done two years ago, that there were many individuals in the House of Commons, who did suppose that when he (the right hon. gentleman) had entered upon his career as one of the first ministers of the Crown, he would have abandoned the renewal of a measure which both in this country and on the continent was looked upon by the best friends of rational liberty, by those who were reckoned the guardians of freedom, as an utter violation of the principles which ought to regulate the government of a free nation. The right hon. gentleman had said, that he was afraid of wearing out the House by trespassing upon their patience, while he recapitulated the arguments so often used in support of this bill. Now, for his own part, he entertained very different apprehensions from those expressed by the right hon. gentleman; for he rather feared that his friends who surrounded him, wearied out by a long and hopeless defence of the constitution of the country—a constitution the validity of which, until of late times, was never doubted—would be-
 1344 1345 1346 1347 1348 1349 1350 1351 1352 1353 1354 1355 1356
 Mr. Wynn  rose, to say a few words upon this bill, in consequence of the allusions which the hon. member for Westminster had made to a speech which he had formerly delivered in opposition to it. He contended, that as the circumstances of England at that time and at the present were widely different from each other, there was no inconsistency in his voting against it at that time, and in his voting for it at the present, especially as a clause was now introduced into it, which obviated a great many of his former objections. Of the Alien bill, with all its severe enactments, he had always been a supporter during the war; because he conceived it to be a measure which was required by paramount necessity. He had never, however, supported it on the plea, that the powers which it granted belonged, as matter of prerogative, to the Crown. He did not formerly believe, nor did he now believe, in the existence of any such prerogative; on the contrary, he was convinced, that this bill would never have been submitted to parliament, if the existence of such a prerogative, or the exercise of it, could have been satisfactorily made out by legal evidence. During the period of the French Revolution, such a measure was unquestionably requisite; but he had considered, that the necessity of its continuance had expired with the revolution. An alarm was naturally enough excited, in 1793, when France began to assume those appearances which the hon. gentleman seemed desirous to have introduced into this country [No, no!]. He contended, that the arguments of the hon. member would go that length. The hon. member had quoted a passage from a speech, which he (Mr. W.) had
 1357 1358
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to make provision for the better conduct of the Fisheries on the Banks of Newfoundland, and to consolidate into one act the statutes in force regarding them. The hon. member observed, that this was but a small part of the general bill which had, in the course of last session, been introduced with respect to that colony, and which had been printed for the information of members. That bill, which the House was aware had not been passed, was divided into five different beads. The first related to a revision of the courts of justice in the colony; the second had reference to questions of insolvency; the third contained clauses with respect to marriages; the fourth was for the internal regulation and management of the town of St. John's; and the last was for the consolidation of the several statutes on the subject of the fisheries. The last part was the only one to which the bill now proposed to be brought in would refer. The other parts would be formed into a separate bill, which would originate with the House of Lords. As the object of the bill was so limited, he did not think it necessary to take up further time on the subject, or to go into any details upon the other parts, which would come more properly when they were before the House.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he could not allow the House to divide until he had answered some of the observations of the hon. member for Hertfordshire. Until that night he had not imagined that the House of Commons was so humbled that any hon. member, especially an hon. member who represented a county, and called himself independent, would have had the hardihood to rise in his place and read a lecture to the House, because, forsooth, many of its members had, for years past, felt it their duty to use the strongest language which they could command, in reprobation of the miscalled Holy Alliance, for the perfect iniquity of their hostility against the liberties of mankind. He, with others, had again and again raised his voice as high as he could in reprobation of their acts; and, if he could command the talents of the hon. member for Hertfordshire—talents which the hon. member had that night abused—he would devote those talents solely to their reprobation. No language could possibly be too strong, when speaking of the conduct of the continental sovereigns. He repeated, that if the hon. member would lend him his eloquence, he would instantly apply it in their reprobation. Although he, and those who thought with him on the subject, had not found the House of Commons to go the full length of their condemnation of the conduct of the Holy Alliance, he hoped they were not so mean and so subjugated as to receive the hon. gentleman's
 1372
 Mr. Hutchinson  resumed. He would only say, that his impression had been this—that he should have left the House a disgraced man, if he had left it without joining his noble friend in reprobating the comments which the hon. gentleman had applied to the sentiments expressed by those who condemned the late war, and who, he trusted in his heart, would continue to condemn it. But was the hon. gentleman so infatuated as to think that matters could remain as they stood at present? Though Spain was prostrate now, was it likely that she would lie prostrate long? And if she did, was there any safety, any hope, for the liberties of England? The hon. gentleman spoke of strong language. He (Mr. H.) had used as strong epithets in speaking of the conduct of the Holy Alliance as any member of the House. He desired to be considered, at the then moment, as repeating every one of them; and he only forbore to repeat them from a consideration for the valuable time which he was occupying. He had over and over again called them tyrants, and he now called them tyrants once more. The present bill should have his opposition in every stage; because he considered it unnecessary to the protection of this country. It was, in fact, a part of that system of tyranny which the Holy Alliance exerted all their influence and power to promote. Though there might be periods when the government of this country
 1373
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he should not I avail himself to any extent of the privilege of reply. There were now two questions before the House: his own proposition for leave to bring in the bill as already described, and the amendment of
 1375 1376
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that the hon. gentleman had such a winning way, that notwithstanding temporary indisposition which oppressed him, and the determination he had formed, he could not refrain from rising in answer to his solicitations. He did not intend to detain the House at present, but would save himself for the next stage of the bill, at which time he would express his opinions respecting it more at large. But, for the satisfaction of the hon. gentleman, he would say, that, under present circumstances, and especially with that modification which had been introduced into the bill by his right hon. friend respecting it, he did think this bill ought to pass. As for the principle which had been brought into debate; namely, the right of governments to settle the conditions of residence to be allowed or refused to foreigners, he would wave the discussion
 1381
 Mr. Bankes,  rose, to move for a committee to inquire into the state of the Courts now erecting in Westminster hall. Whoever brought forward a proposition in parliament, was bound, not only to support his own reasons, but to anticipate those of his opponents. In the first place, the present was only a motion to inquire. If the objections which he took to the taste and order of those buildings should
 1382
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  said, he found himself on the present occasion in rather a novel situation. It was usually his lot to have to propose to the House the expenditure of the public money; but now it became his duty to state the reasons for not thinking it expedient to acquiesce in the motion which had been made by his hon. friend. In the first place, he thought the individual by whom the building was executed had been severely dealt with. That gentleman had been called upon to furnish a design, and to carry it into effect, under circumstances which left him little latitude for the display of his taste. It would be remembered, that some years ago, the decoration of the metropolis was not contemplated by the House. Even upon the occasion of a vote for the purchase of that magnificent collection of the remains of ancient art, which was now confessed to be one of the most splendid and valuable ornaments of the country, great opposition was manifested. It was said, that the burthens of the people should be relieved, before the public money should be applied to any such purposes. That feeling had by no means ceased to operate, when the design for the new courts was ordered, and it was therefore too much to assume that either the government, or the individual by whom the design was made, were to be blamed for what had been done under circumstances which prevented them
 1383
 Mr. G. Bankes,  wished it to be understood, that in voting for the appointment of a committee, he had no intention of casting the slightest imputation upon the professional character of Mr. Soane. Having lived for a considerable time in foreign countries, he was occasionally called upon to shew the public buildings of the metropolis to foreign visitors. In inspecting
 1384
 Sir C. Long  said, he had long been acquainted with Mr. Soane, who, in his profession, was a man of great merit indeed. All persons differed in matters of taste;
 1385
 Lord G. Cavendish  was of opinion, that the mere circumstance, admitted on all sides, that the buildings were not approved of, was sufficient to induce the House to enter into the proposed inquiry, not, however, pledging themselves to go any further.
 Lord John Russell  said, it was with extreme surprise he had heard the speech of his hon. friend: because the whole tenor of that address had been totally hostile to the spirit of the British constitution, and utterly subversive of that freedom of speech which they ranked amongst their most valued privileges. They were told by his hon. friend, that those who spoke of the Holy Alliance, or of the allied sovereigns, ought to speak of them in measured terms. They were told, that it was not wise to offend them; and that personal remarks might produce unpleasant consequences. But his hon. friend, who thought it not right to insult those who were at the head of armies, had felt no compunction in blaming the unfortunate Spaniards, who were now reduced to a state of misery and distress, which ought to have excited commiseration, if not a nobler feeling. He would ask whether there was any man in that House who believed that the indignation of the Spaniards against their government had been roused by
 1369 1370 1371
 Colonel Trench  insisted, that the building in question was odious and obnoxious, and for this reason he would support the motion.
 Mr. Agar Ellis  seconded the motion.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  thought, from what had been stated about rabbits in the petition that the petitioner could not have
 1331
 Mr. Pelham  spoke in favour of the measure, and maintained, that very injurious consequences would have resulted if the Alien bill had not been in existence during the late-war.
 Mr. Warre  said, he was not prepared to vote for the resolution of the hon. member for Westminster, though he concurred with his noble friend, in the regret he had expressed at that part of the speech of the hon. member for Hertfordshire, which alluded to what he had called the democratic party in Europe. He would ask the hon. gentleman, whether it was not that very democratic party which had given spirit and efficiency to the army of Europe in 1813, and to the series of exploits which led to the fall of Paris? He would further appeal to facts, whether the democratic spirit had taken the mischievous turn ascribed to it, until the allied sovereigns had manifested a disposition to break faith with the people to whose energies they had been indebted for victory? If the hon. gentleman wanted historical facts, he would refer him to the edicts of Prussia, in which the divine right of kings had been openly asserted, and to the manifestoes of the combined sovereigns, in which the same
 1374
 Mr. Hume  protested against the principle which seemed now about to be established, of driving from the country every unfortunate individual who might happen to have incurred danger by too eager a defence of the liberties of his own country; and against the government, by this
 1377 1378 1379 1380
 Mr. Hume,  on presenting a petition from the minister, elders, deacons, and members of the Scots Church, in Well street, Mary-la-bonne, against the continuance of Slavery in the West Indies, observed, that he intended to take an opportunity, upon some open day, of submitting a motion to the House, the object of which would be, to pledge the House, if possible, not to proceed to any measures of emancipation of the negro slaves, infringing upon or endangering private property, without affording recompence or compensation to the holders. Vicious as the system of slavery
 1332
 Mr. Hume  hoped that this good at least would spring out of the question before the House—that a rule would be adopted in future, by which no public buildings should be commenced until they had been submitted to a committee of the House. In the present state of the buildings, he did not think it would be prudent to pull them down, because, if once the House began to pull down buildings that were not in good taste, they ought to do the same by the front of the House of Lords; and no one knew where they would stop. With regard to Mr. Soane, it was agreed by all who knew him, that he was a sincere lover of the arts. His public and private reputation were highly honourable; and he therefore regretted that imputations should have been cast upon him. If this motion were pressed to a division, he should certainly vote with the chancellor of the Exchequer against the committee.
 Mr. James  rose to present a petition from Mr. William Cobbett, against this bill. The hon. member observed, that this new Game bill made a species of property of a vast variety of wild fowl, which were never before considered to be property. The hon. member for Yorkshire seemed to have omitted scarcely a single bird except the wild goose; which it was to be presumed he had left out from reverence to the immortal Shakspeare, who had said, that "the wild goose soars aloft, unclaimed of any man." The petitioner prayed, not only that the pending bill might be repealed, but that the House might be radically reformed. 1330
 Mr. W. Lamb  spoke to order. He said, he had distinctly reprobated the conduct of France towards Spain.
 Mr. William Lamb,  after adverting to the policy of this country, from the time of the Reformation to the seven years war, during which entire period so little favourable was she to the indiscriminate visit of foreigners, that her great object was, to set all the Protestants of Europe in a league against the Catholics—a measure which, he contended, was reasonable in itself, and founded on a policy which, though necessarily liable to fluctuate with circumstances, had in view the best interests of the country—proceeded to advert to the arguments against the present bill, which the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough had derived from historical analogy, nothing, he observed, was so unsafe, nothing so uncertain—in reasoning, as analogy; but, if any one thing could be more unsafe and more uncertain than another, it was historical analogy. It was impossible to know the circumstances precisely as they existed; and therefore it became very easy to depreciate what was done at this time, or what was done at that time, and to scatter sarcasm and invective on affairs, that probably were entitled to be very differently treated. The hon. member for Westminster had taken a very
 1366 1367 1368
 Mr. W. Williams  thought it was possible to find a convenient place for the erection of courts of law, closely adjoining Westminster-hall which would also do away with the right hon. gentleman's objection.
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose for the purpose of vindicating his legal friends from the charge of impatience which had been made against them by the right hon. gentleman. They had only expressed a desire, that the buildings should be completed for the public convenience. The explanation of the right hon. gentleman had been most satisfactory to him; because it enabled him to give his vote without conveying any imputation on the gentlemen, who had been concerned in the buildings alluded to.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he rose thus early on the present occasion, because the state of his physical strength was at present such as would not permit him to wait for a later hour in which to address the House. He would commence the few observations he had to make, by bearing his testimony to the correctness of the statement which his right hon. friend had just made, respecting the words which he had used in opposing this measure in the year 1816. He recollected his right hon. friend's speech well; and without entering into the merit of it more particularly, would simply observe, that he should avail himself, with great satisfaction, of the assurance which his right hon. friend then made, and had since repeated, that he did not believe that the Crown ever possessed the prerogative, for which another right hon. gentleman was now contending—he meant the prerogative of sending foreigners out of the kingdom at its sole will and pleasure. His right hon. friend said, that there was a wide difference between the situation of the country in 1816, and its present situation in 1824. He acknowledged that there was; but he left it to the House to decide, which of the two years formed the more specious defence for passing an Alien bill; the year 1816 being the first year after the conclusion of the war which had convulsed Europe to its centre, the year 182i being the eighth year of an uninterrupted peace. As he had not seen his right hon. friend in his place, when this measure was under discussion in 1822, he supposed it had then met with his disapprobation. And if it had then met with his disapprobation, he should like to know, why his right hon. friend anticipated more danger from revolutionary principles in 1824, than he had anticipated from them in 1822? The right hon. secretary who had introduced this bill, had put forth a defence of it, which he had Conducted with much dexterity and no little conciliation. He had made great use of a figure of speech called "euphemismus" by grammarians, a figure which consisted in giving agreeable
 1359 1360 hysteron proteron. 1361 1362 1363 espionage 1364 1365
 Lord Althorp  maintained, that nothing but the most urgent necessity could justify the House in granting such a power to his majesty's ministers, as was given by the provisions of this bill. The speech of the right hon. secretary, was an answer to what had been stated on a former occasion, and what he seemed to think was likely to be repeated op the present. Bat what reason had the right hon. gentleman assigned for bringing forward the measure now? Merely that the secretary for foreign affairs might prevent plots from being formed in this country against foreign governments. The sole ground, therefore, upon which the House was required to legislate, was the danger to which foreign countries might otherwise be exposed. But if the law, as it stood, was not sufficient to prevent such plots, why did not ministers bring in a bill to remedy the defects of the existing law, instead of claiming to be invested with arbitrary power? That would have been the constitutional mode of proceeding. He should vote certainly against the bill, and for the amendment, if it was pressed to a division; although he confessed he would rather it had not been proposed. He agreed in the spirit of the amendment entirely; but he thought that some members might be inimical to it, who nevertheless were disposed to give their votes against the general measure. For this reason, he could rather have wished that the hon. member for Westminster had been contented to record his opinion of the conduct of the Holy Alliance in some later stage of the bill, and suffered the short question of "Ay, or no," to be put in the beginning.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that the notice on the subject of these taxes, so generally exclaimed against throughout the country, which he had given for the 29th of April, had been received by the gentlemen on the Treasury bench with a laugh; but he nevertheless begged to be permitted to say a few words on it. The chancellor of the Exchequer had shewn his opinion of the equality of taxation. No sooner had the tax on windows been taken off, than the right hon. gentleman had directed the board of taxes to send their surveyors to report on the real value of houses, which would be equivalent to an increase in the amount of 25 per cent on the House tax. The right hon. gentleman seemed to have been particularly unhappy in his financial propositions for the present year. He seemed to have cast about, how best to throw away the public money. As for the 900,000 l. l. 1396
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he felt himself compelled to say a few words, though certainly not with a view of entering into discussion of any of the various topics which the hon. member had somewhat unseasonably introduced. Of the charge of unmannerly treatment which the hon. gentleman thought proper to bring against him, he was totally unconscious. If there had been any smile on his side of the House, he was unconscious of having participated in it. The smile, if there had been one, was probably excited by the circumstance of the hon. member having selected for his motion a day on which there would be no House; namely, his majesty's birth-day. If the hon. member meant to charge him with having, on this or on any other occasion, shewn any thing like indifference or disrespect in the discussion of any subject connected with the wants or the wishes of the people, it was a charge to which he could not plead guilty. On the contrary, he believed that on every occasion, as well as on that on which the hon. member for Westminster had brought forward his motion, the tone which he had adopted was directly the reverse of that which the hon. member imputed to him. There was not the slightest foundation, in fact, for the charge. As to the notice which the hon. member had taken of the circular letters sent to surveyors from the Tax-office in consequence of instructions transmitted from the Treasury, he had distinctly stated, that the object of the instructions for re-surveying houses was, to afford an opportunity, if the amount of revenue should be raised by a just and equal assessment, to propose a proportional reduction of the tax. His object was, not to screw more money out of the pockets of the people, but, if possible, to save the money of those who were compelled to pay more than they ought to contribute to the revenue, in consequence of an unequal assessment. In this respect, therefore, as well as in that to which he had just adverted, the hon. member had brought a charge against him for which there was not the slightest foundation.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that he did not mean to charge the right hon. gentleman with any disrespectful levity. If, however, the right hon. gentleman meant to say that
 1397
 Sir T. Lethbridge  hoped the chancellor of the Exchequer would take into his serious consideration the propriety of relieving the country from that most burthensome assessment, the window tax. If the right hon. gentleman was determined not to relieve the country by repealing the window tax this session, he begged leave to suggest to him a mode of relieving the country without taking off the tax. What he would suggest to the right hon. gentleman was, that he would allow all windows which had been stopped up, in consequence of this tax, to be opened. This would create a large demand for glass; and would thus give employment to a number of useful and idustrious individuals who were now out of employ, without any way interfering with the financial arrangements of the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Mr. Cripps  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend and consolidate the Turnpike Acts. The House would recollect, that a highway and turnpike act of enormous length, the latter containing 150 clauses, were enacted in the year 1822. So complicated were the clauses, that it was essentially necessary they should be explained, to enable magistrates properly to comprehend the meaning of the law. There was at present the greatest difficulty upon
 1398 l., s. s.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, he had no wish to take the subject out of the hands of the hon. member, but he should be extremely happy to give him any information which he might be able to communicate. The acts which he (Mr. F. L.) had undertaken to carry through the House, at the express desire of the committee which sat on this subject, contained no less than one hundred and fifty clauses. If they were imperfect, it was not from any want of attention which had been given to the subject; they had occupied his (Mr. F. Lewis's) time and attention during three sessions. He thought the hon. member would fail in his object, if he attempted to combine the Highway acts with the Turnpike road acts. He agreed with the hon. member that it was desirable to consolidate acts for the purpose of shortening them; but the highway acts were themselves extremely long and complicated, and the hon. member would find the difficulty of legislating on this subject greatly increased; by attempting to combine them with the turnpike road acts; Under all the circumstances, he advised the hon. member to withraw his motion.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  entirely approved of the advice given by his hon. friend behind him. He should not now enter into any details, but he would recommend his hon. friend to withdraw his motion for the present, on the ground that we should only have, in another year, to be re-enacting a new measure, and that it would be much preferable to wait until we were in possession of additional information on the subject.
 Mr. Cripps  said, that as a magistrate and a commissioner, before whom repeated complaints had been made of the inconveniences arising from the present laws, he had felt it his duty to come forward, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the hon. member meant to renew the measure he had some time back introduced to the House. However, as it seemed to be the general opinion that it would be preferable to postpone the subject to some future period, he had no objection to withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that though there was no member in that House more impressed with the importance of the question, as it related to the necessity of educating the people of Ireland, yet, after the speeches of the right hon. baronet, and of his honourable friend the secretary for Ireland, he should not have offered a single observation, had it not been for
 1410 1411
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he had no wish whatever to discourage the noble lord, in the pursuit of the object which he had in view; but he really thought that the noble lord had better limit his motion to the particular object which he desired at present to attain. The noble lord now proposed an inquiry into the condition of the labouring poor, generally. It would surely be much better to draw a line, which should define the points to which the committee were to direct their attention. For let the noble lord consider into what a number of classes the labouring poor divided themselves. First, there were the agricultural classes: then, there were those connected with mechanics; then, there were the labouring classes, belonging to towns, not manufacturing; then, there were the manufacturing classes of labourers. As the noble lord's motion now stood, the committee must inquire into the condition of all these classes; although it was clear, from the noble lord's own statement, that his object was, the appointment of a committee to inquire into the practice which prevailed in some parts of the country, of paying the wages of labour out of the poor-rates; and to consider what measures might be effectually adopted for the abolition of such a practice. If the noble lord's motion were to be agreed to as it stood, the committee would be overwhelmed with the multiplicity of its business. Now, nothing could be more unwise than to devolve on any committee of that House too extensive a labour. It was, of all others, the worst mode of obtaining any advantageous result. In any case in which the powers of a committee were found to be too limited, it was very easy to extend them. If the noble lord accepted the words which he had suggested, or would substitute others of similar import, he assured the noble lord, that he would not throw any difficulty in his way; and that he would not hereafter object to any extension of the powers of the committee, should such an extension be deemed advisable.
 Sir J. Sebright  agreed with the noble lord, that the operation of the game laws was unpopular and injurious; but he did not agree with him, as to the causes to which he referred those consequences. He disapproved of the laws, because they confined the enjoyment of game to certain privileged classes, and shut the people at large out from it. A man who was not qualified by being the son of a squire, or
 1417
 Mr. Bernal  wished to know whether, as the bill declared these animals to be the property of the owner of the soil, persons killing them were to be considered as committing a felony?
 Mr. S. Wortley  wished the word "rabbits" to be retained, because the common pretence under which poaching was extensively carried on was, that the persons committing it were in search of rabbits.
 Mr. R. Smith,  thinking that the notions about game were so loose and unsettled, that people did not regard it in the same light as other property, objected that any other penalty should be annexed to the violation of it than attached to ordinary trespassers.
 Mr. S. Wortley  was disposed to give up the words after "grouse."
 Mr. Bernal  repeated his wish to know, whether the carrying away such game as was mentioned in the bill was to be considered as a felony against the owners?
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, that the penalty of 40 s.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  contended, (hat manors were good property. He had known one purchased from government, which had no other, quit rent but 5 l. l. l.
 Mr. Cripps  was hostile to the clause; and wished to know, whether the rights of lords of manors, let them be what they would at present, would not be materially altered if the bill passed.
 Mr. S. Wortley  defended the clause. He thought that the rights, as they existed at present, subject to impediments at every step, were not worth a farthing; and that, on the whole, he had given to lords of manors more than he had taken away by making the game on unenclosed lands property.
 Mr. Bernal  contended, that lords of manors, not being owners of the land, had no right whatever to shoot over it without licence, and that the clause would not materially intrench upon any manorial rights.
 Mr. S. Wortley  held it to be impossible to pass a law making game saleable, and yet leave the right to it in the hands of those who had not contributed to the expense of feeding it.
 Sir. J Sebright  agreed with his hon. friend, that to make game saleable, and retain it in the hands of a privileged class, was what the country would not endure.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that the House ought to pause before they threw open to the great class of the people aright, which, from the numbers, power, and disposition of that class, they never afterwards could recal. He was one of those who considered that a species of property which had been enjoyed for ages, ought not to be lightly dealt with. He did not conceive that the proposed alteration would have the effect of making the gaols less full, or the people more moral, or more contented.
 Lord Binning  said, that the state of things under the game laws was so abominable, that any measure which would afford a chance of escaping from that state he was disposed to consider a benefit. If he were convinced, that legalizing the sale of game, without introducing the principle of property, would prove effectual, he would willingly agree to it; but he could not indulge that hope. He could not help saying, that what had fallen from the hon. member for Yorkshire, had gone a great way to reconcile him to the clause.
 Mr. Bernal  objected to the next clause, as authorizing, in very many cases, a violation of existing contracts between landlords and tenants, where a right of killing game had been reserved to the latter. This clause enacted, "that it should be lawful for the person entitled as owner in fee of any enclosed lands, the same not being in his own possession, but let to others, tenants or tenant, to pursue, kill and destroy game, over such lands, without asking permission of the owner thereof." He should propose to omit the latter part of it.
 Mr. S. Worthy  thought there might be some force in the objection taken, if it were assumed, that landlords were necessarily litigious. But he could not consent to such an amendment; for it was taking the right of shooting from the landlord, and giving it, in effect, to the tenant, solely. The landlord would be placed by it in a much worse situation than he stood at present. He would venture to say, that if this clause were passed, without the words objected to being retained in it, he should be kept off his own land for all purposes of sporting, for several years to come.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  was satisfied of the monstrous injustice which the clause in its present state was calculated to produce. What security had tenants that landlords would behave in so gentlemanly a manner, or in a way so little litigious, as the hon. member for Yorkshire seemed to suppose? Inasmuch, indeed, as this bill would enable all tenants, whether qualified or unqualified, to sport over the land; in their occupation, so far the landlord would be placed in a
 1422
 Colonel Davies  thought there could be no good in holding out any inducement to tenants to quarrel with their landlords. Tenants might as well be at once permitted to sport over the lands they occupied, to the exclusion of the landlord, as landlords be left in the prejudiced situation which this proposition would leave them in.
 Mr. F. Lewis  suggested, that if a tenant were legally qualified to kill game, he ought to be allowed to possess the right, notwithstanding this bill, in any case where it was granted by his lease. The lord of the manor ought to enjoy a concurrent right. A clause, he thought, might be so worded, as to avoid the difficulty at present started.
 Mr. Bernal  could not consent to any compromise like that proposed by the hon. member for Beaumaris.
 Colonel Wood  was of opinion, that if the landlord possessed the right of shooting now, he ought not to be deprived of it. Nevertheless, he supported the amendment, because it was only just to preserve equally the right of the tenant.
 Lord Binning  said, that as the question was intricate, it ought to be left for decision on a future day.
 Mr. S. Worthy  expressed his readiness to postpone the further consideration of the clause until another day. He was satisfied that it ought to be introduced into the bill in its present shape, in order that justice might be done to all parties. He proposed that the Chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.
 Lord John Russell  said, he had no ob-
 1415
 Lord John Russell,  after having presented a petition from Matthew Phillips, civil engineer and surveyor, for an inquiry into the condition of the labouring poor, proceeded to make his promised motion on this subject. The noble lord said, that a committee had sat upon the subject some years ago, of which committee a right hon. gentleman opposite was chairman. In consequence of the report of that committee, a bill had been brought into parliament, and he was free to confess, that in that bill a right course of legislation had been commenced. But, although a right course of legislation was commenced, yet much remained to be done; and more especially with respect to that which, in his present view, ought to be the principal object of the select committee for which he was about to move; namely, the practice which prevailed in some parts of the country of paying the wages of the labourer out of the poor-rates. This was' a practice in every way so indefensible, that it was exceedingly desirable that some measure should be devised to stop such a vagrant system. One of the resolutions which he should have to propose in that committee was, a recommendation to magistrates not to allow, for the future, any portion of the wages of labour to be paid out of the poor-rates by the overseers. There were two modes of proceeding: that of stopping the evil at once, by legislative prohibition; the other mode was that of carrying into effect the provisions of a bill brought in some time ago by the right hon. gentleman for making a distinction between the industrious and de-
 1414
 Mr. Brownlow  said, he was one of those who felt that there was no hope for the prosperity of Ireland, until the most liberal and comprehensive system of educating the great body of its population was acted upon, under the sanction and protection Of his majesty's government. He trusted that few men could be found without the doors of parliament—he hoped not a man had crossed the threshold of that House—
 1412 1413
 Mr. Canning  hoped he might be allowed to say a few words upon the present occasion, though such a proceeding might not be strictly regular. His hon. and learned friend was, of course, at liberty to make, or to postpone, or to withdraw
 1395
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that there was so much of candour and temperance in the speech of the right hon. baronet; he had introduced his most important motion in such a judicious and conciliatory manner, that he only wished that, in returning his thanks to the right hon. baronet, those thanks proceeded from an individual possessing a more prominent station, and higher influence. Most sincerely he concurred with the right hon. baronet as to the importance of the subject; as to the great value of building up a system of amelioration and improvement in Ireland, on the solid foundation of a general system of public education, and by such an exertion placing the humbler classes of the Irish community on a
 1407
 Mr. Goulburn  supported the rights of the lords of manors, which the bill at present did not sufficiently protect.
 Mr. Goulburn  thought the hon. baronet's proposition would defeat the general objects of lords of the manors as to game.
 Mr. Goulburn  objected to the clause, which transferred the right to the game from the lord of the manor to the owner of the land, and instanced his own case. He was lord of a manor, in which he had no land, but was in possession of the tithes, and he had hitherto enjoyed, with the permission of the occupiers, the right of sporting over the whole of the manor j but, by this clause, his situation would be materially altered, and that greatly to his disadvantage. He knew the House
 1419
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  entreated the House to confine its attention to the subject of the clause before them, and not to suffer questions upon the general principle of the bill to be discussed, until the clause should be disposed of. His noble friend's objection had been, he thought, founded in a mistake, because he seemed to suppose, that there was a penalty attached to killing those animals which were now first to be called game. It was not so; but the property of such animals was vested in the owners of the soil on which they were grown or should be found, and persons unlawfully killing them incurred no penalty, but were liable to the conse-
 1418
 Mr. J. Martin  said, he had supported the bill in principle originally; but, if this clause were inserted without amendment, he would vote against the measure in every future stage.
 Mr. Monck  objected to the words "rabbits, wild ducks," and others, describing animals which were not before considered as game. He thought they extended the bill too far; but if they were omitted, he had no objection to the clause.
 Mr. John Smith  said, that particular circumstances had brought to his knowledge facts, which it was his intention to have alluded to on the present discussion; but, after the concession of the hon. secretary for Ireland—a concession which he considered a proof of the liberality of his majesty's government—he should not intrude any statement upon the unanimity of the House. However, he must be permitted to express his surprise, that having heard some years ago, one of the most able and eloquent speeches from the right hon. secretary opposite (Mr. Peel), on the necessity of a comprehensive system of education in Ireland, that nothing had followed such an enlightened recommendation on the part of his majesty's government. At least he might be allowed to say, that the fruits of such apian were not visible, in the increasing tranquillity and good order of the lower classes in that country. For his part—and he said so after the fullest conviction—he could not understand how any government could overlook that great duty it owed the public, by not attending to the instruction of the poor. He would endeavour to establish the cogency of that duty, by a very familiar illustration. We felt it necessary, whether for the purposes of interest or pleasure, to prepare our horses or dogs for the services we expected from them, by a previous discipline aad training. Man alone was left in a state of total ignorance, a prey to his own unruly passions; and yet, strange to say, from him, thus abandoned, we exacted a complete obedience to the ordinances of society. Without previous instruction, he was expected to be subjected to our laws, or he was hanged or transported. So long as he had a voice, he would contend, that a government which withheld instruction from the great class of the people, had no right to make them amenable to its bloody and ferocious code. He should have preferred a committee of that House to investigate the great subject connected with the funds applicable to the education of the Irish people, rather than a commission. In a committee, the House would obtain "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth." A commission, he feared, would never get at the bottom of the subject. But, before a committee, he must be a most able witness who could conceal the truth, from fourteen or fifteen able members adapting their questions to the objects of the investiga-
 1409
 Mr. J. Smith  supported the amendment. If tenants were thus deprived of vested rights, some compensation ought to be given to them.
 Mr. Hume  strongly urged the necessity of a repeal of the assessed taxes, as well as a reduction of the duties on silk and wool.
 Mr. N. Calvert  thought those taxes most objectionable which affected the price of labour, such as the taxes on malt, coals, and candles. If these taxes added 2 s.
 Mr. Evans  approved of the principle in the bill which gave the property in game to the lords of the manor.
 Mr. Peel  much doubted whether it would not be better for his hon. friend, in the first instance, to limit his experiment.
 Mr. Peel  was not prepared to say' whether it would be better to pass the bill with the present clause, or to try the experiment of making the game saleable, leaving the rights of lords of manors as they were; but he wished to see how his hon. friend intended to deal with the new-created rights.
 Sir J. Mackintosh,  in rising to dispose of a notice of a motion which he had caused to be placed on the order-book respecting the States of South America, hoped that the House would allow him to premise a very few sentences. Since he had given notice of his motion, he had heard two important declarations made by the ministers of the Crown. It would be unparliamentary to mention the occasion upon which those declarations were made, the places in which they were made, or the parties from whom they proceeded; and he must therefore be excused for not being more explicit on those points. According, however, to the best of his recollection and understanding, the second of those declarations did expressly state (he did not affect to give the precise words) that any considerable armament from the ports of Spain, during the occupation of that country by the French army, against the South American States would be regarded as not being a Spanish expedition, and consequently as coming within the principle laid down in the closing despatch of
 1394
 Sir J. Shelley  objected to the clause, that the proprietor of the soil could take or kill game upon it, but could not give the right of doing so to another person.
 Sir Shelley  instanced his own case, and argued, that if the clause passed, as it was now worded, he should be ousted of an important right, for which he had paid a considerable sum.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  maintained, that there was no intricacy at all in the point. He was of opinion, that to retain the words would be virtually to give the landlords a power of altering half the leases in the kingdom; for it was as much a matter of course, where there was no express stipulation in the lease to the contrary, for the landlord to concede to the tenant a right of shooting over the land, as of growing upon it crops of wheat, barley, or other corn, or of fishing in any waters that ran through it.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  wished, that on whatever footing the rights of lords of manors at present stood, they should so remain.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  was exceedingly anxious that the sale of game should be permitted, because he well knew it could not be prevented. He, however, only asked now, that the permissive rights which land-owners at present possessed of appointing game-keepers, &c, should be reserved to them.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, that if his hon. friend would pledge his word of honour, that he thought a reduction of duty upon the articles he had named would reduce their price to the poorer classes one halfpenny, he would go hand in hand with him in proposing their repeal.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that considerable improvements had been already made in the turnpike laws. One very material alteration was that of consolidating all the laws on the subject into two acts; and it would have been a still further improvement if they had been all comprised in the act of last session. A considerable portion of practical information had been already obtained, in consequence of the inquiries which had been set on foot; and
 1399
 Sir John Newport  rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a subject of considerable importance, namely, the state of Education in Ireland: and he could assure them, that if he thought it would require any display of eloquence to enforce its necessity, he should most willingly have resigned it to some individual more competent than himself. But he believed that whatever difference of opinion might exist as to the mode of accomplishing the object, there could be but one feeling as to the great and important advantages that must arise from the diffusion of education in Ireland. He should therefore proceed, in the first instance, to state in detail the progress which had been already made; and he should next state the course which it appeared to him advisable to adopt, with a view to render more efficient the funds which parliament had already granted, and the money which had been devoted by private bequests, to accomplish an object of such paramount importance, to
 1400 1401 1402 1403 * l. l. l. * 1404 1405 similarly constituted 1406
 Sir T. Acland  thought it was necessary to give landlords some protection, otherwise they would not be in a better, but in a worse situation. He was inclined to leave the parties as nearly as possible in the state in which they at that moment
 1423
 Lord Milton  could not but think that there was a great interference with the rights of property by the present bill; and that, before the House should so interfere, they ought to be assured of the benefits which were likely to arise from it. He should be ready to agree to it, if any great advantage could be shown to be derived from it; but he thought the operation would be prejudicial, for it would increase, instead of diminish, the grievances of the game laws. The committee were sitting to clear the county gaols from the number of criminals with which they were filled under the game laws. That was the great grievance; but by this bill the number of enclosures would be increased, and consequently the number of persons interested in prosecutions, and he feared the number of offenders, would also be increased.
 Lord Milton  asked whether, if this clause were agreed to, it would preclude the right of making any remarks on the new descriptions of game introduced in it? He observed, in the enumeration contained in the clause, that woodcocks, which were not game by the common law of the land, were made so by the present measure, and that rabbits, quails, and widgeons were also included. This was an enormous extension of the system of the game laws, of which the people of England already complained so justly as a grievance. The object of the bill was, as he conceived, to mitigate that grievance, and to diminish the mass of crime which every man complained of, from one end of the country to the other. It was therefore inconsistent with the object which they professed, to extend the operation of the game laws to a great variety of animals not heretofore included. He objected to the whole clause, and the bill altogether, though he was prepared with no plan of his own upon the subject. On the contrary, what he wanted was, to get rid of legislation. They had already legislated too much on that, as well as on other subjects. By the present bill, they would have half a dozen lords of the manor, where they had but one before. By one of the clauses, every owner of fifty acres of land was to become entitled to all the game which should be found on that land. In other words, it would vest in twenty persons instead of one, that which was not, in its nature capable of being the property of any individual; and thus would increase tenfold all the evils which were found to arise from the game laws. To the principle of legalizing the sale of game, he subscribed; but he did not approve of the mode in which it was proposed to carry that principle into effect, by means of licences. Desirable as it was that the sale of game should be permitted, there was no way in which it could be accomplished, except by taking away all penalties, and ceasing to legislate on the subject.
 Mr. S. Wortley  presented a petition from the wool merchants, manufacturers, and others of Halifax and its neighbourhood, against the exportation of British Wool. He hoped that government would, at least, so far relax the system they were about to adopt, as to allow the parties a protection, in order to enable them to compete with the foreign manufacturer.
 Mr. Secretary Canning,  in moving the third reading of this bill, said, he was desired by his hon. friend, the member for Bramber (Mr. Wilberforce) who was unable to attend from indisposition, to state, how much he regretted that he could not be present on this occasion, to express his joy at what he considered the accomplishment of the great object, for the attainment of which he had so long laboured.
 The Attorney General  said, that he meant to construct a clause in the committee on the bill, which would, he was convinced, obviate all the objections; but he could not frame such a clause, unless his present resolution was agreed to. It was merely to pave the way to such an arrangement that he proposed this resolution. As to the objection, that there would be no limit to the number of claims, no offices would be entitled to compensation, except such as were specifically in-
 1436
 The Attorney-General  said, he certainly did not intend to propose any clause, that would tend to restrict the emoluments of the chief justices.
 The Attorney General  said, that compensation had been rendered necessary by the bill introduced by the noble lord opposite (Althorp), for the regulation of County Courts. He had no intention to throw obstructions in the way of that measure: but if an important public benefit were to be conferred, it ought not to be at the expense of private individuals. Offices in courts of justice were not saleable, generally, by several ancient statutes; but there were exceptions, and by an act of
 1426 l l l 1427 l 1428 l 1429 l l l 1430
 Mr. R. Smith  said, that if compensation were not granted to these officers, they would be placed in a worse situation than if the offices were wholly abolished. In the latter case, they would be able to turn their talents into a different channel, whereas, in the present case, they were left sticking in their offices, while half their emoluments were taken away.
 Mr. Bankes  thought, that, in point of principle, it was just that a fair and adequate compensation should be made to the holders of patent offices, whose incomes might be deteriorated by the effect of any legislative measure. Among the cases, however, which had been cited by his hon. and learned friend, the compensation which had been granted in Ireland appeared to him particularly objectionable, on account of the extravagant terms on which it had been made. He considered that case as one of the grossest abuses of the principle of compensation which had taken place even in Ireland; where there had been so many instances of improvident compensations granted at the time of the Union. Admitting the principle to be just that compensation ought to be made to the holders of patent offices, if the value of the offices were affected by an act of parliament, he thought, at all events, they ought not to legislate before it was ascertained to what extent the profits of offices would be diminished, or whether in point of fact, they would be diminished at all. The resolution proposed by the hon. and learned attorney-general was altogether premature. It would be better to allow the aet to continue in operation for twelve months; by which time its effect on the value of these patent offices would be ascertained, and the House would be in a condition to grant a fair and adequate compensation.
 The Solicitor General  agreed with the hon. member for Corfe Castle, that the amount of compensation could not be ascertained by anticipation; but, they were now discussing the preliminary question, whether any compensation should be granted? He should be ever ready to give his support to any measure which was calculated to effect a reform and an improvement to the administration of public justice, but it was necessary, at the same time, to protect most scrupulously the rights of property. That House was the asylum for reform; but it was also the
 1434
 The Attorney General  said, it was his
 1437
 Lord Allhorp  said, that if compensation were to be granted to any man, no one had a better right to it than this gentleman; since a considerable portion of business would be taken out of his court by the operation of this bill.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  suggested the necessity of having the appointment of the assessors vested in responsible hands. The office of sheriff, annual in the person who held it, was not one to which the
 1438
 The Attorney General  defended the practicability of the suggestion of his right hon. friend. Persons competent to discharge such duties could not be procured under 500 l l
 Mr. R. Smith  suspected that the attorney-general under-estimated the labours of these appointments. He suggested the propriety of the postponement of the clause, in order to allow gentlemen on both sides to give it further consideration.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  instanced the appointments of assessors in Ireland, where experience proved, that those who were removed from all local connexion, discharged the duties the most efficiently.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that having been a member of the committee employed in preparing the bill, he felt, from the first moment, a firm determination not to give to the Crown the appointment of seventy new offices. Indeed, he was much indisposed to open to the bar any increase of offices, in whatever hands the patronage might be placed. But, feeling how much the existing abuses in the administration of the law relative to the recovery of debts stood in need of an efficient corrective, and thinking that the present bill afforded that remedy, he thought it better to damage the integrity of the bar, than allow the existing evils to continue. But, speaking without any inclination to give offence, he did not believe that the vaunted integrity of the bar was in danger by the proposed total of 35,000 l
 Mr. Bernal  said, it was necessary that the assistant barristers, or assessors, should have a competent portion of legal knowledge. It was not unfrequently the case that actions for 10 l
 Mr. Hobhouse  adverted to the petition which he had presented against the bill from a number of his constituents, complaining, that if it were enacted in its present form, they would be subjected to considerable inconvenience and a ruinous expense, since they might be compelled to follow their debtors into the remotest parts of the island. He was anxious that some amendment should be introduced into the bill, by which so serious an evil might be averted; and would therefore propose that the following words should be inserted in this clause:—"And that all such actions shall be brought and prosecuted in the district or districts where the debt is contracted."
 Mr. R. Smith  suggested the addition of the following words, to the proposed amendment,"—"or where the defendant resides."
 Mr. Hobhouse  consented to this addition to his amendment; but, after a few words from the attorney-general, it was agreed that the further consideration of the whole clause should be postponed. On the clause, limiting the debts to be recovered in the County Courts to ten pounds,
 The Attorney-General  observed, that as the bill was an experiment, and was, in fact, a great change in the law, it would, in his opinion, be much better for the present to confine the sum to 10 l
 Mr. Hobhouse  objected, on behalf of his constituents, to the clause which went to contract the period assigned in the statute of limitation.
 The Attorney-General  said, that, in his opinion, the bill as then framed would by no means answer the purpose intended; namely, that of creating courts of summary jurisdiction for small debts. In the first place, it precluded reference, by which the courts of Westminster-hall contrived to get rid of the most perplexing cases of disputed accounts. The process was to be by plaint, instead of the declaration used in the higher courts, which was to be answered by a plea; and both plea and plaint were to be professionally drawn; the suit was to be prepared by solicitors, of course of very low rank and practice, and conducted by counsel. Each case would therefore be open to all the artifices by which causes were perplexed and lengthened in the superior courts, and this by the very lowest practitioners. The bill would be utterly useless in the end, unless the noble lord consented to the introduction of a clause to prevent solicitors and counsel from interfering with the process, and to substitute in their place a power given to the assessors to cross-examine witnesses, and then submit the question to the jury.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that at that period of the night, he should not detain the House for any length of time; but, as it was extremely desirable that the precise nature of the proposition he had to make with respect to these duties should be before the House, and as he could not make that proposition but in a committee, he would avail himself of the present opportunity of so doing. Afterwards, when a bill should have been founded upon the resolution which he had to propose, it would be competent to gentlemen to discuss the subject. What he had then to propose was this; that, instead of repealing the existing duties on wool immediately, or on the 5th of July next, as he had originally intended, the reduction should take place by degrees. He had submitted the proposition to some of those persons who were most interested in the measure, and they considered that it would be the most convenient mode of effecting the object he had in view. He should move, therefore, that the duty of sixpence in the pound should be reduced to one penny in the pound, but in the following manner:—that it should be reduced on the 10th of September next from sixpence to threepence; and on the 10th of December next from threepence to one penny. He should also move, that on the latter day the present prohibition on the exportation of raw wool should be entirely removed, as well as that upon certain articles of wool, which were so loosely manufactured, that they could be easily converted again into wool, and ultimately into cloth. By way of protection, however, to the trade in these articles, he proposed to place a duty of 2 d d 1443
 Mr. Calcraft  said a few words to the same effect. He was one of those who did not consider it was expedient to concede the exportation of long wool. If, however, the right hon. gentleman thought it was necessary that his resolution should now be carried, he would not press his opposition, because other opportunities would occur for his expressing his opinion.
 Mr. Western  expressed an opinion, that the duty proposed on the exportation of long wool was too high, and would therefore operate as a prohibition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that if he could have acted entirely as he had wished, he should not have imposed so high a duty; but it was thought, that when a system of laws which had been long cherished with what he confessed he considered a mistaken veneration, was about to be abrogated, something was due to the interests of those who imagined they would be affected by the proposed measure. He therefore thought that it would not be inconsistent with the policy of the government to concede something to the notions of those persons; and for this reason it was, that he had acquiesced in the duty of twopence, instead of the almost nominal duty of one penny. He flattered himself that he had succeeded in allaying the apprehensions which had been entertained on this score, although he was not convinced that there was any reason for them. He believed that, if the long wool were exported without any restriction, no ill effects would result, because that wool would always be cheaper here than any where else; and that if the duty were taken off foreign wool, it would more than compensate our manufacturers for the seeming disadvantage, and prevent the foreign manufacturers from availing themselves of it to any extent. He knew it was said that there could be no great benefit attending this experiment. If, however, it should appear, when the measure came to be put in practice, that the duty did really amount to a prohibition, it would be necessary to apply to the House to remedy that inconvenience. At all events, it was wise in the first instance, to put on a duty even higher than he could
 1444
 Mr. Western  said a few words in approbation of what the right hon. gentleman had stated.
 Mr. S. Wortley  objected strongly, that that description of wool which was the peculiar growth of this country should be exported, in such a way as would enable the foreign manufacturers to compete with us successfully. All the petitions he had presented to the House looked at this subject in the same way. With respect to the duty which was to be imposed, he must take leave to tell his right hon. friend, that he did not look upon it either as a prohibition or as a temporary measure. The manufacturers of wool, his constituents, claimed as a right, that their trade should be protected to that extent, as far as it was connected with the article which was the exclusive produce of England. All that they sought was, a protection equal to the disadvantage they were likely to sustain by the exportation of that article; they said—"Give us this, and we are quite willing to enter into competition with the rest of the world." He understood it was not expected that much raw wool would go out of the country, but that a great deal manufactured into yarn would. The manufacturers were very anxious to have a little more time for the purpose of looking about them. He hoped his right hon. friend would give them six months longer than he had proposed, and not carry his resolution into effect until the 5th of July, 1825.
 Mr. Cripps  regretted the discussion of this important question at that time of night. In the county of Glocester long wool happened to be the growth, and not the manufacture of the county. He believed that the whole produce of the country was not more than was necessary for the employment of the artisans engaged to work it up; and this he took to be the strongest argument against the expediency of permitting its exportation.
 Mr. Calcraft  explained why he had commenced the discussion. The question was one of the highest importance, and the public attention ought to be directed to it in the first instance, however late the hour, and however thin the attendance. The object he had in view was, to give the resolution the utmost publicity; and he trusted that enough had been done not to create alarm, but to call attention out of doors to the measure, and to let the public know that the preliminary stage had been passed through. It seemed that the manufacturers were, to a certain degree, satisfied with the change of duty proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer: at least honourable members expressed themselves tolerably well contented on the part of their constituents. It was necessary that the matter should be distinctly understood, and he wished, therefore, to hear from the chancellor of the Exchequer, whether the two-pence per pound was to be considered a permanent or a temporary duty. At first the right lion, gentleman had spoken as if it were to be permanent, yet afterwards, in answer to the hon. member for Essex, he had appeared to intimate, that it was only to be temporary, in order to try the experiment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  admitted, that no doubt ought to be left upon the point. The footing on which he put it was thus:—if the export of wool were to be allowed, it ought not to be so clogged by a duty as to render the permission inoperative. He proposed the duty of two-pence, because it was fair and reasonable towards those who were interested, and whose apprehensions were excited. It was not his intention to limit the time during which that duty should continue, nor would he undertake to say, that it should be lowered at any given date; if indeed it were lowered at all. What he said was this, that if it should be found in practice that the duty, of two-
 1446
 Mr. Sykes  objected to the amendment, and proposed that he appointment should be vested in the-sheriff, or the going judge of assize.
 Mr. Sykes  said, he had considered this to be a measure which was calculated to produce the greatest benefit to the country; but, if the principle of compensation were carried to the extent contended for, he believed no advantage whatever would be derived from it. Claims would be preferred by all the holders of places of special jurisdiction throughout the kingdom. At the present time, and under the present circumstances, he thought the claims for compensation perfectly unreasonable. If the measure must be clogged with this principle of compensation, it had better be abandoned; for. under such circumstances it would lose its character with the public. He thought the claim quite unreasonable.
 Mr. Littleton  was sorry the noble lord did not accede to the claim for compensation, which appeared to him so just. As to the clerk of the court of King's-bench, the late lord Ellenborough had his mind so fully impressed with the sacredness of that office, that he left it to his son, and left him little else besides the income of it. Nor was it surprising that the late lord chief justice should have felt so confident, after the uniform language of commissions and committees. He reminded the noble lord, that there was never a case in which a bridge was built, but compensation was made to the owner of a ferry, if the ferry was injured by it, even though the bridge was not built on the land of the owner of the ferry. He thought however, that the House should take an early opportunity of revising the patent offices of courts of justice, which were the cause of great injustice to the other officers of the courts. The salaries of the chief justices of the court of Common Pleas and King's Bench were small, on account of the patronage of those offices. It so happened, that the late lord chief justice of the King's Bench was enabled to make a provision for his family, but the present chief justice was left with the reduced salary, and with no means of making any such provision.
 Mr. Portman  suggested, that the amount of the security which the clerk of the court was called upon to give, ought to be specified.
 Colonel Trench  mentioned a case of two solicitors in one of the counties, who had contrived to swell the number of suits since 1815, from an average of 82 per annum, at which it stood before, to upwards of 400, preying upon their own clients in case of defeat or loss of costs; and out of 1,300 or 1,400 cases, they had not pressed more than 15 to final judgement. 1442
 Mr. Bennet  entirely objected to the interference of the Crown.
 Mr. Bennet  was favourably inclined to the proposition of the right hon. secretary. He thought it would be destructive of the independence of the bar, to divide seventy places of 500 l
 Mr. Bright  objected to the discussion of this subject in the present state of the House.
 Mr. Abercromby  was desirous to know for what length of time these compensations were to be carried on. If his hon. and learned friend should answer, that they would terminate with the life of the present officers, then would arise the question respecting the chief justice; for if the emoluments of these officers should be diminished, he would of course receive proportionally so much less for them when, they fell within his disposal.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he should be happy if he could bring himself to accede to this principle of compensation, but he had not been able to come to that conclusion. It had occurred to him at first, that there was a reasonable distinction between those offices which were the subject of purchase, and those which were not; but, upon further reflection, he saw no sound reason for that distinction. His hon. and learned friend had said that there was an implied compact between the officers and the public. He admitted that there was such an implied contract, to a certain extent; for instance, they had no right absolutely to abolish an office without compensation during the holder's life, or if a man had been accustomed to receive 2 s d 1435
 Mr. L. Foster  supported the amendment.
 Mr. Lockhart  maintained, that the sum was much too small. He wished that 40 l l l
 Mr. Hume  said, that they ought to be paid by direct salaries in a sufficient manner, and not by the sale of offices.
 Mr. Hume  thought the resolution ought to be amended by a declaration, that it should not be lawful for any chief justice, or any other person, to sell or dispose of any of those offices for which compensation was proposed to be given. He wished to know whether it was the intention of the attorney-general to introduce such a clause?
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he was friendly to the principle of the bill, but he could not consent to pass over the rights of individuals. Many of the persons who held offices in courts of justice, had given up professional pursuits for what they considered as freehold places. He was instructed to state the case of one very respectable individual, the county clerk of Durham, who was appointed by the bishop under patent Though that office did not
 1432 l l
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  then proposed the addition of the name of the county clerk of the County Palatine of Durham.
 Mr. Peel  suggested, that the Crown ought to be invested with the power of consolidating two or three of the smaller counties; leaving the large ones to be furnished each with an assessor.
 Mr. W. Smith  objected to discussing this important question further in the present stage, and at that late hour, when, so many members had gone away, under the expectation that the resolution would not be brought forward. Enough had been already said to create alarm, and
 1445
 Sir George Rose  stated the case of the clerk of the plea side of the Exchequer. His office had been executed by deputy: one half of the profits were paid to the deputy, and the principal paid the whole expense of the establishment. According to the best calculations, the bill will reduce the receipts one-fourth; so that it was obvious the condition of this officer would be anything but advantageous. This, he thought, formed no substantial objection to the bill of the noble lord, the object of which was most laudable. Nothing could be more honourable to a man of the noble lord's rank, than to see him thus devote himself to the endeavour of procuring a freer and cheaper administration of justice.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he could not let the present opportunity pass without congratulating the House and the friends of the abolition generally, on the success which had attended a measure which he had seen so long opposed. Looking back at the difficulties with which its friends had had to encounter, he could not at one time have thought it possible that they should have been overcome in such a comparatively short time. In the early part of his life, he had seen the measure combated, in and out of that House, as one which it would be most dangerous and most unjust to pass. He had seen the slave trade defended as a legitimate trade, and he now lived to find it where it ought to be placed—amongst the number of capital crimes. He had heard merchants advocating it as a source of national wealth, and gallant admirals defending it as a source of naval strength; he had heard it supported and justified as a trade which rescued the negro from the cruelty of his African enemies, and conferred a blessing on him by transporting him from that inhospitable shore, to the paradise of our West-India Islands. One gallant officer, indeed, had gone so far on the subject, and thought the situation of the enslaved African so enviable, as to have expressed a regret, that he himself had not been, born a negro. He remembered to have heard it stated, that the question of abolition was supported only by a set of political incendiaries and religious enthusiasts: but, a set of virtuous men, by perseverance, had triumphed over all these obstacles,
 1425
 Lord Althorp  wished he had been convinced by the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, not only because it was unpleasant for him to stand up to oppose a claim for compensation made in behalf of gentlemen with many of whom he was acquainted, but because he was aware, that, with a view to facilitate the passing of his bill, it would be good policy for him to accede to the motion. But he thought this principle of granting compensation for losses indirectly occasioned, could not be too strictly watched; and he thought the House should have more direct precedents than those adduced by the hon. and learned gentleman, before they saddled the country with the burthen. The only precedent in favour of the hon. and learned attorney-general, which could be at all considered as a direct one was, that of the compensation made to the counsel of the court of Marshalsea. But this, if not technically, was substantially a private measure. The compensation was not made out of the consolidated-fund. The officers of the court of Requests, who received more fees is consequence of their extension of jurisdiction, undertook to pay 50 l 1431 l
 Lord Althorp  then rose, and proposed an amendment to that part of the bill which provided for the appointment of assessors to the sheriff. As the bill now stood, the right of appointment was vested in the Custos Rotulorum, and the amendment which he meant to propose was, that the appointment should belong to the Crown. This amendment, he proposed, as the best mode of preventing any vexatious contest, wherever a vacancy occurred, red, and an appointment became necessary.
 Lord Althorp  considered the suggestion of the right hon. secretary impracticable. It was the object of the bill to provide for the holding of the sheriffs' courts four times a year in different towns in each county, in such counties as Yorkshire and Lancashire, such an arrangement would give the assessor full employment for the whole year.
 Lord Althorp  observed, that as the sums which would be paid into those courts were not likely to be great, moderate security would be sufficient.
 Lord Althorp  did not know how he could meet the views of the hon. and learned gentleman, because, as it appeared to him, if parties could not appear by solicitors, they must be required to appear in person. If this were to be the rule, there would be danger of unprincipled plaintiffs suing gentlemen wrongfully, with the certainty, that they would not think it worth while to appear merely for the sake of the fines. However, if the right hon. gentleman could frame a clause to meet this as well as his own view of the subject, he would gladly support it.
 Lord Eastnor  did not see any reason why these places should be filled by barristers exclusively. There were many gentlemen residing in the country whose education fully qualified them to perform any duties which the office might require.
 Lord Milton  could not assent to the principle of purchasing the right to effect a great public improvement in the administration of justice. Let the grievance first be redressed, and the inquiry into individual and incidental injuries follow. He agreed with the hon. member for Corfe Castle, that they ought not to legislate on this subject by anticipation. If the suitor was offered a better mode of redress it one court it was natural that the fees of the officers in the other courts should be diminished pro tanto; and, speaking upon principle, if they compensated at all, they should extend the compensation to all officers, and not confine it merely to the rich and powerful, whilst they passed over those who had not equal facilities to make their voice heard in Parliament. But he was opposed to the principle of compensation altogether, for he thought there was no reason why allowances should be made to persons who might happen to be incidentally injured.
 Lord Milton , not having hitherto had an opportunity of expressing his opinion upon this subject, hoped to be allowed to say a few words, intimately connected as he was with the county of York and the petitioners. It was true, that great alarm prevailed in the West Riding upon this subject, but he thought it was unfounded, and that no danger would arise from the unrestricted competition proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer. Perhaps, however, it might be right to afford the manufacturers some degree of protection; not because it was required, but because it would quiet apprehensions and give satisfaction. When the petitioners spoke of
 1424
 Mr. S. Wortley  spoke in favour of the increase of the duty from one penny to two-pence per pound.
 Mr. Grenfell  was of a contrary opinion, as to the general principle of taxation. He had no hope that the tax on sea-borne coals would be repealed this year; but the attention of ministers to it ought to be kept constantly alive by petitions.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it had not been his intention to have troubled the House at all on this occasion, but he could not withhold a few observations after the appeals which had been made to him. He could not help thinking that hon. gentlemen were mistaken, as to the grounds on which he had proceeded with regard to coals. First, he had never maintained, nor affected to maintain, that the duty on sea-borne coals was not very unequal in its operation, and pressed with peculiar severity on different parts of the country. It was a duty for which, however, the present generation was not at all responsible. It had existed for a century, and he had always thought, that before any step was taken to remove it, some attention ought to be paid to those interests that had grown up under it. He could not repeal the whole duty on coals, without serious prejudice to the interests of parties who ought to be considered but he had never gone the length of saying, that those interests were such as to render the gradual reduction of the tax impossible. Looking at the various items composing the taxation of the country, he had not thought that the duty on coals was one which ought to be repealed to the whole extent, or prior to other taxes pressing with greater severity. He had proposed the repeal of taxes this year, to the amount of a million, conceiving that, taking the country generally, he was consulting its interests better, than if he had relinquished the whole of the duty on coals. At the same time, it had appeared to him, that the coal tax was not only unjust in itself, but pressed with peculiar severity on a particular part of the kingdom; namely, the metropolis and its neighbourhood, because there the duty was considerably more. He had never
 1450 l. s. d., s. s.
 Mr. S. Worthy  said, he should be glad to hear his hon friend prove the justice of laying a tax of 6 s. s. s.
 Mr. Maberly  thought, that the country gentlemen were not dealing fairly with the chancellor of the Exchequer upon this occasion. It was rather inconsistent in those who had supported the system of a sinking fund, now to come forward and tell the adviser of it, that they would not bear the taxes by which that sinking fund was to be supported. It was consistent enough in his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, and himself to press for a repeal of taxes, because they had always opposed the scheme of a sinking fund; but as for the hon. gentlemen who now called for a repeal of taxes, after supporting the sinking fund, where, he would ask, was their consistency?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he felt that, from the manner in which the resolution respecting coals had been carried, the parties interested in them had lost the opportunity which they were fairly entitled to, of stating the objections which could be urged against them. If, therefore, the hon. member for Newcastle wished to move for the re-commitment of those resolutions, he should throw no objection in the way of it, and in the committee the hon. member might bring forward his statement. Thursday was the earliest day that was open, and if the hon. baronet would move for the re-commitment of the resolutions on that day, he should throw no obstacle in the way of the motion.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  thought, that when it was considered how long and how unjustly the people of London had been taxed in the article of coals, and the misery to which the poor had been often reduced for want of fuel, no gentleman
 1453
 Mr. Plunkett  rose to move the order of the day for the second reading of the Burials in Ireland bill. The right hon. and learned gentleman observed, that he would not have brought it forward at that moment, if he had not had some reason to flatter himself, from the general opinion which he had collected from all sides of the House on the measure, that there was no likelihood of any material objection being offered to it, nor of any discussion arising that would be at all calculated to pruduce a protracted debate. The House was already aware of the general scope and object of the bill. It related to the burials, in Ireland, of persons dissenting from the doctrines and discipline of the Established Church, with those forms and ceremonies which were peculiar to the religion professed by them. Every one must feel, that this was a subject of extreme importance, as it related to the moral feelings, passions, and prejudices of the great bulk of the population of Ireland; and they must also perceive, that it was a question of the greatest delicacy, because, as it referred to circumstances which must occur in the precincts of protestant church-yards, it would naturally excite the attention of those who felt an interest in the security of the protestant establishment. He therefore approached the subject with a considerable degree of caution, he would not say of alarm; because the measure had been so maturely considered, and so nicely prepared, with reference to both sides of the question, that while it would make the law easy, as to the burial of dissenters, it would not create any just alarm in the minds of those who were connected with the Established Church. But, when he stated that it was a subject of great difficulty and delicacy, he begged to observe, that
 1454 1455 1456 1457 1458 1459 1460 1461 1462 may 1463 1464 1465
 Sir C. Long  expressed his surprise, that the hon. gentleman should place such implicit faith in an article published in the Edinburgh Review by an anonymous writer. He was sorry the hon. gentleman had not made more accurate inquiries on the subject, before he repeated that writer's statement in that House. If he had done so, he would have found that, for some of the assertions in the article in question, there was not the slightest foundation; and that others were most grossly exaggerated. And first, with respect to that part of the museum which was derived from sir Hans Sloane. The hon. gentleman stated, that of sir Hans Sloane's large collections, few articles were left. This was certainly the case. But it ought to be recollected, that the most valuable portion of those collections was the insects. Now sir Hans Sloane died in 1752. It was probable, therefore, that above a century had elapsed since the preparation of most of them. But, there were in the museum above 70,000 articles in entomology, comprehending among them duplicates of all that had been in sir Hans Sloane's collection. [Mr. Bennet asked, across the table, where these specimens where?] Where? In the British Museum. Not exposed to public view certainly. He was aware
 1469 1470 en masse l. l. s. l. 1471 1472 1473
 Mr. Bankes  said, that all the charges contained in the pamphlet, if examined, would be found, if not altogether false, at least greatly exaggerated. He would read to the House an extract from that publication, in order to shew the degree of credit which was due to the writer. The hon. member then proceeded to read the following extract from the Edinburgh Review;—"To much practical knowledge of zoology, he should unite great zeal for the science, and an intensity of application for years to come, before the national collection can be rendered respectable. In its present state, it is an object of disgust and lamentation to native naturalists, and of ridicule and contempt to foreigners. We have heard hints of a permanent provision for an extra librarian being the cause of the removal of Mr. Children from the antiquarian to the zoological department; but we are unwilling to credit this." The House could not be at a loss to understand the meaning of the writer; he referred to other candidates, and evidently spoke in the language of disappointment.
 Mr. G. Bankes  defended the conduct of Mr. Salt, a gentleman who was entitled to the best thanks of the country for the extent of his useful labours.
 Mr. Bankes  thought, that none of the objections, either to the institution or the management of it, were well founded. As to the inconvenience and difficulty of admission, that could hardly be alleged, seeing, that in the course of last year, it had been visited by 100,000 persons. As to the want of room, it was true that they had not enough for all the subjects which were presented, and had been obliged to build for the reception of the king's library. But, if gentlemen would only consider that these collections, after the completion of the new buildings, would cover a space rather larger than Han-
 1475
 Mr. R. Smith  hoped it would be generally understood, that nothing which had occurred that evening ought to induce the trustees to consider themselves precluded from coming to parliament for any further sum which they might consider necessary.
 Sir C. Long  was quite disposed to concur in the hope expressed by his hon. friend. With respect to what had been observed, as to the sum paid to Mr. Salt for the sarcophagus, he could only state, that Mr. Bingham Richards, the agent of that gentleman, had been asked, whether he would be satisfied with 2,000 l. l. 1476
 Sir C. Long  replied, that he wished by no means to be understood to say, that the trustees would not very willingly, under the authority of the House, revise their decision as to Mr. Salt's remuneration.
 Mr. Hutchinson  regretted, for causes as well known to the hon. gentleman as to himself, that this topic however ably treated, had been touched upon at this time. He would go the whole length with the hon. member in believing, that the Kildare-street society had done a great deal of good, and meant to do still more. The committee must not conceal from themselves, that the object pursued on this occasion was the education of a Catholic population. Any indisposition on the part of the Catholics to have their children educated together with Protestants he should exceedingly deprecate. At the same time, if the objection was a conscientious one, he really thought that the joint education of Protestants and Catholics, or a scriptural education, as it had been termed, ought not to be made a condition of such a grant of the public money as that now proposed.
 Mr. Curteis  said, the landed interest had been hardly dealt with by that measure. His constituents would certainly have petitioned against it, if sufficient time had been afforded them.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that when the question came to be argued, he should be ready to maintain the justice and policy of the plan of reduction proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer; or he should rather shew, that the duty of 1s. per ton still continued on inland coals was a shilling too much. Where was-the justice of imposing upon inland coals a tax
 1451
 Mr. G. Bennet  expressed a hope that no niggardly principle would prevent the trustees from coming to parliament to ask for two or three hundred pounds, if necessary, in order to procure scientific persons to preside over the different departments. Sir Joseph Banks and sir Humphrey Davy had been named as specimens of the talent with which the different departments were filled; but of those gentlemen one was dead, and the other was far from being an instance of the general talent with which those situations ought to be filled.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  begged to call the attention of the House to the distressing account of the state of the various subjects of natural history in the British Museum, contained in an article of the Edinburgh Review, for May 1823. He was sorry to say, that he understood the observations in that article were strictly just. Generally speaking, the statements of the publication in question were very correct; but, so great a clamour had been raised by the remarks to which he had adverted, that he had been induced to inquire into their foundation, and had been informed that they were grounded in fact. By that article it appeared, with reference to the immense collections of sir Hans Sloane, in which the Museum might be said to have had its origin, that those collections were nearly all gone. The birds and beasts, which formed so large a part of these collections, had nearly disappeared. Of nearly 2,000 specimens of mammalia, all had been annihilated. It was the same with the insects. Of above five thousand of the latter, all in a state of the best preservation, not above three or four hundred remained. Of an immense and valuable herbarium, occupying 334 volumes, but fifty or sixty were now visible, and those were covered with dust and penetrated by worms; threatening the whole with destruction. The various gifts of distinguished travellers to the British Museum were all sharing a similar fate. The trustees declared, that they wanted room. Why, then, did they not come to parliament sooner, and make that statement?
 1467 1468
 Mr. Bennet  complained of the duty on the exportation of wool having been raised from l d. d.
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that if the chancellor of the Exchequer had listened to all parties, instead of attending to the remonstrances of only one party, he should not have complained. The right hon. gentleman ought to have obtained full information as to the propriety of the course he was about to pursue, before he commenced it.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that the repeal of unjust taxes ought, from day to day, to be forced upon the consideration of his majesty's ministers.
 Mr. Bright said,  that in consequence of the new bonding system, this measure might operate most unequally on different classes of merchants. Many dealers in the town which he had the honour to represent, had a quantity of wool in bond; others again had a large quantity not bonded. It was incumbent on the right hon. gentleman to make such arrangements as would prevent those who had paid the duty from suffering in consequence of this measure.
 Mr. H. Gurney  said a few words, which were inaudible, and to which.
 Mr. Allen  said:—I rise, Sir, to object to the present bill, partly because I consider all its provisions trivial, useless, or pernicious; but principally because its main object appears to be, not so much to improve the judicature, as to extinguish a question of far greater importance, the expediency of maintaining or abolishing the Welsh judicature. 1485 1486 1487 1488 l.
 Mr. Croker  said, that was certainly true; but, if the poor scholar could furnish himself with a catalogue at a low rate, he would not have to waste his valuable time by going to the Museum to discover that the book which he sought for was not to be found there.
 Mr. Croker  thought that the library was pretty well managed, but complained loudly of the state of the catalogue. The value of a public library must depend, in
 1474 1.
 Mr. J. L. Foster  rose, for the purpose of making a few observations respecting the effect which had been produced in the education of the poor in Ireland by the Kildare-street society. The hon. gentleman referred to the fourteenth report of that society, which, he said, exhibited an interesting comparison between the state of education before the establishment of that society and since it had been in operation. Notwithstanding the number of schools which existed previously, such was their nature, and such the method in which they were carried on, that, so far from education being a blessing, it was one of the main springs of all the evils that prevailed. The Irish peasant was not the victim of ignorance, but of misdirected education. One of the most pernicious practices was, the introduction of books of a dangerous tendency into the schools. Many persons employed their capitals and their industry, in disseminating books purporting to be the histories and adventures of rebels, traitors, and enterprising malefactors. The object of the Kildare-street society had been to check this evil practice; and they had so far succeeded, with the munificent assistance of parliament, that the same persons who had formerly been employed in this trade, were now engaged in furnishing the same schools with books of a more useful tendency. The society, feeling that to provide proper masters for the various schools connected with them was another most important point, had established a model school in Dublin; which, beside the local good which it did in educating 300 of the children of the artizans of Dublin, pre-
 1478 l. l.
 Mr. North,  in a maiden speech, then addressed the committee. He said, the hon. members opposite had objected to his hon. friend, that he had introduced this subject of discussion, but if he knew his countrymen, and be thought he did know them, they would wish, whatever might be given to them, or whatever might be withheld from them, that it should not be done in silence and secresy, but be most amply discussed. He thought the House might trust to their intelligence, for there was not a more intelligent people; the House might trust to their candour, for no people were more candid, and nothing would displease them so much as that middle course of neither giving nor withholding. The House should proceed steadily forward. The gentlemen opposite objected to discussion, not to angry or furious discussion, but to the calm, and he would say, cold discussion of his hon. friend, when compared with the magnitude of the subject. Suppose the statement had not been made, it would have gone forth to the world, that the Kildare society had been attacked, and that a member of the society had been present, and had not defended it. The Irish were a suspicious people; and were jealous that that which was done with regard to them should not be done
 1480 1481 1482 1483 1484
 Mr. Hume  said, that although the full discussion which the subject to which this vote related had undergone on a former evening, rendered it unnecessary to go into it at any length, he could not refrain from expressing a hope, that something would be done speedily upon a matter of so much importance. He was aware that great difference of opinion prevailed on this subject; but he was sure almost all persons agreed, that it was highly desirable to educate the Catholic and Protestant children in the same schools. He doubted, however, the possibility of effecting the object, the great mass of the poor children being Catholic, unless the funds destined for the purpose should be placed, not exclusively under the direction of Protestants, but even the larger part under the control of Catholics. This opinion was supported by the undeniable fact, that a great number of Catholics refused to receive the benefits of education upon the terms on which they were tendered to them. He had the authority of a Catholic bishop for stating, that in the thirty-six parishes of his diocess, there were 10,000 children, all of whom were fit to go to school, but were not able to pay, and who were yet restrained from availing themselves of the schools which
 1477
 Mr. Hume  said, he was prepared to state to the chancellor of the Exchequer a mode in which he could conciliate both parties; namely, by taking off the duties as well on sea-borne as upon inland coals. This was the best way of putting them on an equality, and it was a wiser course than to apply six millions annually to buy up three per cents at 95. If he would give up the Sinking Fund he might reduce the whole of the coal tax, and the whole of the window and house tax. For what purpose was the sinking Fund maintained? to support the funded interest. But the funded interest needed no such support. The reduction of the taxes to the amount he had stated, would be received with the greatest satisfaction; and he had no doubt, if all those gentlemen who now spoke so strongly in behalf of their several petitions, would come down and support a specific motion on the subject, the chancellor of the Exchequer would find it perfectly convenient to carry the measure into effect.
 Mr. Hume  said, that, of 43 trustees, 21 were efficient, comprising the ministers of state now, it was not to be supposed, that those efficient persons, who had so many duties to attend to, gave any of their time to the consideration of the affairs of the British Museum. There were, then, eight members, who represented the Sloane, the Cotton, Harleian, Townley, and Elgin families. To those he did not object; but he did object to this, that there was not one roan of science to be found in the number of those trustees. If individuals were placed over that establishment who would preside over committees, and attend its general interests, he had no doubt but the affairs of the institution would be Ouch better conducted.
 Mr. Hume  contended, that his hon. friend, the member for Shrewsbury, was fully justified in asserting, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had been guilty of a breach of faith. At the same time, the right hon. gentleman had been quite right in listening to the representations of all parties interested.
 Mr. N. Calvert  argued, that no tax could be more unjust than one upon a necessary of life, which fell upon a portion of the country only.
 Mr. Newman  supported the prayer of the said petitions, and hoped that the chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to repeal this unjust and partial tax.
 Mr. Huskisson  presented a petition from certain wool growers, praying for a reduction of the duty on the importation of wool, the petitioners conceiving that the tax on the importation of that article was injurious to their interests.
 Mr. Peel  said, it was true that the manuscript in question had been found among: some state papers. It was a theological work entitled, "de Dei Cultu," treating of the truths of the christian religion, and no doubt, as far as evidence could go, it was authentic. How the manuscript had come into the situation where it had been discovered, it was impossible to guess; but it had been submitted to the king, who at once had said, that it was fit it should be given to the public. Accordingly, it had been placed in competent hands, and would shortly be printed, under the auspices of his majesty.
 Mr. W. Smith  approved of the institution generally, and thought the objections to the catalogue not very sound. The library was for reference more than for study, and poor scholars, as well as others, might look in the catalogue when there, without going to the expense of purchasing one.
 Mr. W. Smith  spoke in favour of the prayer of the petition, contending that the tax was most unjust and partial. The city of Norwich suffered severely from it.
 Mr. W. Williams  begged to put a question to the right hon. the home secretary, with respect to a manuscript lately discovered, and said to be the undoubted work of the immortal Milton. He understood that there was no question whatever as to the genuineness of the work; that it was partly in the hand-writing of Philips, Milton's nephew, and bore otherwise sufficient marks of authenticity. He was desirous, therefore, of knowing how it had been disposed of, and whether it was to be given to the public.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  agreed with the hon. member for Sussex, that the landed
 1448 d.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that when the right hon. gentleman talked of relieving the poor of London, he should protest against the injustice of the measure, which went to continue a tax of 6 s. s. s. d. s. d.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he had no objection to Thursday as the day for re-committing the resolutions. He begged again to say, that he had no wish to impose any additional tax on inland coals. He only wished the two descriptions of coal to be kept in the same relative situations in which they had hitherto stood.
 Sir John Newport  could not agree with his noble friend. His noble friend seemed to have forgotten, that the particular class of the community to which he had alluded had, for nearly a century past, been aggrieved by the unjust and partial operation of the coal duties; and surely his noble friend would not argue, that it was not entitled to relief, because it had submitted patiently for many years to the grievance which had been imposed upon it. He must contend that the chancellor of the Exchequer was only performing an act of justice in equalizing the operation of the coal-duties in all parts of the country.
 Sir J. Newport  regretted that this subject had been introduced, before the committee appointed by the House had made their report. He had abstained from expressing his opinion until that report should have furnished a more certain basis upon which a conclusion might be formed. Some points of the hon. gentleman's
 1479
 Sir J. Newport,  in explanation, stated, that he never intended to cast any imputation upon so respectable a body as the Kildare-street society, who had certainly done much in the cause of the education of the Irish poor.
 Lord Milton  complained of the policy which government had pursued upon this question. They had given up a revenue amounting to 800,000 l. 1452
 Lord Milton  concurred in his hon. friend's general recommendation, although he doubted if sea-borne coal was the tax which ought first to be taken off. They ought rather to call for the reduction of those taxes which more generally affected the country at large. He admitted, that the coal-tax was in its origin impolitic; but interest had grown up under it, which might require consideration. At all events
 1449
 Lord Milton  said, he had been no party to the alteration of the duty on exportation from  1d. d.
 Mr. B. Wilbraham  said, that the hon. member for Sussex had given notice of a motion for that day, on the subject of the adjournment of the committee, and he should therefore not detain the House on the subject. As to the supposed wrong done to Mr. Walker by the adjournment, he should merely state, that the committee on the bill had sat every day for a month; that every tittle of the evidence for the bill had been gone through, and in the course of the evidence against the bill, a fact had been incidentally spoken to, which bore on the character of Mr. Walker. The committee subsequently adjourned sine die; but it was evident to those acquainted with the course of proceedings, that if the committee had continued to sit, Mr. Walker would not have been allowed to offer evidence in reply to the evidence against the bill; because such a course was never followed, and would never bring the business on a bill to a termination. Evidence was first offered pro, and then contra, and the committee immediately after reported.—Such was the invariable practice.
 Lord Stanley  rose to order, and objected to the reading of the minutes of evidence which had not been regularly laid before the House. He had been chairman of the committee, and he did not know that the minutes were yet regularly in the hands of a single individual.
 Lord Stanley  admitted that a member might state what had occurred, to lay a ground for the production of the minutes but to read those minutes before they were produced, was irregular.
 Mr. Stanley,  in a maiden speech of much clearness and ability, opposed the motion. The bill which had been under investigation had, he said, excited so much interest among many members connected by no local concern in the affairs of Manchester, that he would
 12 l 13 s
 Mr. Philips  thought, that as the committee had adjourned sine die, it was at present extinct, and the regular mode of proceeding would be to revive it. This course was justified by a precedent which occurred in the year 1816. A more gross and fraudulent attempt to impose upon a committee of that House had never been made. So far were the people of Manchester from concurring in this bill, that it had been promoted only by a number of ale-house keepers, a quack doctor, and other persons, who had no sort of connexion with the respectable inhabitants of Manchester.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  thought the main question was, whether a committee of that House should exercise the discretion of making no report on a bill, in disobedience to the order of the House —a discretion which would give them an enormous power, and which might seriously involve the fortunes and character of individuals concerned in private petitions. He gave no opinion on the merits of the bill; nor did he mean to cast the slightest reflection on the committee, or to say a word in favour of the mode in which the bill had originated.
 Mr. S. Rice  thanked his hon. friend for the observations he had just made. He could not help thinking his present declaration as one of the most important which had been made this session. He trusted the recommendations of his hon. friend would be carried into effect, by all who possessed any influence in Ireland. The evil arising from Orange lodges was of late date; those associations had only been established within the last few years. He again begged his hon. friend to accept his acknowledgments for his present statement; a statement which, he trusted, would not be lost on the government with which he was connected.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that as this subject could not be interesting to the majority of gentlemen present, he would make his statement as short as he possibly could. If the noble lord had moved that the twelve reports of the commissioners relative to the fees and emoluments connected with courts of justice in Scotland should be referred to a select committee, to declare what had been and what ought to be done, he could have understood that proceeding; but he was somewhat at a loss to know what the noble lord meant by submitting those documents to a committee of the whole House, although he could perhaps guess at the noble lord's object. The noble lord, it appeared, was anxious that he (the Lord Advocate) should defend himself from the charge of having neglected his duty, by not giving effect to the recommendation of the commissioners. Now, he must say, that the noble lord had been for some years most attentive to individuals holding the situation which he had the honour to fill at present; and it was a matter of great satisfaction to him, considering the various duties he had to perform, to find that the only matter of blame affecting him, which the noble lord could bring before the House, was his supposed neglect of the reports of those commissioners. He, however, denied that he harboured any disinclination to carrying into full effect the recommendations of the commissioners. He was not in parliament when the right hon. baronet, the member for Waterford, made the motion, in consequence of which commissioners of inquiry were appointed. He was, however, glad that the proposition had been carried because much valuable information excellent historical accounts of the different courts, and various important recommendations had arisen from the inquiry. Still, however, looking to the whole sys-
 24 25 26 5l. l l l l 5 l 27 28
 Lord Binning  declined following the noble mover through his speech, because he thought it had been sufficiently answered by his learned friend, the lord advocate. He rose for the purpose of thanking the learned lord, for his intention with respect to the magistracy of Scotland; and hoped the hon. member for Calne would not press the grand-jury question into the same inquiry.
 Mr. Kennedy  felt so highly pleased with the intention of the lord advocate, with respect to the Scottish magistracy, that he wished to know whether it was meant to be proceeded with in the present session,
 The Lord Advocate  said, he had not made up his mind whether he would pursue the suggestion which he had thrown out in this session or the next. He must first know a little of the feeling of the profession in Scotland upon the subject.
 Sir R. Fergusson  said, that the lord advocate's speech had deceived the greater part of the House. Certainly, it had been understood that he meant to move for an immediate investigation. But, as the learned lord said, that he wished to consult the feelings of his countrymen upon the question, he begged to know who the parties were whom he wished to consult, and how and when their opinions were to be ascertained?
 Mr. K. Douglas  said, that the measure which his learned friend proposed to introduce was one of great importance, and deserved the greatest consideration. If the learned lord could introduce the measure during the present session, he no doubt would do so; but if, on the other hand, the learned lord should find that he could not press the measure, the House, he trusted, would not withdraw their confidence, but would leave in his hands a question, which he had no doubt would be treated by the learned lord with all the consideration which its importance claimed.
 The Lord Advocate,  in explanation, stated it to be his intention to go on with the inquiry, but would not pledge himself as to the time.
 Mr. Kennedy  rose to move for a committee to inquire into the existing laws relating to the Salmon Fisheries. The importance of the interests which were connected with it, and the number of petitions which had been presented to the House, sufficiently
 34 35
 Mr. C. Grant  agreed, that this subject was a more important one than it might at first sight appear to be. With it, however, were connected many private rights of a very ancient date, which ought to be kept sacred. The persons holding these private rights, which in Scotland were all derived from royal grants, entertained some apprehensions, lest the proposed committee should recommend an infringement of their privileges. He was satisfied that the hon. mover had no such intention, and he thought there was no ground for such apprehensions. It was a notorious fact, that the supply of fish in the rivers of England and Scotland had considerably diminished, and this was of itself sufficient to recommend a parliamentary inquiry, not for the purpose of violating any existing right, but to exclude certain injurious modes of fishing. He perfectly concurred with the hon. mover as to the expediency of such a committee.
 Colonel Wood  said, he did not mean to oppose the motion for leave to bring in the bill, but, as an isolated measure, he
 33
 Mr. Cripps  observed, that more litigation was occasioned by the claim of hiring and service than by any other ground of settlement, and as far as the noble lord's measure operated to remove that cause of dispute, it was likely to have a beneficial effect. He thought the fairest principle was, that the parish which had enjoyed the labour of the pauper should have the  onus
 Lord A. Hamilton  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move to refer the twelve reports of the commissioners of inquiry into courts of justice in Scotland to a committee of the Whole House. The noble lord observed? that so long as ten years ago; his right hon. friend, the member for Water-ford, had succeeded in getting commis-
 19 l l 20 l l l l l l l l 21 l l l l 22 l l l 23
 Lord A. Hamilton  in reply, expressed his surprise at the reluctance of the learned lord, after ten years of indecision, to fix the time. He took that opportunity of justifying his own parliamentary conduct from the aspersions of the learned lord. One assertion of the learned lord was most unjustifiable, and altogether unfounded. The learned lord had charged him with running away from his own country, at a time in which danger was expected from a general rising. This had been put forward in a newspaper, under the immediate sanction, if not di-
 31
 Mr. Arbuthnot  having moved for leave to bring in a bill for the sale of stock and other purposes relating to the land revenue,
 Mr. Arbuthnot  begged to assure the hon. gentleman, that he was not at all responsible; he disavowed any connection with the church in Langham-place and admitted that it was not the most ornamental in the metropolis. But if the new street built under the auspices of his right hon. friend was looked to as a whole, he apprehended that a general charge of bad taste could not be established. The church in question certainly would be better away, but it might not be easy to remove it. He would rather not name the architect [cries of name! name!]. If he were required to give up the architect, he must say that the church was built according to the plan of Mr. Nash. He might be allowed to add, that if this building was not very creditable to that gentleman's taste, there were many others in its neighbourhood that were eminently so.
 Mr. Brownlow  said, he had another petition to present on the same subject, and he was desirous to say a few words. The petition which had just been presented was, in every way, deserving of consideration. It was a petition from certain Freemasons in Ireland, in which they stated that the Orange Societies have not been put down, although the Freemasons' Societies had been effectually
 17
 Mr. Curteis  said, that his only object was, to bring before the House the manner in which petitions from manufacturing and mercantile places were got up; that, when the House saw the hon. member for Yorkshire, or any manufacturing county, come down loaded with petitions like Atlas, for the abolition of slavery, and what not, they might know what value to give to them. He had no concern with Manchester, and scarcely a wish on the subject of the bill; he only wished to see these matters investigated.
 Mr. Curteis  then rose, in pursuance of notice, to move, that the committee, to whom the Manchester Gas-Light bill was
 11
 Mr. Dawson,  in presenting a petition from certain Freemasons in Ireland, praying to be exempted from the provisions of the law against Secret Societies, observed, that societies of this description had given rise to the greatest excesses and crimes in Ireland. Orange processions, and Orange associations, were pregnant with as much danger and mischief as Catholic proces-
 16
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, that after what had fallen from hon. members, he had no wish for the revival of the committee. He thought, however, that the committee might have expressed some opinion in the form of a report, as to the nature of the evidence which had been brought before them.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  begged to take that opportunity of inquiring the name of the architect under whose directions the new church in Langham-place was constructing? Every body who saw it shrugged up their shoulders, and inquired who could be the architect who invented such a monstrosity? Rumours had gone abroad and several persons had been mentioned as the authors of the plan; and it was but fair, using a vulgar proverb, to place the saddle upon the right horse. He should like also to hear what this mass of deformity had cost. For one, he was resolved not to pay willingly a farthing towards its erection; on the contrary, he should be glad to see it referred to a committee to inquire into the propriety of pulling it down, and for that object, though he was not rich, he was not unwilling to subscribe a fair proportion of the expense. Among the many deplorable objects of the kind' in the metropolis and its neighbourhood, this was the most melancholy departure from the rules of good taste that he had yet seen. The spire was only to be compared to an extinguisher on a flat candle-
 36
 Mr. Bright  thought the proceedings before the committee ought not to go forward, because this step would be attended with additional expense to the parties concerned. Whether some step ought not to be taken—such, for instance, as the appointment of a select committee to examine into the way in which these petitions were got up—he would not now inquire. Such a mode of getting up petitions was, undoubtedly, a high parliamentary offence, which might be visited with severe punishment. It had been declared, in the case of the Barnstaple petition, that it was highly unwarrantable, and a breach of the privileges of that House, for any person to sign the name of another person in any petition sent to that House. It was high time that the House should take some steps to put a stop to this dangerous and unjustifiable practice.
 Mr. Bright  said, he was borne out by the orders of the House in declaring, that it was incompetent to any member of that House to speak of what had passed in a committee, before the minutes of the
 10
 Mr. Bright  rose to order. It was, he said, irregular for any member of that House to allude to the proceedings of a
 9
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that having called the attention of the House to these secret societies in the course of the last session, no individual could feel more sincere satisfaction than he did, at the opinions which had been delivered by the gentleman opposite. He could not help remarking the great change which had taken place in the course of one year; for when he had given notice of his motion last year, he had been admonished, directly and indirectly, that the only effect of the proposition must be, to increase the strength of the Orange party. Gentlemen opposite now concurred in his opinion, that there was the most imminent danger to be apprehended from the con-
 18
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he rose hardly for any other purpose than that of expressing his satisfaction at the declaration with which the learned lord had concluded his speech. The learned lord's proposed reform in the manner of administering criminal justice in Scotland was a far greater consideration than the motion immediately before the House; and he most sincerely returned his thanks to the learned lord for the intention. For himself, he had long considered the large jurisdiction held by the sheriffs in Scotland to be a part of the Scottish law most especially requiring revision; because it gave a monopoly to the profession of the law, in the administration of criminal justice, to the entire, and most impolitic, exclusion of the country gentleman; and, what was worse, these high powers being too weighty to be born by the sheriff himself, the country gentlemen, who were deprived of them, had the mortification to see them in fact exercised by the sheriff depute. He did assure the hon. and learned lord, that he had listened with the highest possible pleasure to his suggestion, for increasing the qualifications of the magistrates of Scotland; and with no less, to his objection, that those magistrates should hold the power, in cases of debt above 5 l. 29 l l
 Mr. Abercromby  protested that from the manner of the learned lord, he had doubted whether he would not move for the committee before the House adjourned. The case was very much changed indeed, if the matter, which he had been looking
 30
 Mr. Lockhart  approved of the bill, because it went to encourage residence, and to cut off one great head of litigation, which now thrived upon the uncertainties of settlement by service.
 Mr. Monck  said, he was sure that all gentlemen must agree, that the more opportunities there were for Catholics and Protestants to meet on neutral ground, the better. Now, as the Freemasons admitted amongst their members persons of all denominations, he thought it deserved encouragement, and he hoped that, in the course of the session, some gentleman would introduce a bill to exempt the Freemasons from the operation of the law respecting Secret Societies.
 Mr. Hume  said, he wished to make one remark upon the subject; and it was this: that the lord chancellor of Ireland should turn his attention to the question, and remove from the commission of the peace, all magistrates who gave a countenance to these processions. He understood that most of the meetings, of which they had heard, had been attended or countenanced by some of the magistrates. The government had it in their power to put down these processions; and they could not hope to do it effectually, unless they resorted to some strong and decided method.
 Mr. Hume  admitted that the lord advocate had done more than his predecessors for the Scottish courts; but thought that that admission threw a very heavy blame upon those predecessors. He gave great credit to the noble member for Lanark for his perseverance, and hoped he would press his motion to a division.
 Mr. Hume  thought it extremely hard, that the petitioner should receive no redress for the injustice which he alleged to have been done to him by the committee.
 Mr. P. Moore  observed, that until the report from the committee was made, no motion on the proceedings in the committee could properly take place. It was not to be presumed that the committee would strangle by an adjournment the bill which it was referred to them to consider.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, he had supported this bill in the first instance, because the company, in whose bands the lighting of the town of Manchester with gas had been for the last seven years, had only lighted one-fifth part of the town. He bad withdrawn his support from it, not because he did not think the object of the bill useful, but because it had been promoted by means which could not be justified.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  had felt much satisfaction at hearing the declaration of the lord advocate, and conjured him not to allow anything to divert him from prosecuting his view. There might be, and; would be, a division of opinion in Scotland upon the subject; but the view of the learned lord himself was decidedly the enlarged and the liberal one.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that up to that hour he had never seen the church in question, and was consequently not prepared to offer any opinion as to the good or bad taste or design. Neither had he inspected the plan, which he concluded had been submitted to the commissioners and adopted by them.
 The Speaker  confirmed the opinion of lord Stanley. It was difficult to lay down a strict rule, as to the statements which might be made of transactions in a committee, but the regular course was first to move the House, that the minutes be produced.
 The Speaker  was not quite sure that he had made himself perfectly understood. It was clear to him, that the case stated in the petition was not one for which there were no means of redress. All that he said was, that the House could have no knowledge of the circumstances mentioned in the petition. It was, however, competent to any member who knew that the committee was not sitting, to move that the minutes of their proceedings, up to the time when they ceased to sit, should be laid before the House. If such a motion were made and agreed to, the House would be cognizant of all the proceedings, and might then act upon any representation which should be made.
 The Speaker  said, it was clear that the petition referred to a matter of which the House had no cognizance whatever. This was the state of the case. The House had entertained a bill, and sent it to a committee up stairs. It having been so sent, the committee was bound, according to the strict forms of the House, to make a report; and, until the time had expired within which the committee had received directions to make their report, the House had no means of knowing that a report would not be made. At present, as there had been no order directing the minutes of the proceedings to be laid upon the table, the House could have no cognisance of what had passed in the committee, but must presume that every thing had been done correctly. In these days, it was very difficult to say what petitions should not be received, if they were properly worded; but it would be rather extraordinary to receive a petition which had been framed under such circumstances as that presented by the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough.
 The Speaker  said, he did not know that he had even now made himself understood. It would not, he thought, be safe for a person in his situation to go the length of saying that, under no circumstances, could any representation be made to that House by petition of what had passed in committee. The course of proceeding which he had pointed out would be more efficacious, and more likely to afford a remedy for any grievance, than any other which, under the present circumstances, the House could adopt.
 Sir I. Coffin  said, he should vote for the revival of the committee, because that measure would afford an opportunity of doing justice to all parties.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  in the understanding that the motion of the hon. member for Sussex would come on immediately, said, he should consent to withdraw the petition for the present.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he had heard, with the greatest pleasure, the speech which had just been delivered by his hon. young friend behind him—a speech which must have given the highest satisfaction to all who heard it, and which afforded the strongest promise, that the talents which the hon. member had displayed in supporting the local interests of his constituents, would be exerted, with equal ardour and effect, in maintaining the rights and interests of the country. No man could have witnessed with greater satisfaction than himself an accession to the
 14
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that every member who had attended an open committee, might state in his place what had taken place there.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, he had a petition to present from a Mr. William Walker, a solicitor of Manchester, which the House would be inclined to listen to-with attention, when he told them, that the petitioner complained, that his private and professional character had been attacked in the course of a proceeding under the sanction of the House, by charges which he had no opportunity of refuting, but which he was able to refute by evidence, and which he prayed to be allowed so to refute. He (sir J. M.) had no bias whatever on the subject of the proceedings, in which the matter complained of by the petitioner originated; or, if the names connected with it could give him any bias, it would rather be hostile to the party which the petitioner had espoused. The fact was, that a witness had been examined before the Manchester Gas-Light bill, who threw imputations upon the conduct of the petitioner, and subsequently before any evidence could be offered in refutation of this evidence, the committee adjourned sine die. Whether this adjournment was or was not within the words of the reference to that committee, he would not inquire; but when the petitioner stated, that by the imputations which he had been thus deprived of an opportunity of answering, his character would be taken from him, his professional prospects blasted, and himself reduced to utter ruin, if the House did not interpose, the petition could but receive the most favourable consideration. He moved that the petition be brought up.
 Lord Althorp  rose to more for leave to bring in a bill to abolish Settlement by hiring and service. The noble lord referred to the great evils which prevailed at present from the facilities given for procuring settlement by hiring and service. Though the weight of this grievance was sometimes averted by hiring for 51 weeks and by other devices, yet these cases were met by the judgment of courts, which frequently made the contract void. It might safely be asserted, that a change in the law was necessary, were it only to cut off the enormous and expensive litigation which sprung out of this particular claim of settlement. Another evil arising out of the law, as it now stood, was the difficulty which a poor man found in getting work out of his own parish. This would be, in a great measure, removed by his bill. At the same time, he was aware that some evil must arise from any change. It was, therefore, on a balance of the advantages and disadvantages, which he thought to be decidedly in favour of his plan, that he took leave to propose the present motion.
 Mr. Ellis  presented a petition from the chamber of commerce in Dublin, setting forth, 37 38
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  did not at all acquiesce in the doctrines of the petition. Among the landed interest the greatest alarm prevailed upon the question; and the further the bill proceeded, the more its opponents multiplied.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  was of opinion, that the effect of the bill would be, to place borrowers at the mercy of lenders.
 Mr. Philips  supported the change of the law, disputing the assertion of the hon. alderman, as to the increase of the opponents of the bill. There never had been such a coincidence of testimony among intelligent men, as upon this question. They all agreed that the existing laws were injurious both to borrowers and lenders.
 Mr. Grenfell  was convinced that, even as the law now stood, money could never be obtained at a lower rate of interest than it was worth.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, that the passing of the bill before the House would be highly advantageous to the landed interest.
 Mr. Hutchinson  presented a petition, which, he said, he offered with pain and regret. It prayed, that the bill which had been brought in by the Attorney-general for Ireland, respecting the right of burial of the Catholics, might not pass into a law. He felt regret, because, whatever were the defects of the bill, if defects there were he had no doubt of the kind intentions of his right hon. friend, and of the Irish government on this subject; and he felt it his duty, as an Irish gentleman, to say that he considered Ireland deeply indebted to lord Wellesley for his unceasing anxiety to promote the welfare of Ireland, and that he was persuaded that if his excellency's administration had not succeeded to the extent of his excellency's wishes in restoring peace and quiet, it was not for want of his earnest exertions. The petition was from Mr. Devereux, a Catholic gentleman of great fortune, of the county of Wexford; and Mr. Eneas Macdonald, of the county of Mayo. It prayed that the bill might not pass into a law. 40 41
 Mr. Sykes  said, that the opposition to the measure must proceed upon the apprehension, that the rate of interest would be increased; but he was satisfied that any such fear was totally unfounded.
 Mr. Curwen  said, he should oppose the measure.
 Mr. Monck  remarked, that money on mortgage bore a higher rate of interest than money advanced on good bills, be-
 39
 Mr. T. Wilson  argued, that such an alteration ought not to be made but at the request of the landed interest. Whenever other persons were paying 5 per cent, landed proprietors would be obliged to pay 7 per cent. The repeal of the present law would be beneficial to Ireland.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  observed, that money could not now be obtained on mortgage, at a less rate of interest than 4½ per cent.
 Sir H. Parnell  spoke to the respectability of the petitioners, and to their ability to judge upon this question. He hoped that the House would attend to the strong arguments which the petition contained.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the course taken by the hon. member had not a little surprised him. He had moved for papers, which he (Mr. P.) had not the least objection to produce, and, before they were produced, he had entered into details on the subject, which shewed how little value he attached to the papers called for. The hon. member had, however, thus rendered it necessary for him to say a few words on the subject. The question was, what was the best arrangement for the appointment of attorney-general for the Isle of Man. The hon. mover admitted, that the attorney-general should not be an individual from the Manx bar; and indeed it was clear to every one that, with the important functions he had to perform, it was most desirable that he should be a lawyer versed in the liberal principles of English jurisprudence; which nothing but practice in the English courts would give. Being agreed on this point, in what way should they proceed? He must say, that in an island with so limited a revenue as the Isle of Man, expense was a material consideration, and though the hon. member was very liberal in his proposal of giving 1,000 l l l l l l 44 l l
 Sir G. Clerk  said the expences of this establishment had been reduced to the lowest possible scale. He was sure the House would not think there had been any improvidence in the management of the funds for this great national work, when he stated that it was likely to be completed at a sum less by 200,000 l
 Sir I. Coffin  said there had never been a work of so much importance conducted in so economical a manner. It had completely answered the public expectations; for one of the most unsafe anchorages with which he had been acquainted, had now become a perfect mill-pond. Ten thou-sand advantages had accrued from this great national undertaking, which had never been contemplated: and if it had cost half as much as the national debt, he should not have grudged it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he felt himself bound, in justice to the hon. baronet opposite, and his friends, to say a few words in explanation of the remark attributed to him on a former evening. The words quoted against him, as to monopolies, were correct; but the spirit of them had been a little mistaken. They had been used, he believed, with reference to some part of a petition, complaining of combination, presented by one of the hon. members for the city of London; certainly, without any intention of casting a slur upon individuals. Because, in fact, if the legislature had given the northern coal-owners a practical monopoly, no one could blame them for availing themselves of it All he had said was this—that if they had by law the practical power of a monopoly, might it not be fit to alter the state of the law, whether they actually made use of that power or not? With respect to the reduction which he had proposed in the duty upon inland coal, he was desirous, in fact, only to rectify a kind of mistake that had been committed. The existing law restricted the importation of inland coal into London to annually 50,000 tons. It appeared, therefore, that the law thought that, with safety to the northern interests, 50,000 tons might actually be admitted: but the duty which this coal paid prevented 50,000 tons, or a tenth part of 50,000 tons, from being sent; so that, in fact, it made the resolution as to the quantity which might come altogether nugatory, and imposed
 60 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had no objection to the motion. As to the other points to which the hon. member had alluded, he did not know that he could give him any answer, that the hon. gentleman would consider satisfactory. He had lately looked with some attention at the subject of stamps, and particularly at that part of it which involved the legacy duties. He had not, however, been yet able to satisfy himself, as to what he could and ought to do by way of relief. He admitted that the matters to which the hon. member had alluded deserved his most serious attention; but in saying so he begged not to be understood as holding out any expectations either one way or the other. After the statement which he had recently made to the House respecting the finances of the country, it could not be expected that he would willingly consent to any material diminution of the revenue; at the same time, it was no less his wish than his duty to give the community every relief in his power upon those minor matters which, without diminishing the revenue, were likely to render the raising of it less severely felt by the public.
 Lord Binning  said, there was one point connected with this subject to which the hon. member for Aberdeen had not adverted. He alluded to the tax on legacies left for charitable purposes. He thought this part of the subject deserved the attention of the chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Colonel Wood  said, that the argument had been almost entirely conducted, as if it only referred to a struggle or competition between the Staffordshire and the northern coal-owners about the monopoly of the London market. The fact was, that there could not, in the nature of things, be any such question. There was no competition, there could be none, between the two classes of coals; so great were the natural advantages on one side. As proofs of the truth of this assertion, the committee had only to notice what was the effect of the competition, slight as it was, which already existed. The northern coals which came into the ports of London ascended the Thames, charged with all these extraordinary and unequal duties, as high as the stone at Staines; they went on to Windsor, and even as far as Reading, where they met the inland coals, charged with no duty whatever. Now, let the committee observe the result of this conflict. The inland coals could not keep the markets into which the northern coals entered, charged with the heavy duties, and the extraordinary expense of freight incurred in ascending the Thames; but they were pushed back into their own domicile, where alone they could get and keep any steady rate of consumption. A good fire was, doubtless, a very comfortable thing: but, was not plenty of light also a very comfortable thing? For his part, if it were a matter of choice with him, he could not hesitate a moment in preferring light to fire. He would, therefore, prefer the repeal of the window-tax to the repeal of the coal duties. It was difficult to manage questions of this kind with the chancellor of the Exchequer. He well recollected the hon. member for Surrey saying, on a former occasion, with respect to the coal duties, that he had a substitute to propose in his pocket, but he would not take it out, for fear the chancellor of the Exchequer should not only retain the tax, but add the substitute to it. In all probability, that substitute was a duty at the pit's mouth; and if so, he advised all
 64
 Sir T. Lethbridge  pressed for the repeal of the malt or window tax, in preference to the duty on coals, and complained, in strong terms of the monopoly enjoyed by the proprietors of coal pits.
 Alderman Wood  begged it might be understood, that the reduction in the duty was an advantage to the public, and not confined, as had been stated, to the coal owners. It had already had an effect on the bargains, and there could be no doubt that the public would be benefitted to the whole extent of the 3 s d
 Mr. Cuthbert Ellison  denied the existence of any combination among the coal-owners of the north, and trusted that no one would continue to impute it to them, after the manner in which it had been disavowed. The reduction proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer, in the duty upon inland coal, seemed to him not to be justified upon any sound principle. The fluctuation which took place in the price of coals in the London market, arose out of causes with which the pit-owners had nothing to do. They arose almost entirely in the pool, and might be checked, in a considerable degree, by a change of the city regulations.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that if he thought that any benefit could possibly arise from the hon. baronet's recommendation, he would be the very last man to object to it. When the duty on coals carried coastwise was first projected, the principles of political economy were not so well known as they were at present. It was then felt, that coals borne by sea had a very great advantage over those which were carried by land; and it should be observed, that at that period the conveyance by canal was extremely limited. The sea was an open navigation; it afforded advantages not possessed by any other mode of conveyance, and therefore duties were imposed on that species of carriage. In 1805, when the Grand Junction canal was finished, it was deemed proper to place a heavy duty on coals carried through that channel. This he looked upon as a great injustice. If it were intended to place a tax on inland coals, why was it confined to only part of the inland trade, whilst every other portion of it was suffered to remain untaxed? There were hundreds of places where inland coal came in competition with the sea-borne coal. Here only it was excluded. If the right hon. gentleman did not repeal the tax in this solitary instance, the owners of inland coal had a much greater right to complain of injustice than the northern coal-owners This tax on inland coal was imposed in 1805. At that period, the Grand-Junction company had nearly completed their undertaking. The northern coal-owners, afraid that inland coal would be brought to their market by that canal, contrived, that a clause, which prevented the importation of such coal, should be introduced, under the mask of protecting the revenue. Those gentlemen, not content with preventing inland coal from coming into the London market, as the sea-coal did, procured the insertion of a provision in the bill, which gave to their coals a monopoly, not merely of the London market, but of the country, for seventeen miles round it.
 58 l l l 59
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  said, an hon. baronet had been mistaken in supposing that the proposed reduction of the duty was considered by the city of London as a trifling matter. The reason which had induced them to wish that some part of the London port duty should be retained, arose from their wish to embellish and improve the city by widening streets and turning corners; to which purposes the sums raised by those duties were applied.
 Mr. H. Sumner  thought the coal-trade had a paramount claim to relief, and trusted that the chancellor of the Exchequer would, whenever the opportunity should occur, extend it as far as possible beyond what was now proposed.
 General Gascoyne  said, that before Mr. Clarke held the office of attorney-general for the Isle of Man, it had always been considered a sinecure. The salary had, however, been recently increased, in order to obtain the occasional residence of that officer, which had been recommended by lord Sidmouth. Now, Mr. Clarke, from residing in Lancashire, was at no great distance from the Isle of Man, and was always willing to repair thither, whenever he thought his presence would be advantageous.
 Mr. Stuart Wortley  said, that the northern coal-owners asked for no advantage over the inland proprietors, except the advantage which they had received from nature. They had the best article to sell, and the cheapest; and all they required was, to be let alone with it. They asked for no duties to be imposed upon others; they only wished to be relieved from unreasonable duties which were imposed upon themselves. Now, hon. gentlemen talked of the antiquity of those duties. Certainly, they had lasted a great deal too long: but would any one argue that they had ever been imposed upon any thing like a principle of trade, or with any other view than that of extracting revenue from a commodity which was supposed to be well calculated to afford it? Was the House aware that the average price of coals was 13 s s s s d 62
 Mr. Curwen,  in reply, said, he should not have troubled the House with any observations; had he been aware that the right hon. gentleman would have assented to his motion, but as he had not felt secure of that assent, he had thought it necessary to lay before the House the grounds on which he deemed himself entitled to the production of the papers. He by no means meant to say that a salary of 400 l l 46
 Mr. Curwen,  in rising, according to notice, to move for a copy of the appointment of the Attorney-general of the Isle of Man, said, that he was not at all influenced by any personal or local feelings, and that his only object was, to procure an equal administration of justice for all parties. The hon. member then went into a detail of the grounds of his motion. He said, that an opinion of the attorney-general of England, in 1789, had recommended, that the attorney-general of the Isle of Man should always be taken from the English bar; an opinion, of which every one who considered the situation of the Island would acknowledge the justness. The governor and lieutenant-governor of that Island sat under their commissions in the court of Chancery, and the attorney-general acted as their assessor. It was, therefore, of the utmost importance, that a person should
 42 l l l l l 43
 Mr. Lambton  said, that having a great personal interest in the present question—a much greater interest, perhaps, than any of the hon. gentlemen who had preceded him—he certainly would best consult his own feelings by remaining entirely silent. He, however, rose in consequence of some observations that had been made, to state a few facts, in justification of the proprietors of coal mines in the North, He was induced to do so in consequence of what had fallen from the chancellor of the Exchequer, and, in still stronger terms from the hon. baronet below him. He would state, in the name of those gentlemen, that there was no foundation whatever for the charge, that the proprietors of coal mines in the North had entered into any combination to limit the supply of coals in the London market. Whatever resolutions they had entered into were not for the purpose of limiting the supply, but for the purpose of insuring to the city of London, a regular and constant supply of coals, at every season of the year. In confirmation of the truth of that assertion he would appeal to the increased supply of each year. On every market day there were more ships in the river than there were purchasers. The proprietors of the coal-mines in the North looked not for monopoly—they disclaimed all monopoly—they never aspired to it—the existence of monopoly was as odious in their eyes, as in the eyes of any member in that House. The monopoly which had been created, had been created by the government, for its own purposes, and not to serve the proprietors of coal-mines. Those gentlemen did not seek to retain any monoply. All they asked for was a clear stage and no favour. They wished to bring coals to the London market on fair terms. He thought it was hard that those gentlemen should be driven out of the London market without having an opportunity afforded to them of exporting their coals to foreign ports. There were no less than 400,000 chaldrons of inferior coals allowed to rot in the North
 66
 Mr. Lockhart  suggested, that considerable cxpence and inconvenience, to which legatees residing in the country were exposed, might be removed, if the arch-bishop of Canterbury were to appoint standing commissioners in the several counties.
 Mr. Tremayne  supported the resolutions.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was his intention to move for a copy of the expenses attendant upon those proceedings.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had received a communication, calling on him to request the postponement of this measure until its contents were known in Ireland. Only a few days had elapsed since it was brought into the House, and it had since been hurried forward, before its object was known to the people of Ireland. Under these circumstances, he asked whether it would not be better to postpone the third reading for eight or ten days, until the opinion of the people of Ireland respecting it was ascertained.
 Mr. Hume  rose to call the attention of the House to a branch of the revenue which, though small in amount, was the source of great trouble and vexation to the persons on whom it was levied. He alluded to the legacy-duty on sums which did not exceed 100 l l l 47 l l l l l s d s l l l l l l l l l 48 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that his hon. friend had not intended to blame the government for the system at present adopted; but he thought that the conditions on which Mr. Clarke got his appointment should be fulfilled by that gentleman, as
 45 l l 500 l
 Mr. N. Calvert  objected to the strange proposition of the noble lord, that because a tax of most unjust imposition had continued for a long time, it was not, therefore a less proper subject for repeal. He
 65
 Mr. W. Courtenay  wished that a tax so full of extreme hardship and impolicy, raised upon one of the essential articles; of life, could be entirely done away with He expatiated upon the benefits which a
 63
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that the statement of his right hon. friend, as to the mode in which the duties of the office were executed, rendered it unnecessary for him to make a single observation. He would observe, however, that, in point of principle, he thought it desirable that the attorney-general should not reside personally on the island, as it excluded the possibility of that officer mixing himself up with the party differences, which prevailed in the island. If the office were to be vacant to-morrow, he would rather give it to a person of professional eminence, who might go occasionally to the island, than to a person who might be willing to accept it on the condition of permanent residence.
 Mr. Money  said, there were two points to which he hoped the attention of the right hon. gentleman would be directed. The first was, the importance of the coal-trade as a nursery for seamen, and as one of the chief sources of the strength of the British navy. The other was the advantages experienced by the port of London from the quantity of ballast which was taken from the bed of the river for the use of the colliers on their homeward voyages. He trusted that care would be taken that nothing in the operation of the proposed resolutions would affect cither of these important topics.
 Mr. Peel  said, as it was a subject which had already created much angry dispute, and, if not settled, was calculated to produce much more, he deemed it advisable to proceed with the bill. At present, one party in Ireland alleged, that another was doing that which was contrary to law; and as this bill would prevent all further doubt on the subject, it was proper to avoid unnecessary delay.
 Mr. Peel  asked the hon. member, how it was possible that residence in the Isle of Man could be made an indispensable condition of Mr. Clarke's holding the situation of attorney-general, when it was notorious, that he had duties to fill at Liverpool as recorder?
 Sir John Wrottesley  was sorry to see an opposition to the chancellor of the Exchequer's intention in favour of the inland coal, because most of the persons interested in that proposed measure had left town, not anticipating any resistance to it. At present, the House would see that the duty on inland coal amounted to a prohibition; for such a quantity as 900 or 1,200 tons in a year could have no view to general consumption, and, in fact, was only brought to London for certain specific purposes. Surely, if there was any likelihood of combination among the coal-owners of the north, the true way to defeat it was, to give every facility to the inland coal-owners; among whom the mode of working made combination impossible. He admitted, that very little of the inland coal, under any circumstances, would come into the London market; but it was fair to the coal-owner, as well as for the advantage of the consumer, that it should have the power, up to a certain point, of coming there. At present, however, the Staffordshire proprietors were actually in apprehension that the northern owners would not merely keep possession of London, but compete with them in their own markets.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  presented a petition from the proprietors of collieries on the rivers Tyne and Wear; setting forth: 50 s d s d s d s s d s s
 Sir M. W. Ridley  observed, that the petition which he had just presented from the coal-owners of the North embraced the principle which he felt it his duty to support. The question he wished to bring under their consideration was extremely important; and he requested the attention of the committee, for a short time, while he laid down the grounds on which the proposition he intended to conclude with was founded. His object was, that the alterations proposed to be made by the chancellor of the Exchequer in the coal duties should be re-considered, before they were ultimately carried into effect. Those alterations would he was convinced, considerably injure the coal-trade of London, if not of the country at large, and were, as it appeared to him, founded on an absurd and unjust principle of taxation. He was sure that no one who had heard the right hon. gentleman, when he detailed to the House the financial situation of the country, or who had read the speech which he made on that occasion, could feel other sensations than those of pleasure at the recognition of the principles of free trade by which that speech was distinguished—principles which were then generally approved of and asserted. But in proportion as he felt pleased at that exposition, did he afterwards feel dissatisfied when he found that the right hon. gentleman had so soon forgotten the principles of equal taxation, and adopted a partial and unfair system with respect to two commodities of the same kind. When the right hon. gentleman, at the period to which he had alluded, expressed his intention of making an alteration in the duty on rum, he had said, "It is my intention to propose a reduction in the duty on rum, so as to relieve it from one of the peculiar difficulties under which it labours, by reducing that duty to the level of the duty on British spirits. No one, I presume, can think it desirable to reduce the duty on rum lower than the duty on spirits produced by British distillation. All that can be done with propriety is, to put them on the same footing! I propose, therefore, to make a reduction of one shilling and three half-pence a gallon in the duty on rum." Here was a principle of fair and. just taxation laid down in one instance; and he could not conceive why, in legislating on another, the right hon. gentleman had thought fit to
 52 * * 53 54 s d s d s d s d s d 55 56 s s s d s 57 s s d s
 Sir T. Acland  supported the plan of the chancellor of the Exchequer and hoped that it would lead to the entire repeal of the coal duties.
 Lord Milton  said, he would have given the preference to the repeal of either the window or malt duty. He could not compliment either the justice or the policy of this repeal. It appeared to him to be as objectionable to proceed by favour, in the repeal of taxes, as in their imposition. The right hon. gentleman seemed in this affair to have acted as if he had a surplus revenue of 100,000 l l
 Mr. Grenfell  rose to move the second reading of this bill, and stated, that he should have confined himself according to the usual practice, to moving the second reading, in order, when that motion was carried, to refer it to a committee up stairs
 96
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  said, that having presented two petitions against this bill, it should have his most determined opposition. He was surprised that his majesty's ministers should have given the measure any countenance by suspending the standing orders, when they found that its execution would be an act of tyranny and cruelty towards a large body of individuals. It was a cruel attack upon individual rights, without any paramount necessity. Let the supporters of the bill be called upon to show that the growing trade of the port of London indispensably required the new dock; but they knew that to attempt such proof was impossible, since it was notorious, that many of the existing dock companies had plenty of room unoccupied. There were in London at present six dock companies: two of them paid no interest; one paid 3½ per cent; the London Dock paid 4½ per cent; and two others, paid more than 5 per cent; because one of them had enjoyed a particular monopoly, which had just ceased, and the other had a monopoly which would expire in two
 99
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was so far cognisant of this bill, that the parties interested in it had, in the early part of the year, come before his majesty's government, to know whether they would have any objection to the measure. The answer given by the government was, that, in point of principle, they saw no objection to the establishment of a new dock, if it could be shewn that benefit to the public would result from it. So far they had expressed acquiescence; but they certainly were not aware of all the circumstances of the case. When so many interests were affected, the question as to the standing orders became one of considerable importance; and undoubtedly, if the standing orders had been strictly enforced, the bill would not have arrived at its present stage. Under all the circumstances, he thought it would be better to allow the bill to be read a second time, and to investigate its merits in the committee. If it should then appear, that the bill could not pass without occasioning great hardship to a number of individuals, this would certainly constitute a ground for its rejection at the present time. On the other hand, it might turn out, that the case, as it affected those individuals, had been greatly over-stated. Most of them, for instance, might be tenants at will; and in that case, the degree of hardship would be much less, because they would be compelled to quit, if the proprietors of the soil were disposed to acquiesce in the propositions of the subscribers to the dock. He repeated, that in principle he had no objection to the measure of erecting a new dock, with a view to extended competition and increased commercial advantages; and he could not object, therefore, to the second reading of the bill.
 Mr. Grenfell,  in reply, said, that so far from 10,000 persons being exposed to inconvenience from this measure, the whole number of inhabitants within the precincts of the parish of St. Catherine did not amount to 5,000. He might add, too, that out of 11 or 1,200 householders, 300 had expressed their assent to the bill. Upwards of 1,100 of the principal mercantile gentlemen in the country had concurred in the expediency of the measure.
 Mr. Bernal  said, it appeared that there was to be a keeper of the gallery, at a salary of 200 l l
 Sir C. Long  spoke in terms of the strongest praise of the pictures which formed the late Mr. Angerstein's collection. They were selected by the judgment of sir T. Lawrence, and appeared, on inspection, so exquisite to his majesty, that he it was who had first suggested the propriety of purchasing them for the nation. Indeed, they were generally considered the finest models of art that could be submitted to the contemplation of the artist. He agreed with his hon. friend, that the plan which the government ought to pursue in forming this gallery, would not, be to purchase whole collections, but to buy
 103
 Mr. A. Ellis  bore testimony to the qualifications of the gentleman appointed to superintend the collection. He wished to know, however who was to superintend the superintendent?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the general control and superintendence would be in the Lords of the Treasury. He did not apprehend, however, that it would be necessary to exercise that control with any degree of violence.
 Sir C. Long  trusted, that he had convinced the committee, upon a former evening, that there was no reason to complain of the trustees of the British Museum. Indeed, he had cause to believe, that the hon. member for Shrewsbury who had brought forward the charge against them, was convinced that it did not rest upon any accurate foundations.
 Mr. A. Ellis  was so far from thinking that there was any ground of complaint against the trustees of the British Museum, that he had been about to suggest, that they should also be made trustees of this national gallery.
 Colonel Davies  objected to the item in this grant, charging 2,300 l 106
 Mr. W. Horton  observed, that the item in question was a payment made on account of the government of the island of Malta. A special injunction had been given to that government to make inquiry whether the parties who received these pensions were entitled to be considered as knights of Malta. That inquiry was not in progress; and it was thought right not to withdraw the pensions until it was concluded? The pensions had been granted to the parties who now held them from motives of humanity, during the French revolution—an event which had reduced the greater portion of them from comparative opulence to the most wretched state of want and destitution.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  understood the hon. member to say, that he could throw out some suggestions by which the expenses of Guernsey and Jersey might be lessened If the hon. member would favour him with those suggestions, they should receive the fullest attention. It was his duty to listen to such communications; and, if a curtailment of expense could be effected, that object certainly should not be neglected. When the hon. gentleman presented to the House the rather extraordinary document (for it was not a petition, but a two or three months' tour through Guernsey) to which he had alluded, he would read it with attention. With respect to the military part of the question, he might observe, that the constitution of these islands was of a very ancient date, and that no individuals were more jealous of their old customs than the inhabitants were. According to their laws, every male, from sixteen to sixty, was bound to military service. But it was deemed better to have a few expert soldiers, than an undisciplined rabble; which would probably be the case if they were left to clothe and arm themselves; and therefore it was necessary that a staff should be kept up.
 Mr. W. Horton  said, the experiment was an important and a useful one. The commissioners who were now in the West-India islands had made a report on the subject, which would be laid before parliament. It would then be for the House to decide, whether this establishment should or should not be kept up.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that as to the time, this honour was not of a recent date. It was conferred several years ago, when a similar mark of respect was bestowed on the king of Denmark, and
 109
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, the appointment took place in 1821, under an act of the legislature. At that time more fear was entertained of the danger which might be expected from the explosion of gas than at present. In 1817 and 1818 two acts were passed, which gave to the secretary of state the power of appointing an inspector. The appointment, therefore, was not in the crown, but in the secretary of state under the act of parliament. The hon. baronet had proved himself to be a most useful officer, and he received no more than a remuneration for the actual expenses he incurred. He had reported last year that the same degree of apprehension no longer existed as was formerly entertained; but still it was thought expedient, that the secretary of state should have an opportunity of knowing how the gas-works were going on; and he hoped, that next year, the same skilful individual would give him the benefit of his scientific knowledge. As this was not a new appointment under the Crown, it did not come under the ate of queen Anne; and of course did not vacate the hon. baronet'sseat.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that Mr. Millington, to whom the hon. member had just adverted, said in his evidence, with respect to the danger from, the explosion of gasometers, that the blowing up of the one in Dorset-street would probably bring down all the adjacent houses in Fleet-street. Dr. Wollaston, too, had distinctly declared, that' his opinion as to the properties of gas had been altered by that very report of sir W. Congreve, to which the hon. member for Aberdeen objected. The most respectable chemical authorities, sir H. Davy among the rest, had spoken in strong terms of the danger likely to arise from the explosion of gas; and the House would say, under such
 112
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that he claimed from the secretary for the home department, in behalf of the city of London, that the gas-master, or general inspector, or whatever designation that wonderful person bore, should inspect the Mansion-house. There was a very large gasometer there, over which he himself had slept for two years. He spoke for the safety of future lord mayors, as it was most probable he should not, though he hoped frequently to dine, sleep there again. There was another gasometer, too, at the Bank, which perhaps would not be the worse for an occasional call, on the part; of the gas-master.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he rose rather in fulfilment of a pledge into which he had been seduced a few nights ago by the soft persuasion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, than from any admission that the question required more ample argument; and still less did he feel it necessary to rise for the purpose of making any acknowledgment that, on any former occasion of discussing the principles of this bill, his own sentiments required any, even the slightest qualification. The hon. member for Aberdeen, in a style half complimentary to him, and half composed of serious censure on the measure itself, had done him the honour to oppose the principle of the bill to that which he deemed to be the general character and genius of his (Mr. Canning's) policy. If, however, the hon. gentleman should find any thing contradictory to the opinions which he had formed of him, in the arguments he was about to use in support of the measure; if he should find any thing which he might conceive to be opposed to the opinions which he (Mr. Canning) had professed, he would enable the hon. gentleman to thread those differences, to reconcile those seeming contradictions in his expressions, by producing, in one word, the clue of the labyrinth—the shiboleth of his (Mr. C.'s) policy upon this and every other public question; and that word was "England." His wish was only that of being found siding, on all divisions of opinions, with the interests of his country. 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128
 Mr. Secretary Canning. —Well, any "considerable armament;" and, let them see, if the hon. and learned gentleman tried other powers fairly, by this rule. What we had a right to say of France, France and other countries had a fair right to say of us. They might declare, that they would consider any armament sailing from j the ports of England for South America as a British armament; and his hon. and learned friend would admit, that this kingdom was at least as responsible for what was done upon her own soil, as France was responsible for what was done in Spain. Now, he said, that the Foreign Enlistment bill alone prevented the fitting out of armaments in British ports, and that the Alien bill alone kept foreigners under control, and prevented their treasonable machinations. If you stripped the Crown of the powers thereby given, there was no physical impediment to any number of foreigners, whether beaten or triumphant, coming to Plymouth or Portsmouth, fitting out an armament there, and sailing with it for the conquest of South America, whether for Ferdinand or his enemies. If France were to place herself in such a situation, we. should instantly assert, that it afforded a ground for going
 129 130 131 132 133 "London! the needy villain's general home; The common sink of Paris and of Rome!" 134
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he felt it necessary, in consequence of what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, to declare, that government had not received their information on the subject of the plot of which he had spoken from any foreign power.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he would not have risen at all that evening, had it not been for the very pointed manner in which he had been alluded to by the right hon. gentleman opposite. It was, however, not a little gratifying to him to find, that, after all the blame which had been cast upon government, and after the many propositions which had been made for altering the constitution of that House, the right hon. gentleman himself was candid enough to acknowledge, that not only had the country been triumphant in war, but that with respect to her internal affairs, she was contented, happy, and prosperous. The right hon. gentleman's arguments against the bill were founded upon two assumptions; namely, those which refer to the motives of its first introduction, and to the objects to which it was to be applied, now that it had been introduced. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the Alien act was first proposed, in consequence of an understanding amongst the sovereigns of the continent, that liberty was every where to be put down. Now, he must say, that he had never heard of any such understanding, and that, for his part, no consideration on earth could ever have' tempted him, as an Englishman, and a minister of England, to propose a measure professedly for the internal security of this country, which had been either dictated or proposed by a foreign power. The object of the bill, according to the interpretation of the right hon. gentleman, was, to prevent the distressed from finding an asylum in this country. He could Only meet that assertion, by stating, the
 144 145 146
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  justified the conduct of government in the treatment of general Gourgaud, and the other members of the suite of Buonaparte, and argued
 119
 Mr. C. Calvert  said, he could not be influenced to oppose the bill by any interest in the existing Dock companies, as he was not a proprietor in any one of them; but he opposed it on this ground, that there was at present accommodation for hundreds of thousands of tons of goods more than were brought to this country. He alluded particularly to the warehouses in the parishes of St. Olave and St. John's, Southwark, where gentlemen had invested their fortunes in warehouses, and whose rights ought not to be interfered with without necessity. He moved, "that the bill be read a second time this day six months."
 Mr. Littleton  opposed the bill, on the same grounds as the hon. member for Bristol. Every bill of this kind was an invasion of private property, for an alleged public purpose; and the thousands of persons whose property and means of living were affected by the bill, were—at least—intifled to notice. There could be no better occasion than the present, for setting their faces against the session-ally increasing disregard of their standing orders.
 Mr. Agar Ellis  said, he could not refrain from expressing his thanks to his majesty's government for having purchased this valuable collection of pictures. He was sure that every person who was at all acquainted with the arts, would agree with him in saying, that no private collection of pictures could be better suited to form the basis of a national gallery. All the pictures were of the very first excellence. Indeed, there was not one of them which it would not be almost a calumny to call a moderate picture. He trusted that the present would form a new era in the history of the arts in this country, and that the advantage which was now given to our own school of painting, by placing before it first-rate models, would tend to
 102
 Mr. Canning  said, the hon member had been quite misinformed, if he supposed that such a request as he had alluded to had been made by his majesty's government. It did not follow, as the hon. gentleman seemed to think, that a reduction of expense should naturally attend a reduction in the rank of the ambassador sent to this court from Holland. He believed that for fifty years, it had been the constant policy of this country to have an ambassador of the first class at the Hague, even though the Dutch ambassador was not of equal rank.
 Mr. Canning. —"No."
 Mr. Dawson  defended the appointment of sir W. Congreve.
 Mr. Tierney  begged to ask, whether the information had proceeded from any persons who had been employed by government to look after aliens?
 Mr. Tierney  next addressed the House, but for some moments he spoke in a tone quite too low to be audible in the gallery. He observed, that he felt it necessary to offer a few remarks to the House after the extraordinary speech of the right hon. secretary, in which he had throughout defended the bill, and had nevertheless expressed his readiness to abandon it for a more mild measure. If ever he had heard a speech an hour and a half long in that House, in which the speaker more decidedly looked one way and rowed another, it was that which the right hon. gentleman had just delivered; and, if he were one of the right hon. gentleman's followers in that House, he should think that, on the present occasion, he might vote against his patron, without much risk of giving offence. The right hon. secretary had charged gentlemen on the Opposition side with the figure of speech called exaggeration; as if he himself had not condescended to borrow a little from fancy in the course of his address. Why, the right hon. gentleman's speech was full of fanciful images—of aliens coming over in thousands and thousands, fitting out armaments, and then taking (as the sailors say) a fresh departure, to conquer their own country. The House had heard these fanciful statements, and they had also heard the right hon. gentleman charge others with making too free a use of the figure called exaggeration! But the right hon. gentleman stated that his object in supporting this bill was to support the interests of England. The House, however, had all this at second-hand—the right hon. gentleman having already announced it at one of those travelling parties which he had got round him in his late tour. It was stated in the hearing of the mayor, aldermen, and burgesses of Plymouth; and no doubt they must have been astounded at the declaration then, as the House was now. Now, he would take the right hon. gentleman's own text; and say,
 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143
 Mr. Bright  contended, that the standing orders ought to be enforced. Here was a whole town thrown into confusion' by a sudden project, of which the parties who were to be expelled from their homes had no notice until the 6th of March. If a new dock was required, why not give due notice? What necessity was there for pressing the bill until next year? The fact was, that the parties would, by the delay, be compelled to pay a larger price for the ground than its present value. They ought to uphold their standing orders, which enjoined due notice, or else abandon them altogether.
 Mr. Leslie Foster  said, that the possibility of the explosion of gasometers was sufficiently proved by the fact, that one gasometer had exploded and done considerable, mischief. He certainly approved of the appointment of an inspector.
 Mr. Lambton  observed, that the hon. baronet, in his reports, had furnished suggestions of considerable importance; some of which had been acted upon. Every one who knew the extreme danger to be apprehended from the explosion of those gasometers, must be pleased to see the attention of a gentleman of so much science and knowledge directed to the subject. He thought that the right hon. secretary, in continuing the office, did nothing more than his duty. The salary paid to the hon. baronet, was, he thought quite inadequate to his services.
 Mr. Lambton  said, that the hon. member for Aberdeen had treated him as an interested party in the present discussion, because he might be supposed to supply the article from which the gas was manufactured. The hon. member, however, if there were any force in his argument, would stand, in his own person, exposed to the effect of it; for, if he did not absolutely supply the gas companies with the material from which their smoke was produced, they might go to him, if they pleased, for the pipes which conveyed it.
 Mr. J. Smith  could not discover in the copy of the bill which he had seen, any sufficient necessity for the measure. This perhaps might be shown in the committee; but, unless that was done, he should object to interfere, to the extent that was proposde, with private property.
 Mr. Butterworth  opposed the bill, as a measure which would entail ruin on thousands.
 Mr. Hume  expressed himself well satisfied with the observations which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, and said, that if there were any points on which he differed from him, they might be discussed when the right hon. gentleman brought his bill before the House. He would take that opportunity of expressing his thanks to the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs, for the attention which he had paid to a subject, in which, though he was not himself personally concerned, the public were largely interested. He alluded to our trade with the Brazils. He could not at present say what effect the regulations which the right hon. secretary had made might have produced abroad; but this he could not say, that they had given perfect satisfaction to all persons at home engaged in that trade. Before he sat down, he would suggest to the right hon. president of the board of trade, whether it would not be advisable, in any future regulation, to prevent consuls from deputing their duties at will to any person, they might choose to appoint as vice-consuls.
 Mr. Hume  wished to draw the attention of the committee to the very great expense to which this country was put, on account of the islands of Guernsey and Jersey. They were, so far as this country was concerned, altogether free from taxation: the revenue of the Crown was wasted; at least no part of it was appropriated to the service of the islands, and the people of England were constantly called on to meet every expense. He observed a charge of 4,471 l 107
 Mr. Hume  rose to ask a question. Was it to be understood, that, after this grant was made to the consuls and vice-consuls in Spanish America, the British trade in that quarter of the globe was to be free from the imposition of any further toll, to them? He did not object to the amount of the salaries which it was proposed to give these gentlemen; for he thought that they would not get men of respectability to fill them, unless they were properly remunerated. He was, however, anxious, that our different consuls should be paid by the public, and should be debarred from receiving any fees, save such as were merely nominal, upon the delivery of certificates required in the course of trade. Whilst he was upon the subject, he would suggest a plan to his majesty's ministers, which several eminent merchants had informed him was calculated to obviatmany of the vexatious difficulties whice they sometimes experienced in foreign countries, owing to the uncertain nature of our consular fees. The plan was this— that the captain of any ship, on clearing out for a foreign port at the custom-house should be entitled to ask and receive a printed copy of the consular charges at all the ports at which he was likely to touch in the course of his voyage. It might be said, that such a plan could not be put into execution without some expense. He allowed that it would occasion some trifling expense; but it ought not to be regarded, when it was considered that it was incurred on behalf of the commerce of the country, and that that commerce was the chief source of its strength and revenue. He was certain that if our consuls were paid fixed salaries and were only allowed to receive certain small stated fees, many of the difficulties would be removed with which our commerce was at present impeded.
 Mr. Hume  observing a charge for ex-
 110
 Mr. Hume  wished to make a few observations on the charge relative to foreign ambassadors. He had last year shown, that the expense, on an average of the five preceding years, was 300,000 l grade
 Mr. Hume  said, he had stated, four or five years ago, that these slaves were perfectly competent to support themselves. In the possession of an individual, they would be a property; but in the hands of government they became an expense. If they were set free to-morrow they would maintain themselves, without assistance from this country. Such was the plain state of the case. He wanted no report from the commissioners to enable him to decide on a subject of which he could judge as well as themselves. He now begged leave to draw the attention of the House to a charge of 620 l
 Mr. Hume  directed the attention of the committee to an item of 1,810 l.,
 Mr. Hume  said, that sufficient notice had not been given. There were 10,000 people who were entitled to six or eight months notice under the standing orders. These orders, which were rules for the protection of private property, should not be slightly superseded. On this ground, he should oppose the second reading.
 Mr. Hume  said, that as it was at last determined to make a national gallery, and by so doing to rescue the country from a disgrace which the want of such an establishment had long entailed upon it, he trusted that responsible individuals would be selected to take care of the pictures which had already been purchased. Some regulation of that nature was rendered necessary, by the recollection of the injury which had been sustained in the British Museum by the want of it.
 Mr. Hume  said, there was no such word as "constitutional" in the paper; the words were "continental despots."
 Mr. Hume  denied the assertion, that sir W. Congreve had made valuable reports on which the gas-companies had acted. He had, it was true, made reports, in which he spoke a great deal about the danger of our being blown up by the ex-
 111
 Mr. Hume  said, that it had been the determination of a number of members of that House, who were decidedly hostile to the spirit and principle of the Alien bill, to allow no one stage to pass, but to resist its progress from its introduction. In consequence, however, of rumours that had transpired respecting certain views, supposed to be entertained by the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs, they were most solicitous to obtain the benefit of his information on the subject, and to hear, from such an authority, the arguments upon which he considered it expedient that such an unconstitutional measure should pass. On a former night it had been contended by the right hon. secretary for the home department, that the powers sought by this bill were powers which the kings of this country had, for centuries, in right of their prerogative, possessed. And yet there was a right hon. colleague of the right hon. secretary (Mr. Wynn) who had denied that such a power was vested in the throne. It was natural, therefore, between these two discordant authorities, sitting in the same cabinet, for members of that House to feel most solicitous to know the opinion of the right hon. the secretary for foreign affairs, and to be made acquainted with the views on which he recommended its adoption. What, he would ask him, did he discover in the internal state of our relations, or in the character of our foreign policy, to justify the passing of a bill, which was at variance with the ancient policy and acknowledged hospitality of the country? Could its adoption be accounted for under any other impression, than that there existed a secret understanding between our government and the absolute sovereigns of the continent, to act in concert against those whom these sovereigns were disposed to persecute; that whenever the emperor of Austria, or the king of France, were pleased to declare a foreigner obnoxious to them, he was to be expelled from our shores? If there was no such concert, no such secret understanding—surely the House had a right to be informed what the actual motives were, and to obtain the fullest explanation, before it agreed to continue an act so hostile to our national character. Was there no law on our Statute-book in favour of foreigners seeking the hospitality
 114 115
 Mr. N. Calvert  said, he was one of those who never would join in any language of abuse applied to the sovereigns of foreign states; because he could not stoop to do any thing so unfair as to attack those who, from distance, were disabled from defending themselves. He thought the practice, to say the least of it, might lead to great national mischief. He could not support the amendment, though he objected to the bill.
 Mr. N. Calvert  explained. He said, he had not wished to dictate any rule to guide the conduct of the House: he had only prescribed a rule for his own behaviour with respect to foreign governments, and the princes at the head of them.
 Mr. Wallace  said, that with respect to the question as to the standing orders, those orders had been repeatedly dispens-
 101
 Mr. T. Wilson  supported the bill. It was not enough to say, that there was room in the present docks, to render the establishment of new ones inexpedient. If the new Dock company could carry on the business at a cheaper rate; if they could afford better accommodation; or if the probability of a new and growing trade was made out, there was a good reason for passing the bill. The bonded trade could not be carried on in the warehouses that were not within docks.
 Sir W. Congreve  would only say, that he had accepted the situation in question, under a conscientious belief, that the duties of it were most necessary to be discharged. As far as his experience had gone, he thought inspection from time to time, very necessary. In one instance he had found a gasometer floating in coal tar, instead of water; coal tar being an article of the most combustible description. In other cases, large fires had been kept in the neighbourhood of the gasometers; which he considered unsafe. He had also recommended, as a general principle, the use of smaller gasometers; and in some quarters his suggestions had been adopted.
 Mr. Haldimand  said, it was perfectly true, that if consols had not been at 95, this undertaking might not have been thought of; but, if the interest of capital was so low that it forced itself into new channels and reduced the rate of profit in old ones, was it not natural that docks also should feel the influence; and how could that happen but through the competition of new companies? He corrected the statement of the gallant admiral, that this ground had been refused to the London Dock company. The fact was, that company had been authorized to purchase it, but had preferred a spot lower down, where they would have to pay less compensation money. The warehousing system could not be carried on, except in docks in the situation of the proposed one. He was not ashamed to avow himself one of the "18½ gentlemen" mentioned by the gallant admiral; but he should not have subscribed to it had he not conceived it would be a public benefit.
 Mr. Huskisson  was, to a certain degree, of the same opinion with the hon. member for Aberdeen, with regard to paying our consuls out of the public revenue. He intended, within a short period, to bring in a bill to enable government to pay them
 105
 Mr. Manning  said, he had presented a petition from the London Dock company against the bill, in which it was stated, that they had foundations laid for ware-houses capable of containing 2 or 300,000 tons of goods, which had not been pro-
 98
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that an extremely strong case had been made out against the violation of the standing orders, es-
 100
 The Speaker  ordered the paper to be handed to Mr. Hume, who, upon reading it, presented another copy, in which the words stood as he proposed. The amendment was put, and negatived without a division. Upon the motion, that the order of the day for the second reading of the bill be now read, the House divided: Ayes 120; Noes 67.
 The Speaker  having again read the amendment, loud laughter followed, on account of the word "constitutional," which was then found in it.
 Sir J. Mackintosh. —I said, if any "considerable armament" were fitted out in Spain against South America, whilst that country was in the occupation of the French army, it ought to be considered as a French armament.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, he should fire off his squib against this little blue-eyed nun of St. Catherine's. He understood this piece of business was supported by eighteen gentlemen and a half; that was to say, by eighteen gentlemen who put down 50,000 l l
 Sir Robert Wilson  said, he rose to defend the right of the members of that House to express themselves freely upon the conduct of foreign potentates, and to repel the contrary principle implied in the observations of his hon. friend. They were bound to call things by their right names. If those sovereigns were tyrants, no gentleman could be wrong in designating them accordingly. It was not simply their right to do so; it was their duty to use that language towards them, which would best express the opinion the parliament of England entertained of their conduct, and to admonish the people of England of the steps which had been taken to give due expression to that opinion. When his hon. friend talked of those sovereigns having no means of defending themselves in that House, he seemed to forget that they were defended by their guards and armies—that irritated tyrants had reaching arms, and could strike those whom they never had seen. The House had no other means of exercising its power, but those strong expressions of the public feeling through its agency, which frequently had the effect of rescuing the victims of extreme and abused authority. He hoped his hon. friend would not attempt to deter the House from this important exercise of its duty. It was not using the language of abuse to those princes, but the language of solemn declaration in favour of liberty, and to prove to them incontrovertibly the general detestation in which the people of England held the crimes of tyranny. Upon the progress of the bill he would make only these observations. It had undergone very ample discussion—much more discussion than he had hoped for— and he should have concluded, that it was not likely that any thing more of weight could be added to it, but for that promise which fell from the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs the other day. He hoped that if the bill did pass, it would be presented to the public under more favourable circumstances of justification than those in which it stood at present. The argument was now con-
 117 118
 Lord Althorp  said, there were some parts of the speech of the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs, which he had heard with satisfaction. He alluded particularly to that part of it in which he had stated; that this was the last time he should apply to parliament for these powers. The right hon. gentleman had stated, some what inaccurately, an observation which he (lord A.), had made on a former occasion. He had not stated, that he should prefer a specific act of the legislature for each particular case, but that he should prefer a general act of parliament, making such machinations as excited the apprehensions of the government illegal, to a continuance of the Alien act.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  hoped there would be no objection to passing the Alien bill through a committee without opposition, and taking the further debate on the third reading.
 Mr. Hobhouse  did not wish that any body should have the opportunity of saying, that this bill had received amendment from his side of the House. He would give all the honour of it to the other side, and would allow no part of it to be shared among his friends. He therefore in-treated his hon. friend to withdraw his amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that early in the course of the present session he had given notice of his intention to call upon the House to grant his majesty a certain sum of money, which appeared to be within their means, to be applied to the purpose of making certain alterations
 148 l. 149 detour, 150 l. 151 l. 152 153 154 l. l.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  hoped that the declaration of his right hon. friend, which so materially altered the view of the bill, would induce the hon. gentleman not to press his motion.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that nothing but the lateness of the hour when the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs spoke on a former night, prevented him from replying at the instant to a speech fraught with the utmost injustice to the emigrants who had sought an asylum in England. He should, therefore, on the third reading, state his sentiments generally upon this most obnoxious and unconstitutional bill, and upon the speech with which it was attempted to be so improperly forced upon the attention of the House.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it would be certainly open to any hon. member to endeavour to throw out the bill on the third reading, and that allowing it to pass through the committee compromised no hon. member's opinion on the subject.
 Mr. Bankes  wished to impress on the House the necessity of proceeding cautiously and circumspectly on this occasion. The ill effects of haste and precipitancy were observable in the buildings now erecting in New Palace-yard, by which the beautiful entrance to Westminster-hall was absolutely disgraced. He believed there was not a man in that House who did not wish that those buildings had never been erected. With respect to Windsor Castle, he admitted the necessity of taking down some adjacent buildings, which were objectionable to the commonest and least scientific eye. If that fine edifice were intended to became, as he trusted it would, the permanent residence of the sovereigns of this country, he thought it ought to be repaired in a manner befitting the dignity of the Crown, and the grandeur of this great nation. In such a case, it would be proper to inquire, whether there was sufficient accommodation for the convenience of the sovereign in private, and whether the public apartments were possessed of that splendor which ought to distinguish a court. He believed the fact to be, that the private apartments were by no means commodious, and that those of a public character were not suited to the splendor of a court. A good deal of what had just fallen from his gallant friend struck him very forcibly. His gallant friend had accused him with having, on a former night, spoken slightingly of a certain architect; but, what his gallant friend had said on the present occasion was not much in that individual's favour. He (Mr. B.) was of opinion, that there was no modern architect whose works could be entirely commended. If, for instance, they looked to the new street, they would find some of the buildings remarkably beautiful, whilst others were not deserving of approbation. He conceived that, in forming those apart-
 157
 Sir C. Long  said, that those gentlemen who fancied that any intention of pulling down a part of Windsor Castle was entertained by his majesty's government, laboured under an entire mistake and misconception. He never heard that it was meant to pull down any part of that ancient edifice: he believed such a project never entered into the contemplation of any person. With respect to what had been said as to the responsibility which would be incurred by those whose services might be required in looking at the plans, a great mistake prevailed. In calling on them to examine the plans, it never was intended that they should be at all responsible for the expense that might be incurred. The responsibility, with reference to the expenditure of the public money, would attach solely to his majesty's ministers. His hon. friend, the member for Corfe Castle, appeared to think that Windsor Castle ought not only to be repaired, so as to afford the best possible private accommodation for his majesty, but that great regard should also be had to the splendor of the apartments, to render them fit for holding courts. He, however, never knew that his majesty entertained any intention to keep his court at Windsor. Occasions might arise, when it would be necessary for his Majesty to meet large assemblies there; but the idea of holding courts there never was promulgated. The hon. gentleman who last spoke condemned, in strong terms, any alteration of Windsor Castle, and more
 162 l. 163
 Mr. Maberly  wished to know, whether the right hon. gentleman was prepared to say that the vote of 150,000 l., l. l. l. l. l. 165
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his satisfaction at the ready disposition which appeared in the House to acquiesce in every thing which was necessary for the convenience and honour of the sovereign. Such a disposition was creditable in the highest degree to the House, and the exhibition of it could not fail to give much pleasure to every lover of constitutional monarchy. With reference to that which had just fallen from the hon. member opposite, nothing could be more preposterous, certainly, than for him (supposing he was doing such a thing) to be calling for sums on account of an expenditure which he believed to be indefinite. But, the view which he took of the thing was extremely different. He had stated on a former evening, that the sum to be laid out was 300,000 l. l. l. l., 166 l, l. l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the ground-rents to which the hon. member alluded, were not available to the Crown, but were paid into the consolidated fund. It could make no difference, therefore, whether they were sold to make the purchase at Windsor, or whether money were at once granted for that object.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought, it still was not quite clear, that, with reference to the interest of money, a sale might not be advantageous. With respect to the main question, however, most decidedly he wished to see an estimate; because, it might so happen, that an architect, on hearing the sum to which he was limited, would say, that, to do the work properly, that sum was not sufficient. If the chancellor of the Exchequer would pledge himself distinctly not to embark in the work unless he found the 300,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he could have no objection to answer the hon. member's question. Of course, it would be extremely unwise to embark in the present business, either as regarded purchase or building, if the architects represented that 300,000 l.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  understood all parties to concur in a desire to further, up to any reasonable amount, the honour and convenience of the Crown. The question was, as to the most expedient mode of managing the transaction. This might be done, certainly, by calling for plans and estimates of expense; but, the
 169
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the resolution was for granting 500,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  regretted that the papers had not been delivered at an earlier period. He was, however, far from wishing to entrap the House into giving an opinion which they had not had due time to consider. Although, therefore, he had been desirous to explain to the committee the views he entertained on this subject, he would consent to its postponement until Friday.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he was not aware of the nature of the proposition, and had been so far deceived by the explanation of the foreign secretary, that he had actually congratulated himself on being for the present rid of the discussion. He concurred with his hon. friend near him in considering this a most profligate mode of laying out the public money. He would be the last man to deny the people of England the means of worshipping according to the faith and discipline of the establishment. Wherever those means were now defective they ought to be fully provided; but not by extraordinary grants of the public money. It was his intention, if the chancellor of the Exchequer should persist in applying this "God-send" of
 173 l.
 Lord G. Cavendish  was of opinion, that the whole responsibility of this measure ought to rest with his majesty's ministers, and with them alone. There was, undoubtedly, a certain sum proposed to be granted; but, who could say, that double or quadruple that sum would not be demanded before the works were finished? He thought it, therefore, unfair to call on gentlemen who were not connected with his majesty's government to lend their assistance, and they to become responsible, in some degree, for the expenditure of the public money. For his own part, he would recommend those who might be
 158
 Lord J. Russell  quite agreed with the last speaker, that it was proper Windsor Castle should be rendered every way worthy of his majesty's residence. He believed it was at present in such a situation, as made it prudent to delay the necessary repairs as little as possible. Still, however, he should like to know what repairs or alterations were intended. They ought not blindly to vote this money, they knew not for what; with a chance, perhaps, that some part of this ancient edifice would shortly assume the external appearance of a Mahometan mosque. The right hon. knight observed, that the hon. gentleman on the floor was mistaken in supposing that his majesty meant to hold courts at Windsor; and he had also observed, that his hon. friend was in error, when he spoke of the pulling down of the south front. Now, the right hon. knight might be very well informed on this subject; but it was fit that the House also should have some regular information as to what was meant to be done. The vote, he thought, ought to be postponed until they knew the manner in which the money was to be disposed of The right hon. knight observed, that those gentlemen who would be selected to act on the commission, would not be answerable for the expenditure of the money, as the whole of that responsibility would rest on the Treasury. But, if there happened to be a call for more money, or if the building should be repaired in bad taste, there could be no doubt but that the commission would be blamed in a greater or less degree, although they were not lords of the Treasury.
 164 l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Ellice  observed, that the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer did those on his side of the House only justice, when he allowed that they had not expressed any objection to put Windsor Castle into a proper state for the residence of his majesty. He perfectly concurred in the expediency of that intention, and hoped that such plans and estimates would be formed respecting it, as would prove satisfactory to all parties. When such plans and estimates should be produced, he was prepared to vote a sum for carrying them into effect, whether the sum required was precisely 300,000 l.,
 Mr. Canning  said, that the terrace at Windsor was open to the public on Sundays, and they had the benefit of the band of music, the same as in time past. It was true, it had not been open to the public on the other days of the week; nor could it, with convenience to the party for whose use and benefit it had been laid out. There was not a foot of ground about the domain to serve for a promenade except the terrace; and certainly it could not be talked of as an innovation, seeing that, for ten years, it had been shut up altogether, and that from circumstances which no human prudence could control.
 Lord Nugent  protested strongly against the bill, which should, in all its stages, have his most decided opposition.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that the right hon. secretary had only done justice to the gentlemen with whom he sat, in stating, that they were actuated by a common wish to do every thing that was necessary for the dignity and convenience of the Crown. But, the security which the right hon. gentleman offered upon the present occasion was such as he (Mr. T.) feared the House could not accept; because a grant of 150,000 l., l. l., 170 l. l. l.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, that part of the work at Windsor Castle had already begun, and adverted to the change which had taken place at Windsor since the death of the late king. The park could not be shut up, for there was a public way went through it; but even the freedom of the park was not given as it ought to be, and the terrace was entirely shut up. He thought this was bad taste, and bad judgment in every way. Nothing-had tended more to the popularity of the late king than the freedom with which he used to walk upon the terrace, in the view of his subjects. He perfectly remembered the effect which the sight had produced upon him when a boy; and it had been one of the most pleasing, as well as of the most impressive description. He did not mean to say any thing offensive; but he thought that a hint should be given by ministers in the proper quarter upon tins subject.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  begged leave to second the motion of his hon. friend. He felt no small alarm at the speech of the right hon. gentleman coupling it, as he did, with the observations of the hon. member for Corfe Castle. In making the alterations at Windsor Castle, which were now threatened, he hoped care would be taken not to disfigure the south front. It was one of the most beautiful specimens of Gothic architecture in the kingdom. It was admired by all as a perfect model of that species of the art, and ought to be preserved with the utmost care. He was, however, afraid, that in the rage for alteration, some unhallowed hand would deform and disfigure that noble piece of
 160 l. l. l. l., 161
 Mr. Bennet  complained, that the estimates had only been in the hands of members eight hours, and that it was not reasonable to call on the House to come to a decision on a subject, respecting which they had so little information.
 Mr. Abercromby  complained of the want of a plan and of estimates, to satisfy that proper jealousy which the House ought to entertain with respect to any grant of the public money.
 Mr. Brogden  observed, that according: to the forms of the House, the amendment could not postpone the grant to any specific day. All that could be done was to move its postponement generally.
 Mr. Curwen  observed, it was very true they had the declaration of the right hon. gentleman that 300,000 l,
 Mr. J. Smith  did not like this mode of applying the public money in the present situation of the country. There were no petitions on the table in favour of building these churches. The public would subscribe towards building their own churches readily, if they could have any reasonable share of the control and appointment of the ministers. There were in many parts of the kingdom, the most scandalous struggles upon this subject. He did not profess to be accurately acquainted with the ecclesiastical law of presentations; but, if ministers could find a remedy for this part of the case, they need not come to parliament for grants of public money to build churches. The people would cheerfully tax themselves for that purpose. But how could the parliament apply money in this way, when they saw all around them thousands of unhappy wretches left to all the disorders and miseries attendant on an untaught condition. The first duty of every government was to provide instruction for its poor—a duty the execution of which would be more pleasing to the Almighty than the building of churches. To what better use could this money be applied than in furnishing the means of education to the poor of Ireland, a country torn with disorders for want of moral improvement and sound instruction? At any rate he would try this proposition against that of the right hon. gentleman in the committee.
 Mr. Hume  said, it had been recommended, long ago, by the report of a committee, that no money should be advanced for the purpose of erecting or repairing public buildings, unless a plan and estimate were previously laid before the House. Now, what plan or estimate had been produced on this occasion? They had nothing on which to act, except the statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer: and a more indefinite statement he certainly had never heard. He, therefore, was much surprised, that the hon. member for Corfe Castle should at once give his sanction to this measure. Ground, he understood, was to be purchased. He should like to be informed to what extent. He had been told the purchase of ground would require at least 150,000 l in limine, l l 159 l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know, what was the nature of the resolution which the right hon. gentleman intended to propose.
 Mr. Hume,  as he could not fix a specific day, was content to move the postponement of the grant in question generally. He hoped that in his division he should have the support of the hon. member for Corfe Castle, and of the member
 171
 Mr. Hume  was so far from anticipating the nature of the resolution, that he really had been led by the secretary for foreign affairs to suppose, that the plan of building new churches was laid aside for the present, because the money was to be applied to the establishment of the new West-India churches.
 Mr. Hume  complained, that no notice had been given of this vote which could have informed gentlemen of the nature of the proposition which it was the intention of the chancellor of the Exchequer to make. The invariable custom was, that an estimate should precede a grant; whereas, in this instance, there was no mention made of any sum of money, even in the notice of motion entered on the paper.
 Mr. Hume  was unwilling to create a debate at present, and particularly as the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs
 147
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had given notice of a resolution in the committee, and admitted that he had not given notice of any specific sum, but after his statement at the commencement of the session, and the notice of the present resolution, which was made a few nights ago, he put it to the House, whether the object of his resolution of to-night could be mistaken.
 Mr. James  said, that a petition would shortly be presented to the House against this appropriation of the public money. No doubt there would be many more of a similar nature, particularly from the Dissenters, who entertained strong objections to a measure, in none of the benefits of which they were to participate. He therefore hoped the chancellor of the Exchequer would consent to postpone it for a short time.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  thought, that nothing required more taste or greater delicacy, than the approach to a question like the present, in which the subject was, the residence of the sovereign, and in the discussion of which it might perhaps be necessary to throw cold water on the
 155 156
 Sir J. Newport  begged the House to notice a singular anomaly between the cases of Ireland and England. While the population of Ireland, composed five-sixths of Catholics, were taxed for the building as well as the repairing of churches for the one-sixth who were Protestant, the people of England, who were Protestants, were only called on to pay for the repairing of the churches, and the public at large were taxed for the building of them.
 Lord Milton  only asked to have the House placed where the chancellor of the Exchequer meant to place himself—that it might not be called upon to take any step accompanied with expense, until it was ascertained that the 300,000 l.
 Lord Milton  said, that, as it seemed to him, the chancellor of the Exchequer must support the proposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen; because, the right hon. gentleman pledged himself, that he would not embark in the work, if it should appear upon inquiry that the sum allotted was inadequate to complete it. Then why not make that inquiry at once, and defer the vote until an estimate was prepared? Certainly, ministers ought not to take any money, until they could say that they had seen plans and estimates which led them to believe that the grant would be sufficient.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied that he could not anticipate what would be the decision of the House upon the hon. gentleman's motion, of which he had given notice, for a continuance of this particular tax; but he had no difficulty is saying, that if it should be the wish of parliament to continue the present duty he hoped that some means might be devised for relaxing the restrictions which, arose out of the previous high duty, and which were considered necessary for the' preservation of the revenue. At all events, he should feel extremely anxious to try every possible means of relaxing the severity of the existing regulations; further than that he could not pledge himself.
 Mr. Calcraft  rose to express a considerable degree of surprise at the notice which the hon. member for Norfolk had given yesterday. He did not at the time feel it decorous to animadvert upon that notice; but he rejoiced exceedingly at the present, opportunity of delivering his opinion upon the subject. He was astonished at the, attempt now to call upon them to break through a solemn compact, by which it was stipulated, that the present duty should expire on the 5th of January next. The way in which this notice was conducted, looked as if the hon. member had. some bargain to make for the public, which he deemed more useful than that to which the House stood committed, for the abolition of this tax. He was perfectly; astonished at the cool and calm manner in which the Chancellor of the Exchequer seemed to meet the hon. member's views. What were the people to depend upon, if
 179 s
 Mr. Wodehouse  complained, that the hon. member had thrown out a hint, that, in proposing the continuance of this tax, he was acting in accordance with the views of his majesty's ministers. He denied the insinuation, and had distinctly intimated, when he gave his notice, that he was acting with hon. members at both sides of the House in his view of this subject. He respected as much as any man the faith of parliament, but he disliked the use of the word as a mere bugbear. The faith of parliament could only be formed upon a deliberate view of the whole question.
 Mr. Bright  conceived, that the oppressions under which the subject laboured from this tax two years ago, ought to have been entirely removed by this time. He wished to know what alterations the chancellor of the Exchequer had made in the excise regulations regarding salt since the duty of 10 s 180
 Sir J. Wrottesley  trusted, that government would remit the remaining salt duties. He never knew any measure which had given greater satisfaction to the country, than the remission of that part of them which had been already abandoned.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that though the existing duty of 2 s l l
 Mr. H. Gurney  spoke in favour of remitting the remaining salt duties.
 Lord Milton  felt considerable apprehension respecting the continuance of this tax, because he was convinced that no other tax could be equally injurious to the country. He referred to the great increase which had taken place in the consumption of salt, as a proof of the benefit the country had derived from the remission of the 10 s
 Sir M. W. Ridley  was of opinion, that the House, after reducing the duty of 10 s.,
 The Attorney-General  admitted, that this was indeed no light and trivial question, but one of the deepest and gravest importance; but he, nevertheless, could not concur in the opinions delivered by his hon. and learned friends, on the other side. He could not support a proposition which had for its object an alteration of the established practice on trials for felony; because it was his opinion, that that alteration would not be serviceable, but injurious. The observations of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Knares-borough, with respect to the effects of professional habit, had put him on his guard; and he doubted his own opinions, from a fear that they were tinctured with that prejudice. His hon. and learned friend had gone back to the early history of the law, and had shown the defective state in which it once stood; and yet the House would do well to observe, that, great as those defects were, the then state of the law had its supporters against any innovation, the same as it had at this day. It should be recollected that, until the reign of queen Anne, no party accused of felony could call witnesses to be examined for the defence on oath; and, strange as it might appear, the old practice was vindicated in opposition to the new one introduced under the statute, on the grounds of humanity and tenderness to the prisoner. It was said then, that the accused had a great advantage in not being able to examine sworn witnesses, because the witnesses, not being bound by oath, could give their evidence more at large than the witnesses for the prosecution, whose oaths restrained their testimony. But the better opinion prevailed, that as the witnesses for the prosecution deposed
 206 207 208 209
 Dr. Lushington  said, he was not surprised at the line of argument pursued by the hon. and learned attorney-general, who had commented at large on the excellence of the present system, and had contended, that justice was now administered in a manner so satisfactory, that no change could be an improvement. In this respect, the hon. and learned gentleman had pursued a prudent course, and he had with equal judgment abandoned all arguments founded upon general principles; because he well knew, that all these general principles were against him; when a prisoner was allowed counsel incases of misdemeanor, he had still greater need of his assistance in cases where his life was at hazard. The real and only question was this:—how shall the criminal law be so administered as best to secure justice to all the parties concerned? The question was not, how a criminal on his trial shall most easily escape; but how innocence can be most certain of acquittal, and how guilt can be most sure of conviction. The attorney-general, in the course of his speech, had depreciated the law as it stood in one respect for the sake of shewing that the change suggested would be productive of inconvenience. He had taught the House to believe that, in misdemeanors, much disadvantage arose from the allowance of counsel, and that so far from the interests of justice being promoted by it, its ends were impeded. But was not this statement contrary to all experience? Did not every body know and feel, that the opportunity of defence was of the utmost importance; and did it not always meet with the full approbation of the by-stand-ders? Was it not a constant complaint, on the part of those who witnessed the proceedings of our criminal courts, that the same opportunity was not given in felony? Did not impartial people, in such cases, always exclaim, "We have heard the speech on one side of the question; but who can tell what a counsel in his favour could have made out, if he had been permitted to speak?" Such, too, was not merely the feeling of the ignorant and vulgar, but of the well educated and en-
 210 211 212 213
 The Solicitor-General  said, it was strange that the question should be now started for the first time; for there was no proposal of this alteration in the report of the committee on Criminal laws, though that report had been got up under the inspection of the hon. and learned member for Knaresborough. If the change were so desirable, it was extremely remarkable that not a syllable was said upon the subject in any report ever made to that House. The legal authorities, too, were all decidedly against the employment of counsel by prisoners in cases of felony. Sir M. Hale, sir M. Foster, and sir W. Blackstone were all in opposition to the course; at least in none of them was there any complaint that counsel were excluded. With regard to counsel for the prosecution, they never made any attempt to excite the passions of the jury, or if they did, it was, of course, reprobated by the presiding judge; so that, in truth, counsel on the other side could reply to nothing. For his own part, he would rather do away with the employment of counsel altogether, even for the prosecution, than consent to the change proposed in the bill, which the hon. member wished to introduce. After the best consideration he had been able to give the subject, he felt convinced, that no good would result from the extension of the practice of allowing counsel to plead for defendants. On the contrary, he believed that much mischief would ensue. He was
 214
 Mr. Maberly  replied. He said, he had abstained from going at any length into the details of this subject, because he had expected that the committee would not have been refused. However, since the right hon. gentleman would not go the length he had expected, he would be contented to take his proposition respecting the introduction of a bill; but he did hope, that if legal difficulties should occur in its formation, the right hon. gentleman would allow that legal assistance and advice which he had in his power. He would bring in the bill; but, in a matter of such weight and importance, he did hope for the indulgence of the House, Under the circumstance of his accepting the right hon. gentleman's offer, he would not, of course, press his motion further.
 Mr. Kennedy  was about to move for leave, pursuant to the notice, to bring in a bill "to regulate the Relief granted to the Poor in Scotland," when
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed a hope that the hon. member would have the goodness to postpone it to some other day, as he had a measure which was of considerable importance to introduce; he meant the statement respecting the new duties on beer, which had been put off from day to day for some time.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, he had every disposition to give way to the right hon. gentleman, but he hoped that, as he expected no opposition to his measure, the House would give him leave to introduce it at present, and at a future stage he would go into an explanation of its merits: the hon. member then made his- motion, and it was put from the chair, when
 The Lord Advocate  said, he was placed in an awkward situation. The bill, he understood, went to alter the whole state
 227
 Mr. Kennedy  said, that if he had expected the hostility of the learned lord to the measure, he would have stated his views with respect to it; but the learned lord must have observed, that the course which he had pursued, was an amicable one, and with a disposition to accommodate the House. He could not, therefore, account for the tone of the learned lord and the tone of his remark.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that his remarks were not intended in an offensive sense to the hon. gentleman, but he could not but express his surprise and regret that such an important measure should be thus introduced.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that at that late hour he should feel it his duty to put his observations into as short a compass as possible; but still he feared that he should have to trespass on the attention of the committee longer than he could wish at such an hour. The subject of the beer duties was one which had been postponed for some time, and it was important to the country that the knowledge of the intentions of government with respect to them should not be longer delayed. The propositions which he should that night submit would relate; first to the duty on beer; next to the individuals who manufactured it; and thirdly, to those by whom it was sold. When, in an early part of this session, an hon. member (Mr. Maberly) had proposed, that the duties on beer should be transferred to the malt, he had felt an objection to the measure, because he thought at the time, and his opinion had not yet been altered upon the point, that such a plan would be only transferring the burthen from one class of persona to another, which he could not think advisable. But, at the same time, he was not insensible to the objections to the
 228 s s.; s s s s s s s 229 s s s., s s s s s 230 231 l s l l l s l l s.; 232 l l., l l l l., l., l s., l s l l l., l l., l l., l l., l l s, l l l l 233
 Mr. Bernal  wished to be informed, whether the resolutions, when printed, were to be discussed before or after the recess. They appear very complicated, and required serious consideration.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought the best course would be, that the resolutions should be reported, that he should have liberty to bring in the bill, and, after the bill should be printed, the discussion might be taken on the whole question.
 Mr. Maberly  rose, to make his promised motion. The hon. gentleman said, that he would briefly state how the law in respect of the land-tax stood at present. In the 4th of William 3rd an act passed, by which the land was charged with 4 s 221 l l s l s l s l l l l l l l., 222 l l l l l l l l 223 l 224
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that when the hon. member had before brought forward his opinions on this subject, not in the shape of a motion for a committee, but in the form of substantive resolutions, he had deemed it necessary to oppose those resolutions, as they appeared to him to be founded in no sound reason. On reconsidering the subject, he saw no cause to alter his opinion; and, he thought, if he consented to the committee, it would only end in disappointment; as it appeared to him impossible that the sanguine views of the hon. member, to which he seemed so closely attached, though he had met with no encouragement from the House, would be, in any degree, realized. As to the original measure for the redemption of the land-tax, as proposed by Mr. Pitt, if it had been brought forward in any other shape, or with any other view than the one with which it was proposed at the time, he should have felt it to be very objectionable, to make perpetual a tax which had never been considered as other than transitory. Neither was there any other advantage in the measure than the specific operation at the time in raising the funds which were as low as 47, and thus enabling the minister to borrow money on better terms. The measure, in point of fact, though called a redemption of the land-tax, was no such thing. The land-tax was not swept away; for though the tax might not be paid to the state, it was paid to an individual. For instance, if a man who was tenant for life of an estate, purchased the land-tax from the public, though during his life the tax might be said to be extinguished; yet, after his death it remained a burthen upon the state, payable by the remainderman to the purchaser's representatives. He did not know what inducement the hon. member proposed to hold out to accelerate the progress of the redemption, but he was so far not indisposed to meet his views, as not to be prepared absolutely
 225
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the duty would be imposed on the barrels of beer. He assumed that a certain quantity of malt was employed in a given number of barrels.
 Mr. Maberly  protested against this most unfair and unprincipled measure. The effect of the proposition was in fact to lay an additional duty on malt, upon this most vicious principle, that the poor man was compelled to pay it, while the rich man was left untouched. The measure afforded no relief whatever. It merely removed the duties from one description of beverage to another. The only part of the measure of which he approved was the reduction of the duties affecting licensed victuallers.
 Alderman Wood  wished to know how the right hon. gentleman proposed, with such an extensive scale of duties, to protect the consumer from paying the higher instead of the lower duty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not profess to attempt that. It could not, indeed, be done without such a number of inconvenient regulations, as would prevent persons from following the trade. The consumer must, under his proposed regulation, take his chance, as he did at present, for being supplied with a proper quality of beer. It would be competent for the brewer to supply him with a great many qualities, varying
 235
 Mr. Gordon  wished to know what would be the difficulty in levying the duty on the malt instead of on the beer, as he understood to be the case in Ireland? He supposed it was not to be conceived, that the brewers in London brewed from any other materials than malt and hops; and yet, from the right hon. gentleman's laying the duty on beer, it would seem as if he intended to catch those persons who brewed from some other article.
 Mr. Calvert  said, if the hon. gentleman bad any doubt as to the articles of which London porter was composed, he would refer him to the evidence of Mr. Carr, given before a committee of that House, which would, he thought, afford him complete satisfaction.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not understand the hon. member to have intended to make a charge against any body, and certainly he himself had no such intention; but he did know officially, that such frauds had been practised, and that convictions by juries had followed. If the course of proceeding recommended by the hon. member for Abingdon were agreed to, he feared that the facilities for such frauds would be greatly increased; and one of his reasons, certainly, for adopting this duty was to render that mode of fraud more difficult. Without referring to any individual cases, it was clear that, in every exciseable article, frauds were committed, and, therefore, in framing the regulations, it was desirable to endeavour to prevent them.
 Mr. Calvert  said, he did not imagine that his hon. friend had intended to make any charge; but he had spoken so enigmatically, that it might give rise to misconstructions.
 Mr. F. Palmer  thought, that although the measure was not in every respect what he could have wished, yet it was still a very great improvement on the existing system. The hon. member for Aberdeen was not accurate in stating that the poor man was to pay 24 s 234
 Mr. Wodehouse  wished to know if the saccharometer was to be used in estimating the duty?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the saccharometer was to be used only as a means for detecting frauds; but the estimation of the duty would be, by compelling the brewer, in addition to the notice which he was at present obliged by law to give, to add at what rate he intended to brew the beer. When the measure came in the form of a bill, it would be seen, that a great many restrictions which at present existed would be removed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the subject had not escaped his attention; but it was by no means an easy matter to deal with the licences in Ireland, the lawand regulations respecting them being so extremely unintelligible. But he hoped that, if not in the present session, he should soon be able to make some improvement in the system. At present they varied according to the towns; and he understood that in towns which sent members to parliament, they paid higher duties [a laugh]. He could not tell why, but so it was; and it was a proof of the existence of very absurd regulations.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought that he had sufficiently guarded against any supposed imputation, by stating that the regulations were framed on general principles.
 Mr. Buxton  said, as his hon. friend had risen to defend the brewers from an indirect charge, he must now rise to repel a direct one. It was not correct to state, that the greater part of the public-houses were in the hands of the brewers. The firm he was connected with supplied 700 houses, of which only 57 were in their own hands.
 Mr. Buxton  wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman proposed to lay the duty on the quantity of malt employed, or on the barrels of beer?
 Mr. Monck  said, he should support the motion for a committee, not for the purpose of amending the acts for the redemption of the land-tax, but to put an end to them altogether. The plan was worse than illusory; it was mischievous. As sir W. Pulteney had said, it went to plant a perpetual irredeemable annuity, at five per cent, on the country. If they supposed the whole two millions of the land-tax had been redeemed, 66 millions would have been extinguished, and the effect would have been, that a redeemable annuity of two millions would have been extinguished, and a perpetual irredeem-able annuity of the same amount created. If, in the progress of time, the 3 per cents were reduced to 2 per cents, all the difference between the full and the reduced annuity on the amount of the tax redeemed would be lost to the public. It would be, therefore, most impolitic to sell the land-tax to buy up the unfunded debt; because the interest on this debt might be reduced, but the land-tax when sold would be irredeemable and irreducible. The whole system was at once illusory and mischievous, being the mere nominal transfer of a debtor and creditor account, which left the parties it affected to relieve in the same condition they were in before.
 Mr. Monck  thought the measure would operate a great improvement in the state of the beer trade. In the neighbourhood where he resided, it would, he was convinced, be received with very great satisfaction.
 Mr. North  said, that he always felt the administration of criminal justice in this country to be one of its noblest and proudest boasts; and if there was any particular department in that code which pre-eminently attracted admiration, it was the department to which the hon. and learned gentleman who introduced the subject had referred. Had he to discuss that subject with any enlightened foreigner, he should have felt it necessary to advert to topics which were unnecessary in addressing himself to the hon. and learned gentleman and to that House. He should have dwelt upon that guarded caution to obtain an impartial and indifferent tribunal; he should have proved to him the anxious care which characterised the law, to exclude, by the severest scrutiny, the possible operation, of any undue or pre-con-
 190 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 198
 Mr. Hume  thought the proposed plan would but increase trouble and inconvenience, without being productive of any real good. Why not put the duty on the malt, and let the brewer make the beer as strong as he pleased, as was the case in Ireland?
 Mr. Hume  thought his hon. friend did not do justice to the plan for the redemption of the land-tax; for if there was an irredeemable annuity of 5 l l., l l 226 l *
 Mr. Hume  said, that he did not see how, if the duty were on malt, this species of fraud could be more easily practised. He was far from believing it was done by any respectable brewers; but if it were practised, good beer could not be brewed; and then, according to the right hon. gentleman's own principles, the brewer would get no customers;
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that if one case could be quoted of an innocent man having been condemned, wanting a counsel,
 219 220
 Mr. Denman  regretted, that he had not been in the House at an earlier period of the debate, and that he had consequently been prevented from hearing the speeches which had been delivered in the course of it. And more particularly was he sorry, that he had not heard the speech of that learned gentleman who had brought so much reputation with him into the House, a reputation the growth of which during that learned gentleman's practice at the Irish bar, he had watched with great pleasure, and upon no occasion had he been more gratified at its increase, than when, about a year ago, he had gained so much honour by his successful exertions in behalf of the liberty of the subject upon a state prosecution. It was somewhat singular that the learned gentleman should have been followed in his argument by his two learned friends (the Attorney and Solicitor General), both of whom were probably indebted for the honours they now enjoyed to the ability they had displayed in defending persons who were the objects of prosecution for high treason. He had thought, that his learned friends would, in their speeches, have furnished convincing arguments in favour of the proposed measure; but he could not regret that they had not done so, since their own examples gave a much more powerful proof of the efficacy and the necessity of the aid of counsel being extended to prisoners, than even their arguments could have afforded. It seemed, however, that, as cases of treason were excepted from the general practice, this was held to be a reason why counsel should not be allowed in other criminal cases. He thought that, besides the weakness of the reasoning, such a system was far from respectful to the judges by whom those other cases were to be tried. It had been said by one of his learned friends, that persons charged with felony should not be allowed to defend themselves by counsel, because this would have the effect of getting rid of that tranquillity and composure with which such
 215 216 217 218
 Mr. Spring Rice  wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman meant to propose any thing respecting Excise licences in Ireland.
 Mr. Huskisson  disclaimed the idea of making a charge against the brewers, but he would put it to any gentleman, whether the number of free public-houses in the country was not extremely small.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, the hon. member appeared to forget, that the greater part
 236
 Mr. George Lamb  rose to call the attention of the House to the motion of which he had given notice. The bill which he now meant to move for leave to introduce, although not a novelty in that House, yet did not entirely resemble that which had been introduced at different times by the hon. member for Galway. However, it was not on account of any difference of opinion with his hon. friend, that he now stood in his shoes. On the contrary, it was entirely with his concurrence; indeed at his particular request, that he now came forward with the present measure. His hon. friend had so dexterous a method of getting bills through the House, that he had, perhaps, done wrong in taking this bill out of his hands; but, as he had undertaken the office of piloting it through the House, he would shortly explain the points in which it differed from the bill formerly introduced by his hon. friend The principal points of difference were these. His hon. friend confined the allowance of counsel to such prisoners as were indicted for capital crimes: he extended it to all prisoners whatsoever. His hon. friend had in his printed bill inserted a clause, authorising the judge to assign counsel to the prisoner as in cases of treason. He (Mr. L.) made no assignment of counsel
 182 183 184 * 185 186 * * 187 188 189
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he had listened with great pleasure to the hon. and learned gentleman who had just stood in that House the severe test of his previous reputation. If he wished for a general vindication of the administration of criminal justice in this country, he would desire no more able and eloquent vindicator than the hon. and learned gentleman. But that was not the question which had been brought under the consideration of the House by his hon. and learned friend, the member for Dungarvon. No man could more highly praise the general administration of the criminal law than his hon. and learned friend had done. He wished the hon. and learned gentleman had favoured them by stating a little more forcibly the argument with the imaginury foreigner with whom he had held his imaginary dialogue on the English laws. The hon. and learned gentleman's dialogue was not like those masterly dialogues of old, in which each of the speakers maintained his opinions with all the force of which they weresusccptible. It was rather like those dialogues between A. and B. in which B. was evidently introduced for the purpose of giving an easy and inglorious victory to it. If he (sir J. M.) were to put into the mouth of an intelligent foreigner any objections, not to the administration of our criminal laws generally, for in praise of that no one would join more cordially than himself but to this particular branch of that administration, he would make him appeal to the natural principles of equity, he would make him appeal to the codes of all civilized nations, codes comprising the moral feelings and judgment of the human race. He boldly asked the hon. and learned gentleman to point out a single nation, ancient or modern, in which a prisoner brought to trial was refused the privilege of defending himself, either in person or by counsel, as he might seem to think fit? This pri-
 199 200 * * 201 * 202 203 204 205
 Lord Stanley  said, that, as chairman of the committee, he should be the last person to object to the production of the minutes of evidence taken before it. He could not help thinking, however, that if the hon. member had done them the favour to attend the committee, he would have seen ample reason for not bringing forward his present motion. He objected to the motion on no other ground, than that it would be extremely inconvenient, if the time of the House were to be taken up in considering matters which had passed before a committee, unless it could be shewn that some substantial public benefit was likely to result from it.
 Mr. B. Wilbraham  admitted, that it would be proper to discourage the practice of improperly annexing signatures to petitions. At the same time, it was hardly possible to prevent it altogether in large and populous districts, and petitions were not generally, on that account, to be considered as at variance with the sentiments of the great majority of those whose signatures were annexed to them.
 Mr. Grenfell  thought it would have been more proper in the hon. mover, if he had abstained from characterising the St. Catherine's Dock bill as a job, until that measure was brought regularly under discussion. The hon. member seemed to take a most extraordinary distinction between northern and southern petitioners, as if every petition that came from the north must be a job, while every southern petition was necessarily fair and orthodox;
 Mr. H. Sumner  thought the subject deserved the serious attention of the House. He hoped that the persons who were charged with these practices would be brought to the bar, and if proved to be guilty, committed to Newgate.
 Mr. W. Peel  thought it extremely questionable whether the evidence taken before the committee ought to be laid before the House. If it were, he was satisfied the consequence would be, that not one but four or five individuals would be sent to Newgate. The committee had adjourned their proceedings in mercy to those individuals, and hot with any view of saving themselves trouble.
 Mr. Philips  thought it quite unworthy of the House, that their time should be occupied in examining evidence, to ascertain whether an Irish weaver had annexed a number of signatures to a petition, the
 283
 Mr. B. Cooper  said, he had examined with the greatest attention, all the arguments which had been advanced in favour of the repeal of these laws, and his opinion of the impolicy of such a course still remained unaltered. The only arguments he had heard in support of the proposition, were these; first, that as the laws were not now generally enforced, there was no necessity for their continuance: secondly, that other countries were not subject to these laws as we were; and thirdly, that the present rate of interest, of from 2½ to 5 per cent was sufficient to satisfy any money lender. Now, with respect to the first of these arguments, he must be permitted to say, that the mere infraction of a law was no argument for its abandonment: and, besides, it was the duty of the government of the country to see that the laws were not violated. With respect to the second argument, namely, that other countries did very well without these laws, he was inclined to think that this would not be found to be the case; for they did, to a certain extent, exist in all countries, and had done so from the earliest times. It was true that they were abandoned in France during the French revolution, but they were again revived under the Code Napoleon. Holland had been cited, on a former occasion, as an example; in which country it was stated, that the rate of interest varied from two and a half to thirteen per cent. He could only say, if that were the case, he was at a loss to know who would like to live in such a country with such a state of things? It had been contended, that these laws were introduced under the Jewish dispensation, at a time when very erroneous notions prevailed on this subject; but it was well known that they were in practice amongst the Greeks and Romans. A strong impression existed amongst the Romans as to the necessity of some laws on this subject. Different opinions had at all times existed in this country on political matters. Conflicting notions had been
 284
 Mr. Robertson  thought, if this measure were carried into effect, it would have a fatal influence on the prosperity of the country; but he principally wished to call the attention of the House to the superficial views in which it had originated. He had heard adduced, in support of the proposition, the production of Jeremy Bentham, in reply to Adam Smith; and he had heard, with astonishment, that work described as one of the ablest works that had proceeded from the head of man. He wished to direct the attention of the House to the evidence adduced before the committee, with a view to shew the kind of authority upon which the measure had been recommended. The first witness to whom he wished to refer was the late Mr. Ricardo. He was asked "Has your attention been called to the laws which restrain the rate of interest?" He answered "Yes." "Have you that experience, to say, or have you perceived whether those laws are beneficial or otherwise?—I think otherwise. In what respect do you think otherwise?—It appears to me from the experience I have had on the stock exchange." In fact all the experience which Mr. Ricardo had at that time was got on the stock exchange for he was not at that time a member of that House. But he went on; "It appears to me that, upon all occasions, those laws are evaded, and they are disadvantageous to those only who conscientiously adhere to them." But, he would ask, did government borrow to make a profit? Certainly not. Did the landed proprietors borrow with a view to profit? Certainly not. The whole of the error, as it appeared to him, consisted in this; namely, in supposing that money should be placed precisely on the same footing as all other commodities. This was a very great error. Money could not be bought and sold. You may lend
 288 289 290
 Mr. Philips  remarked upon the prepos-
 300 maximum minimum l
 Mr. Attwood  said, that he agreed with the hon. member for Hull (Mr. Sykes), who had observed, that this question ought to be decided on the ground of its justice rather than of its policy; a view of the subject, which had rather strangely been lost sight of in the course of the debate. But, first, as regarded the question of policy, and the influence of the present law on particular interests, he dis-
 301 302 303 304 305 306 307 308 309 l l l l 310 l l 311 312
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  said, that the proposed measure was fraught with difficulties, and thus much had even been admitted by the honourable members who were most favourable to it. Even such of them as had concluded that it ought to be adopted, had not denied these difficulties. For his own part, he felt convinced they were so great and so numerous, that they could not be got over. It was necessary, in contemplating this bill, to look at the state of the national debt, and the manner in which it had been contracted—at the existing mortgages on land—at family entails, and other settlements of property. Without taking such a view of the subject, it would be impossible to treat it wisely and justly; and it would be shortsighted in the extreme, to discuss it upon mere abstract grounds. He knew that in these times, when many gentlemen thought, and thought conscientiously, that they had made certain discoveries which had never before been dreamed of, it was an arduous undertaking to advocate the provisions of any ancient law. When those discoveries were backed, too, as in the present instance they were, by the influence of his majesty's ministers, the task became still more arduous. The arguments he had to offer in support of the law as it stood, would, perhaps, have little weight. Still he felt it necessary to express his conviction, that at the present moment it would be inexpedient to alter the existing regulations. No man could enjoy the land of which he was the owner without obeying such requisitions as the state chose to impose upon him. He was compelled to contribute to the support of the poor, to the maintenance of highways, and was called upon for other contributions. Why, then, had not the state a right to say to the owner of money, "you shall receive no more than a certain rate of interest, to be fixed by the authority of the legislature?" As to the question of policy which had been urged by an hon. member, he had to observe, that it had been held in all states to be better that the rate of interest should be low than high, and that it should be fixed. He had no doubt that, but for the usury laws, the
 314
 Mr. Calcraft  felt called upon to deny the latter assertion. He admitted, that, in a theoretical point of view, he was not prepared to combat the bill of the learned Serjeant; but, if it were said, that the very material objection which had been brought against it on behalf of the owners of landed property had been refuted, he would maintain the contrary. The most able speech of the hon. member for Callington (Mr. Attwood), to the talent and ingenuity of which he was not insensible, applied to the commercial interests of the country. If the existing laws did affect
 315
 Mr. Calcraft  observed, that the hon. and learned gentleman was very indulgent. The hon. and learned gentleman was willing to allow nine months to elapse, before he overset all the money transactions in the country, and placed them on another footing. Surely those who were the most wedded to this change in the law, would nevertheless wish for an extension of the proposed period. He appealed to the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer, who had allowed two years and a half before the commencement of the experiment on the silk trade, whether it was fitting that a question of the greatest importance, affecting all the money transactions of the country, should be hurried on at an earlier period than a question affecting only one branch of our trade? He trusted the House would not press the measure on the country before the people were aware of it. He said this from a firm persuasion, that the only reason it had not met with a stronger opposition was, that it was not sufficiently known. Fortunately, if the bill should pass that House, it would stand a good chance of being lost somewhere else.
 Mr. Robertson  re-urged his objections to the principle of the bill.
 Mr. Wkitmore  contended, that the bill would have no effect at all at the present moment.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  insisted that the landed interest of the country would be ruined by the bill.
 Mr. Calcraft  maintained, that the effect of the repeal would be, to excite competition between persons who borrowed money on mortgage and the government itself.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  observed, that no bill had ever been more delayed than the one then before the committee. As for the operation of the measure, it would but affect the Usury Jaws, not the acts respecting pawnbrokers.
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  said, that there was but one blank in the bill, and that related to the period at which its operation was to commence. That blank he proposed to fill up with the words,"1st of January, 1825."
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  explained, and denied that any of the arguments which had been used in support of the bill had been refuted by the observations of those who were opposed to it.
 Mr. Sykes  said:—I rise, Sir, to take this opportunity of expressing my opinion on a subject confessedly of the greatest importance, and on which the most surprising misconception still prevails; as well as to answer some of the extraordinary sentiments of the hon. member for Grampound (Mr. Robertson). I cannot, indeed, pretend to follow that hon. member through the wide field of argument which he has taken, both on this and on a former night, to defend the usury laws; he has sought for examples and doctrines both in the polished and barbarous states of antiquity. The laws of Greece and Home have been ransacked for his purpose; and we are gravely told, that we ought to limit the rate of interest of
 294 295 296 297 298
 Mr. Davenport  seconded the amendment, and maintained, that the repeal of these laws had been considered injurious in all ages. He thought the report which had been drawn up on this subject was a mere skeleton, compared with the magnitude of the question. The question lay in a small compass, and it might be brought before the House in a very few words. It was simply this—"Are we, or are we not, to give up the money-market to adventurers and speculators?" The situation of one class of men—the British merchants, who were the pride and stay of this country, and the admiration of Europe—would be altogether altered by this measure: for instead of embarking their capital in merchandize, they would turn to the more profitable pursuit of money speculations. In his opinion, the repeal of these laws would be productive of the greatest discord amongst families, and would break asunder the bonds of social intercourse. He therefore implored his majesty's ministers not to give their assent to a measure which was fraught with such injurious consequences.
 Mr. Davenport  was of opinion, that the bill would prove the ruin of the landed interest, and hoped, as it was patronized by ministers, that, they would repeal the stamp duties on mortgages, which, as soon as the bill was passed into a law, would be shuffled about, like cards, from one hand to another.
 Mr. Littleton  said, he would give the House another opportunity of expressing its opinion on this impolitic bill. He would move as an amendment, that the words "Tuesday next" be struck out of the motion, and that the words "this day six months" be inserted in their stead.
 Mr. H. Sumner  confessed that his opinion had been the other way; but he bowed willingly to the authority of the chair.
 Mr. H. Sumner  begged to put a question to the Speaker. He wished to know whether it was consistent with the rules of the House for the chairman of a committee of the whole House, after he had received instructions to report progress and ask leave to sit again, to remain in the chair and put the committee to the necessity of expressing its opinion a second time, as to the propriety of the House resuming before he left the chair.
 Mr. Curwen  said, he was not disposed to interfere with the existing laws. No desire had been expressed on the part of the public for their repeal, and where it was possible that such important interests would be hazarded, he preferred the safer course of abiding by experience; he was also afraid that the proposed alteration would give rise to an immense deal of money-jobbing.
 Mr. Leslie Foster  said, it was one question as to the policy of having originally adopted a system of Usury laws, and quite another, now that they had been so long in use, whether they should be repealed. For nearly three centuries, the country had gone on under the present system: it has been raised to the most exalted state of prosperity; a greater mass of capital had been accumulated than ever before was possessed by any other state, and a far greater quantity of relations had arisen in the nature of debtor and creditor, than were to be met with in any other country. The question which chiefly pressed on him
 285 286 287
 Mr. L. Foster  said, it now seemed to be agreed upon all hands, that the landholder would have more to pay for money, under the operation of the present bill, than heretofore. That was an evil for which it did not appear that any remedy could be devised.
 Mr. Leslie Foster  said, that before they were called upon to pass a measure which would subject the landed interest to great injury, they ought to be told on the other hand, how it was proposed to get that interest out of the difficulty.
 Mr. Lockhart  implored the House to consider that, by repealing all the laws relating to the interest of money, they were taking away from the poor the protection which the law afforded them against the extortion of pawnbrokers. At present, that class of money-lenders were restricted from taking above a certain rate of interest: now, if all the usury laws were repealed, they might extort what interest they pleased. Did the learned serjeant contemplate this result from his measure?
 317
 Mr. Lockhart  declared, that he had no intention of attacking the money-holders; for, independent of the respect which he personally entertained for many of them,
 299
 Mr. John Martin  suggested, that the objections of the hon. alderman to the penalties might be better urged in a committee than in the shape he proposed. He therefore thought the hon. alderman was pledged to vote for the committee, in which, too, the objections of other hon. members might be obviated.
 Mr. John Smith  said, that he had never heard the arguments on the side of the repeal of the usury laws so well put as they had just been by his hon. friend the member for Callington. He must, however, allow, that he had reason to believe that the proposed repeal of those laws was not viewed with a favourable eye by a great many persons concerned in money transactions. He nevertheless was firmly convinced, that the existing laws were injurious to the landed interest. They might as well endeavour to prevent water from rising to its level, as money from obtaining its real value. The law being unjust was necessarily evaded. He would not travel with the hon. member for Gram-pound into central India; but this he would say, that, practically speaking, there were no usury laws in the commercial state of Europe. In Holland there was nothing like the slavery which the hon. member dreaded of the debtor under the creditor. There was no country in which there was so much industry, frugality, and good conduct in the bulk of the population and so little misery, vice, and poverty; and yet there were no usury laws. He was afraid, however, that, by going further, he might weaken the effect of the excellent speech of his hon. friend the member
 313
 Mr. Hume  said, he would refer the hon. and learned gentleman to what had taken place during war time for an answer to his question. At that time the landed gentlemen borrowed money at 10 per cent, which, but for the existing laws, they could have borrowed at 8 per cent. Supposing a war to break out, government would be obliged to borrow at an increased interest as they had done before, and the landed interest must be satisfied to share the same fate. It was not fair that the monied proprietor should have a limit fixed to his per centage, and that the landed proprietor should let his land at as high a price as he could, without any limit being assigned. The fair course of proceeding was, to remove restrictions from all, and to let money be as free as any other article.
 Mr. T. Wilson  declared, that nothing which had been advanced in the course of the discussion on the present bill had, in the slightest degree, altered the opinions which he had formerly expressed against the repeal of the law. He should, therefore, certainly vote for the amendment.
 The Speaker  replied, that the instruction of a committee to its chairman to report progress and ask leave to sit again, was merely a declaration of its resolution to proceed no further at that time with the business which it then had under discussion. The chairman was therefore bound to remain in the chair until the question was put and carried "That I do now leave the chair." The first question, namely, "that the chairman do report progress and ask leave to sit again," might be put in order to bring an unpleasant discussion to a close; and in the interval between the carrying of that question and the putting the second question, "that I do now leave the chair," he might he instructed to
 319
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, he did not believe the House would refuse to concur with him in opinion, that the hon. member who had just sat down, had expressed most extraordinary doctrines, not only in respect to the usury laws, but to the whole science of political economy. He had been, at first, at a loss to account for the sentiments of the hon. member, and for the confidence with which he informed the House, that Mr. Ricardo knew nothing of political economy, and that Mr. Bentham was equally ignorant of the subject of the interest of money: but the difficulty he felt had been completely removed, so soon as the hon. member made it known to the House that he had studied the principles of political economy in the preambles of statutes of Henry the eighth and Elizabeth. When the hon. member referred to such authorities, it was no longer a matter of astonishment to him that he disputed the opinions of Mr. Ricardo and Mr. Bentham, and opposed the bill now before the House. The hon. member had not only told us, where to look for principles to govern our judgment, but had also favoured us with his advice, as to the best way of obtaining a knowledge of the facts that bore upon the question. He had passed over all the civilized and industrious countries that were similar to our own, and desired us to look at once to central India. He had said, there were no usury laws there, and that extortions and frauds were the consequence. But the hon. member had wholly overlooked the dissimilarity between central India and Great Britain in respect to civilization, opulence, and morals; and he had himself told us that central India was the worst-governed country in the world, whilst he paid the highest encomiums upon the government of this country. 291 292 293
 Sir J. Wrottesley  deprecated the repeal of the existing laws, on the ground that such a measure would henceforth prevent the setting aside of many injurious contracts.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  observed, that if the
 318
 Mr. Hobhouse  presented a petition from certain inhabitants of Westminster complaining of the power of committal for libel before trial, which had been exercised by a magistrate in the case of Mr. Gathorne Butt. The hon. member said, that the power of committing before trial in cases of libel was first given to magistrates by a bill which was introduced in 1808, as an amendment to the revenue laws. By that bill, authority was given to magistrates to commit individuals to prison who were accused of libel by the attorney-general, unless they could obtain bail. That bill passed through the House in four days without observation; doubtless because nobody supposed that a measure which professed to relate only to the amendment of the revenue laws could contain such an important provision respecting cases of libel. The bill went up to the Lords. It happened there that a very acute man, and one who had the good of his fellow-subjects sincerely at heart—he meant the late lord Stanhope—looked into the bill, and finding in it the clause conferring the powers to which he had adverted he drew the attention of the House of Peers to the subject. The bill was defen-
 320 321
 Mr. Wynn  certainly remembered the time when the greatest part of Westminster Abbey was open to the public. At the time to which he alluded a very small number of monuments were shut up, and even those were allowed to be seen for 6 d s
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he had not anticipated that it would have been necessary for him to have prefaced his motion with any introductory observations, were it not for some remarks that had followed his original proposition, as to the grant for building churches from some hon. members on the opposite side. He confessed he felt not a little surprised at the opposition that was manifested to the proposition, and much more so at the reasons which were given for hostility to the proposed application. That persons who dissented from the doctrine and faith of the church of England—that persons who were indifferent to the religion of the state at all—that such persons should entertain a disinclination to such an application of the public funds was not surprising; but he must own, that in the legislature of a country which possessed a church establishment, and which establishment it was bound to maintain, he did feel considerable astonishment in observing an opposition to a plan, having for its object to afford facilities to the professors of the established religion to attend divine service. To give to the humbler classes of the community such a facility, was, in his opinion, not only unobjectionable, but prima facie, a great good. But, of all the objections that it was possible to anticipate, he did confess that he was not prepared for the objection, that to accede to a grant for facilitating the religious intercourse of the professors of the church of England was something almost amounting to blasphemy. He knew that, in legal minds, there
 329 330 l
 Mr. Hobhouse . —To find some mode of administering to it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer . —Well! he knew of no mode except applying to the public purse. But, the fitness of meeting the necessity being granted, he came to prove the fact; and it would be found, upon inspecting the papers before the House, that in 179 places, containing 3,548,000 inhabitants, there was only church accommodation for 500,000 persons, which was for about one individual in seven, upon the bulk of the population. He admitted, that there must be deductions from this estimate of 3,548,000 souls; some would be sick, or old, or infants, and consequently persons not attending church; but still the amount of accommodation fell far below what was required. And, what was it that left it so far below? Why the increase in population of some parishes, to a degree which, as regarded providing places of worship, entirely overpowered all their means. It was utterly impossible—and the House would find it so—to leave matters in such a situation. Here were people most anxious to go to church, and who, so far as the means were within their reach, had done so, and still did so, with infinite benefit and consolation; and it was impossible to deny them the extended use of that privilege which they felt to be such a blessing. But, honourable gentlemen said—"500,000 l 331 l 332 l l
 Mr. Hobhouse  observed, that it was quite unnecessary, on the part of the right hon. gentleman, to state the importance of the subject to which he had been directing their attention. Of that importance the House of Commons must be fully aware. If the fact really was, that any deficiency existed in the country in the means of obtaining accommodation for religious worship, he was sure that it was impossible that any hon. gentleman could be found, who would not assist his majesty's government to the utmost of his power in devising a method of supplying that deficiency. He must also remark, and he was sure the right hon. gentleman would acknowledge the truth of his observation, that in the line which he was about to pursue on this subject, he was treading on very delicate ground. He was not, as had been imputed to him on a former occasion, representing the sentiments of any dissenting class, or of any persons hostile to the church establishment: he was representing the interests, the wishes, and the feelings of his constituents, the people of Westminster; and
 333 l 334 l l 335 336 337 338 l 339 l 340 l 341 l
 Mr. Secretary Peel  felt himself bound to acknowledge, that nothing could be more fair than the principle on which the hon. member for Westminster rested his proposition, and nothing more liberal and more becoming the dignity of the subject than the mode in which the hon. gentle-
 342 343 344 l 345 l l 346 l
 Dr. Lushington , in explanation, begged most distinctly to disclaim every species of hostility to the dissenters, and to say, that it would be most painful to him if any misconception entertained by the hon. member for Montrose, should go forth to the public; but there had not been one word in his speech which, being justly interpreted or rightly understood, would bear any such construction as the hon. gentleman had put upon it. The paper he had read from was the third report of the Home Missionary Society, which he did not quote in any ill feeling towards the dissenters, but to show the
 358
 Mr. George Bankes  said, it had been stated by his hon. friend, the member for Westminster, that since the new church at Marylebone had been built, the price of pews in the old church had considerably risen. Now, to him this really seemed the oddest argument in the world against the necessity for new churches. The hon. member for Aberdeen had spoken of churches as being composed merely of four stone walls, and had asked, of what use could they be to religion? Why, he had heard of religious service having been performed in tubs in open fields; but he certainly thought that the government of every state was bound to provide for the decent performance of the religious rites which it professed to uphold. As for the general principle of building new churches, it certainly ought to be a main object with government to provide for the union of sexes (sects) [laughter]. That union had been an object much attended to in Ireland. It was an union that it was of the greatest consequence to keep up [renewed laughter]. He apprehended, from the laughter in which hon. gentlemen indulged, that he had inadvertently committed some verbal inaccuracy. He need hardly say that, on such a subject, he had no intention to speak with levity, and he begged to give his cordial support to the motion.
 Dr. Lushington  said, he could not accede to the arguments which had been used against the proposition before the committee. On the contrary, he thought the grant was not only required by the necessities of the people, but was demanded from the House, no less as a measure of justice than of expediency. The principal object in erecting new churches ought to be to provide seats in them for such persons as were unable, from their poverty, to pay any thing for such accommodation. To this point he had particularly directed his attention, and in considering it now he besought the attention of the House to the ancient law and principle by which it bad been governed. It must be in the knowledge of many honourable gentlemen, that there still remained unrepealed upon the statute books, several acts of the reign of queen Elizabeth, by which all persons who absented themselves, from the ap-
 347 348 349 l l l 350
 Mr. Gordon  said, that when the chancellor of the Exchequer first proposed this measure, he had thought it a misapplication of the public money; but on reflection, he had found reason to alter his opinion, particularly when he found from the papers, that there was such a want of church accommodation. He was induced to alter his opinion after hearing the speech of the learned civilian, and more particularly was he convinced of the necessity of it after having heard the speech of the hon. member for Aberdeen. Since he had had the honour of a seat in that House, he had never heard a speech with which he was more dissatisfied. [Hear, hear, from some members on the opposition side.] He always found that when a member happened to differ from those with whom he usually acted, they were much less tolerant to him than those whom he usually opposed. This, however, should not prevent him from giving his conscientious opinion on every occasion, whether it was in unison with, or in opposition to, that of his political friends. It had been truly stated by the hon. and learned gentleman, that a set of peripatetic missionaries were going about the country, from house to house, endeavouring to infuse what they called stricter notions of religion into the people. He feared that this was a canting and hypocritical age; and it was because he saw less of that cant and hypocrisy in the established church, than amongst the evan-
 361
 Mr. Canning  expressed himself fully sensible of the disadvantages of the pro-sent system, and intimated that the earliest opportunity would be taken to improve it.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  would be glad to know whether it was not possible to remove those monuments from the Abbey. He thought it would be a fit subject for inquiry in a committee, whether those monuments, which the scandalous extortion of the clergy of the metropolis prevented the public from seeing, might not be removed. He would vote for their removal. Let a building be erected for them; let them be put up in any place where they could be seen. They ought to be rescued from the hands of that scandalous set of money-dealers the clergy of Westminster.
 Mr. Grey Bennet  said, it was not fair in the hon. member for Dover to throw out personal reflections, merely because the Catholic clergy professed a different faith.
 Mr. Monck  entertained some doubt whether the Dean and Chapter had any right to exclude the public. Up to the time of the Reformation, our churches were open all day, to allow the people to say their prayers; as was the case all over the continent at present. Nothing, he conceived, could be more shameful than for those persons to turn these public monuments to their own private advantage. It was a scandalous distinction between this and other countries.
 Mr. John Smith  said, that no man could feel more strongly than he did the importance of the present subject; but he was not one of those who thought that the building of churches was alone sufficient to improve the morals of the population. He was of opinion, that a grant of the public money, to be applied towards the purposes of education, would be much more desirable. He was by no means against the building of churches: but, might not churches be built without the aid of parliament? There might be some places which required churches, and, from local considerations, required the aid of parliament. In those particular cases, he would be the last to resist a vote for the building of churches. In Lancashire, and in some other places, it might be found necessary to build additional churches; and, for that purpose, he would have no objection to vote a sum of 100,000 l l
 Mr. Butterworth  was not aware that he had used any expressions that could be so construed; if he had, he wished to recal them. He spoke as a Protestant wishing to produce a moral generation. If the House were to compare the state of the lower orders in this country and in Scotland, with their condition in Roman Catholic countries, it would not long hesitate in deciding which system of education ought to be preferred.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, that the hon. member was certainly incorrect in his statement, that any controversy had existed in England, whether the Bible should be distributed with or without notes. He applauded the exertions of Mr. Allen, in favour of the education of the poor, and particularly praised his scriptural lessons, introduced throughout Russia, under the sanction of the Emperor. He was of opinion, that to give the poor of Ireland general instruction without Scriptural education, would be the worst and most pernicious thing that could be done. He had seen a petition from certain Roman Catholics, in which it was asserted, that if the Bible were placed without comment in the hands of youth, they might derive impressions from it that would have a mischievous effect on their minds. Now, he would ask, whether the poor of England, who had Scripture knowledge, were less moral than the poor of Ireland who had not? He looked upon the assertion to which he had alluded, as a gross libel on the word of God. How could any person assert, that the word of God was calculated to produce mischievous effects on the minds of youth?
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not wish the population of Ireland to be brought up without religious instruction. Let not that instruction, however, interfere with their religious feelings. The Catholics said, "You attack our conscientious prejudices, and thus prevent us from accepting the boon of education." This declaration was sufficient for his purpose; since it showed, that little good could be effected under the Kildare-street system. With respect to the sentiments which the hon. member had quoted, they merely went to this—"Such are the doctrines taught in the Bible, that if read by children of tender years, without interpretation, they may be productive of mischievous consequences." The Catholics did not say that they would not have the Bible taught, but that they would have it taught in their own way.
 Mr. Hume  said, that when this resolution was brought forward a few evenings since, it was discussed at so late an hour, that he had not an opportunity of noticing certain speeches which were delivered on that occasion. He now rose to enter his protest against the system which was pursued in the Kildare-street establishment—that establishment which had been so highly praised by a learned gentleman opposite (Mr. North). If the poor of Ireland, who were entirely Roman Catholics, were to be educated, he contended, that the public money devoted to that object ought not to be placed in the hands of the Kildare-street society. That
 322 323 324
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether any arrangement, with respect to the admission of the public to Westminster Abbey, had been made in consequence of what had fallen from the President of the Board of Control, relative to this subject, en a former evening? He understood the right hon. gentleman to say, that within his own recollection, the mode of admission was extremely easy, and the expense moderate; and he had been led to believe, that some negotiation was on foot, between government and those connected with the Abbey, to remove the difficulty of procuring admission which now existed. The public were, in fact, excluded from seeing monuments which were erected at their expense. Those monuments were the property of the public, and certainly were not placed in the Abbey to be concealed from public view. He was anxious to learn what measure had been or could be devised, to give the public full and free access to view them. If the charge now made for admission were an abuse, it ought to be rectified; if, on the other hand, the Dean and Chapter had a right to exact those fees, the public ought to buy their interest. There was an outcry on every side against the Dean and Chapter, for taking money to which they were not entitled. He wished to see all cause for such an outcry removed. Whilst, however, the present system continued, the people would talk; and therefore he called on ministers to make such an arrangement, as would secure to the public those advantages to which they were entitled, and thus put an end to all ground of complaint in future.
 Mr. Hume  inquired whether the right hon. secretary, or his majesty's government, had turned their attention to the situation of the Turkey Company. When that company was established there might have been reasons for the proceeding; but the question was, whether any reasons could be advanced for continuing it. He knew it might be defended on the ground of chartered rights: but chartered rights ought always to be given with reference to the public good; and so long as they produced public good, they should be continued. But, if this establishment inflicted evils on commerce, instead of effecting benefit, he thought no delay
 328
 Mr. Hume  said, he was sorry to obtrude himself upon the attention of the House, but really, after the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, he could not sit silent. He confessed he had never heard a speech with more regret, and at the same time a speech so little applicable to the subject. A more unfair allusion had never been made, than that of his hon. and learned friend to previous acts of parliament. He was greatly surprised to have heard a reference made to the acts of Elizabeth, by which Protestants were compelled to attend divine worship. Surely his hon. and learned friend must have forgotten the principle upon which those acts were founded. They were passed, in point of fact, to preclude persons of all denominations, from attending any place of divine worship, except the church of England. Did not his hon. and learned friend know that those acts were passed in support of the acts of Henry 8th after his separation from the church of Rome; and that they were directed against the church of Home alone? He was at a loss to discover how those statutes could be made to apply in the present day, unless his hon. and learned friend meant to resort to compulsion to procure attendance at divine worship. His hon. and learned friend had been equally unfortunate in a subsequent proposition which he had laid down. He said, that he wished the church to have fair play; and, in pursuance of that opinion, he had read some extracts from a pamphlet, or letter, for aught he knew, written by his hon. and learned friend himself. He did not mean to. say that that was the case in the present instance, but he really was at a loss to know for. what purpose that document had been read, unless his hon. and learned friend meant to commence a crusade against all dissenters. Had his. hon. and learned friend read what had been written of John Wesley by Mr. Southey? Mr. Southey had attributed all the reformation which Wesley had achieved, and all the
 351 352 l 353 s s l 354 l l l l l l l l 355 l l l 356 357
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  said, he approved of the grant of 60,000 l 326
 Mr. W. Smith  expressed his inability to support the grant until it should be ascertained whether the necessary funds could not be furnished out of the revenues of the established church.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  said, that formerly what was called Poet's Corner was open to all. That passage formed a very great convenience to those who had to pass through one part of Westminster. It brought them at once from the cloisters to this part of the town. The whole space between the organ and the western door was open, and the north aisle also. The only part of the Abbey to which individuals could not go without paying an attendant was Henry the seventh's chapel, and that could be seen for the small sum of 6 d s 327
 Lord Palmerston  regretted the change which seemed to have taken place in the opinion of the House upon this subject. At a period when the finances of the country were not in so flourishing a state,
 359 360
 Lord Normanby  rose to express his decided aversion to the measure. He said, he felt pleasure in hearing—not having been present on the former evenings of debate—that this was the last occasion on which the question would have to be agitated in that House; but he nevertheless felt it his duty to oppose it, even for the limited period to which ministers were desirous that it should be continued. It was a bill hostile to the principles of the British constitution, and in its operation outraged all those feelings with which, as Englishmen, we were bound to sympathise. Such a measure had never been resorted to by our ancestors, even when a Popish pretender resided at a foreign court, and was endeavouring, by his intrigues with foreigners, to overturn the government of this country. Having consolidated our own liberties, we exhibited too much indifference to the liberties of others. This Alien bill was evidently a connivance on the part of the British government with the members of the Holy Alliance. He readily allowed the mildness with which its provisions had been enforced by the right hon. gentleman opposite. But it was a question of feeling: and what must be the feelings of those gallant and honourable individuals who, having sacrificed their friends and their country rather than hold their liberties at the nod of a despot, and hoping to find security in a free country, were told, that it was a blessing on which they could not securely calculate, for that which we prized so highly ourselves we denied to others. Feeling the greatest objection to the bill, he would move, as an amendment, "That it be read a third time that day six months."
 Colonel Palmer  stated, that, being one of the half dozen individuals mentioned in a late speech, as opposing the general voice of the House and nation in praise of the measures of the government, he rose to defend his opinion, and declare his objection to this bill, considering it to be only a further measure of that weak and dishonourable policy, which aggravated the danger of the country. For what was the object of the ministers? It was not the security of their own government but those of the allied powers, and to conciliate those whose conduct they had reprobated in the strongest terms of indignation in the last session, but whom, in the present, they had not only flattered by their praises, but had actually invited to keep possession of the country of which they had so basely and treacherously made themselves masters. But, putting all honour, truth, or consistency out of the question, the effect of the measure totally defeated its intention; for the indignant, but honest language provoked by the discussion, and circulated throughout Europe by means of a free press, must goad the hostility of the allies, their hatred to England, and their efforts to destroy that liberty, incompatible with the principles they had established on the continent, and had pledged themselves to maintain The ministers, in the face of reason, common sense, and all the acts and declarations of both parties, still boasted of the good understanding betwixt them; but how was it possible these despotic powers could, be actuated by any more favourable sentiment than contempt for a government which, whatever might be its own feeling, was unable to control the feelings of the nation? For these reasons, and from a conviction of the hourly increasing danger of the country in this cause, which ad-
 363 364 "By Heaven, me thinks it were an easy leap To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon; Or dive into the bottom of the deep, Where fathom-line could never touch the ground, And pluck up drowned honour by the locks. But out upon this half-faced fellowship:" 365 "Yea, all that it inherit shall dissolve, And like the baseless fabric of a vision, Leave not a wreck behind." 366 367 "Who steals my purse, steals trash; his something, nothing; 'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him, And makes me poor indeed." 368 369 370
 Sir R. Fergusson  declared, that the grant proposed was a most useless application of the public money. He knew, of his own knowledge, that in a parish of Edinburgh, where the population had rapidly increased, two new churches and a chapel of ease had been built by public subscription within these few years. The principle observed in these churches was, to admit mere paupers free of any expense, and to charge mechanics, and persons in decent employ, a shilling a year for a seat. He much wished that the parliamentary grant were let alone, and had no doubt of soon finding places of worship, wherever a real necessity existed for them.
 Mr. S. Worthy , upon the clause providing for the punishment of night poachers and persons found with guns by night, moved, that after the word" game," the word "rabbits" be inserted; which amendment was agreed to.
 Mr. Mundy  observed, that in the case of the trial of these poachers, there was a prejudice, that the justices of the peace, being themselves sportsmen and game preservers, would strain the law in order to punish poachers. He therefore wished to take away a suspicion so injurious to the administration of justice. He had intended to transfer the jurisdiction, in all trials for the third offence (which subjected the poacher to transportation), to the justices of assize and gaol delivery, instead of the quarter-sessions. It had been objected, that many prisoners would rather be tried at once by the quarter-sessions, than lie in gaol till the assizes. He should, therefore, give them the option and would move an amendment to the following effect:—"Provided, that any person to be tried for such offence, shall, at the choice or option of such person, be bound over to be tried either at the general quarter-sessions of the peace, or before the justices of assize and gaol delivery."
 Mr. S. Wortley  appreciated the object of the amendment, and thought that, if any impression of a want of justice on the part of the magistrates existed, it would be well to remove it by transferring the jurisdiction to the judges of the land; confident, as he was, that the latter
 390
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, that as the law stood at present, no person was allowed to appoint a gamekeeper but the lord of the manor. Now, he thought every proprietor who had land enough to make it worth his while to do so, ought to have this privilege. The quantity of land so to entitle him, he would fix at 500 acres; a quantity for which he found a precedent in an act that passed some time since, permitting the nomination of gamekeepers under certain circumstances, in Wales. The hon. gentleman then moved a clause to that effect.
 Colonel Wood  was sorry to hear his hon. friend propose this clause, which, like some others in the bill, had thrown round it a great deal of unpopularity. It might now be fairly objected, that there would be ten lords of the manor for one. As to his hon. friend's precedent, the fact was, that in Wales there were large tracts of land that were not included in any manor whatever, and it became necessary to take care, by the appointment of gamekeepers, of the game upon them. For his own part, he believed, that at present there were no greater poachers than the gamekeepers themselves, and that so far from preventing poaching, they supplied half the game that was sold in London. The consequence of this clause would be, that every farmer of 500 acres, would nominate his own son his gamekeeper, and thus spoil a good farmer, and perhaps make a determined poacher. He saw no necessity for the clause.
 Mr. S. Wortley  observed, that the power of the gamekeeper was limited by the first clause of the bill, yet he had no objection to withdraw the clause, as it seemed to be the wish of the committee.
 Colonel Davies  objected to the clause, as it was at present worded. It would give the owners of small parcels of land contiguous to large estates, an opportunity of killing the game of their neighbours. He would propose, that the privilege of setting snares should be limited to persons possessing 100 acres, or entitled to the game on that quantity of land.
 Mr. S. Worthy  said, that at the end of the clause there was an exception in favour of persons using snares on their own land. The clause only went to prevent the use of such snares on lands not belonging to the parties, they not being appointed as gamekeepers on such lands, and to empower parties to seize any such snares, except they were set by the owners of the land, or by his or their permission,
 Colonel Davies  thought the clause still objectionable.
 Mr. S. Wortley  said, the principle of the bill was, to make game property, and that being the case, it was but natural that the owner of the land should have the power of destroying the game on his own grounds. In some cases, this would no doubt be productive of inconvenience, but it was but just that the poor man, whose small parcel of land was contiguous to a great preserve, should have some means of remunerating himself for the injury done to his land by the game of his neighbour.
 Sir J. Sebright  denied that farmers were always remunerated by lower rents for the destruction caused by game. He wished those who fed the game, to have the property of it, and therefore hoped the clause would not be given up.
 Lord John Russell  said, that no man would venture to say that the government should be exposed to the demands from foreign powers to which this bill subjected them. The ground of a supposed conspiracy, against a foreign state, was a fallacy to terms. In a conspiracy there must be not only actors, but a subject to act against. In a conspiracy set on foot in England against a foreign state, there was only one of those ingredients. The conspirators, while they observed the laws of the country, transacted nothing; it was only conversation—it was the shadow of a conspiracy, without the substance. Government could have no right to inquire into a conversation between particular persons, merely because they happened to bear a particular national character. If so, what conversation would be safe? Every man might be made responsible, in turn, to some aggrieved foreign government. If a man were to speak ill of the supremacy of the Pope, he would be objected against by a government which maintained the Pope's supremacy. Government could have no other fair method of treating aliens than by the laws which subjected its own people. Foreigners must have the same liberty of speech as natives. It was only acts of hostility against a foreign government which could be properly resented—such as the marching of troops against them, and the preparing of armaments. This might and did happen in the invasion of Spain. But, it could never be charged against any
 384
 Mr. Monck  thought, that if the committee were aware of the extensive powers that were vested in gamekeepers, they would decidedly oppose this clause. The 5th of Anne had very properly confined the power of nominating these keepers to the lords of manors. The statute of Charles enabled them to seize guns and dogs, and search houses; but after that act, came the 4thand5th William 3rd, by which gamekeepers were expressly authorised to resist all nightly offenders, in the same manner as if the offence had been committed in an ancient forest. Now, that enactment expressly referred to the oppressive law, 21 Edward 1st, by which it was declared, that if a tres-
 391
 Mr. Warre  had no hesitation in expressing his intention to support the vote. His hon. friend had spoken of a falling-off from the church; but had it never occurred to him, that this might proceed as well from the insufficiency of the churches, as from those qualities for which he gave the dissenters credit? He had reason to believe that there were many populous towns in which the people would eagerly attend the churches, if they had them, and if the duty were well done [hear!]. He said, "if the duty were well done," because he would not be understood to advocate the building of. churches, unless the pul-
 386
 Mr J. Wharton  thought the objections of the last speaker totally unfounded.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, he should vote for the grant, not on account of the increase of dissenters, but on account of the increase of infidelity. He was sorry to have heard, the other night, a most respectable society, he meant the Home Missionary society, spoken of in a harsh way by an hon. and learned gentleman (Dr. Lushington), whom he did not then see present. He knew that society to be a most useful and meritorious body. He knew that it sent missionaries to instruct
 388 l
 Mr. Hume  said, be could not allow the report to be brought up, being, as he was, so little satisfied with the reasons which had been given in the committee in support of the grant. He had already stated his opinion, that the money should not be voted, and after the length at which he had explained the grounds of that opinion, he felt it only necessary to say that he should now oppose the motion. First, because it was admitted by ministers themselves, that the money would not be wanted for three years to come. There had been no instance, he believed, in which the House had granted money, unless it was to be applied to the service of the year. It might have happened, that money had not been applied within that time; but that had arisen from some accidental circumstances, and had never been avowed by the ministers on their asking for the money. Secondly, he objected to the grant, because he thought the money required might be raised without the aid of parliament. He considered that the only object of the vote was, to increase the church patronage and church influence, already too extensive. He thought, too, that there were churches enough; and he did not believe that the number of persons who frequented them was increasing; but, on the contrary, that the zeal and ability of the dissenters were rapidly reducing the numbers of those who belonged to the church establishment. Thirdly, he thought the money, if granted at all, might be applied to better purposes; and for these reasons he moved, "that the report be received this day six months."
 Mr. Leycester  observed, that as it was generally understood that the bill would expire at the end of two years, it could be continued at the present time only from habit; but it was a bad habit, and
 362
 Mr. Denman  then proposed as an amendment in the body of the bill, that the words "two years" should be struck out, and the words "one year" inserted in their stead. The House divided on the question—"that the words proposed to be struck out stand part of the bill:" the numbers were, Ayes 111; Noes47; Majority 64.
 Mr Denman  said, that he had opposed the Alien act ever since he had had the honour of sitting in that House, and the present circumstances under which it was introduced, as it seemed to him, strengthened every argument against it. He could have wished that his majesty's ministers, by giving up at once that which they confessed it would be proper to give up two years hence, had spared to themselves and the House the trouble of a long debate. The system of long debates, however, did sometimes extort from the right hon. gentlemen opposite concessions which could not be attained in any other way; and it was some consolation to those who had resisted the present bill from its first introduction, to discover that there no longer existed any pretence for finding the powers which it gave inherent in the Crown. He believed there no longer was any one in the House who could oppose the opinion pronounced by the hon. and learned solicitor-general, two years ago—that Blackstone was wrong, and that there existed no where any authority which vested the right of dealing with aliens as a circumstance of prerogative in the Crown; and that opinion, if it could need corroboration, would be corroborated past all question by the fact, that even in the 22nd of Henry 8th an act of parliament had been distinctly passed to deal with the persons called Egyptians, or Gipsies, who had "introduced themselves into the realm contrary to law," by way of banishment—not leaving even these people, who were the vilest of the vile, to the prerogative of the Crown, but distinctly giving the Crown a power by proclamation, to proceed against them. The right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Peel) said, that the sovereign authority of the state held the power, by right, to dispose of aliens. Why, no doubt; and the sovereign authority of the state had the power to dispose of all the subjects of the
 371 372 373 374 375 376 377 378 379 s s s 380 381 382 383
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought the question was not, whether the existing churches were large or handsome enough, but whether they were adapted to the congregations they ought to hold. Any one who looked at the churches of our ancestors must be satisfied that they were built for the rich, and not for the poor. For the latter there was generally a solitary bench; while the former never experienced any. difficulty in obtaining seats and accommodation because they could afford to pay for them. The proposed system alone provided for the spiritual comfort of those who had been hitherto almost forgotten.
 Mr. Peel  said, his impression was very strongly in favour of the omission of the clause. He thought that, as it stood, it was likely to be productive of considerable litigation. As the general voice seemed to be so strong against it, he would request his hon. friend to withdraw it.
 Mr. Peel  thought it erroneous to suppose that game would be destroyed by the effect of this clause. He had no doubt, that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, the effect of it would be, a composition between the rich preserver of game and his poor neighbour, by which the former would give something for the injury done to the latter, and for the right of following and killing game on his land.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, the fact of the number of dissenters having so extensively multiplied, had been, he thought, too hastily assumed. He had known a parish; where there was no dissenting chapel, but where the church had been abandoned because it was badly served. In the city which he had the honour to represent, there were 37 churches, and yet there was no place in which there were so many dissenting chapels, and so well filled. This he believed, arose from no insufficiency, nor want of activity, in the clergymen of that city, who were in every way highly respectable; but he thought that, in this, as in every other case, it was caused by accidental circumstances, which applied to particular places. With respect to what had been said of the mode of appointing clergymen by election, he must observe, that he saw nothing objectionable in that mode. It had been said, that it was derogatory to the dignity of the
 387
 Sir Isaac Coffin , as an orthodox churchman, would vote for this grant. During the latter part of his life, he had found by experience, that there was a lamentable increase of those devil-killers, called methodists—such an increase as, he was sure must eventually undermine the church of England. These methodists were such rooting fellows, that let them once get into your house, they would soon get into the kitchen, from the kitchen they would get into the cellar—and the inevitable con-sequences among servants, were, prostitution and dishonesty [A laugh and cries of hear.]
 Sir J. Shelley  said, he had objected to the principle of the bill, because he thought its effect would be to destroy all the game in the country; but the privilege of setting snares would precipitate that destruction, and was therefore peculiarly objectionable.
 Mr. S. Rice  presented a petition from the merchants and traders of Dublin against the Dublin Coal bill. The petitioners considered the measure proposed by the hon. member for Dublin to be most injurious to their interests.
 Mr. Ellis  maintained, that the bill was calculated to remedy a system of gross fraud and injustice, which had been long carried on in the coal trade of Dublin.
 Lord Lowther  observed, that the opposition to the measure was by no means general. On the contrary, he believed, the bill met with the approbation of a majority of the persons interested.
 Mr. S. Rice  said, that this measure had created the greatest interest in the city of Dublin. The chamber of commerce, and other most respectable bodies, had petitioned the House against the bill, and not a single petition had been presented in its favour.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, that the tax on coals levied by the magistrates was equal to
 395
 Mr. Ellis , in moving the second reading of the Dublin coal-trade bill, said, that the great object of this measure was, to remedy a system of unheard of frauds in the sale of coals in that city. Most of the petitions against the bill came from a class interested in the continuance of that system, with the exception of the petition from the chamber of commerce, which was, undoubtedly, entitled to serious consideration, and some of the suggestions in which he had himself adopted. The coal trade in Dublin had been regulated by an act of parliament, brought in by his distinguished predecessor, the late member for that city, Mr. Grattan, and most of the provisions in the present bill, which was supposed to have excited so much alarm, were the same as those which had been suggested by that distinguished statesman. That bill, however, had been inoperative, in consequence of the impossibility of carrying into effect the severe penalties which it imposed, and it bad become necessary to introduce new regulations on sounder principles of commercial policy. The right hon. member for Waterford had expressed his conviction, that the real object of this bill was to legalise the exactions of the corporation of Dublin. He could only say, that if such had been the object of the bill, some other person must have been found to bring it forward in that House. He would no more lend his aid to the object of legalising the exactions of the corporation of Dublin than the right hon. baronet. So far was this, however, from being the object of the bill, that the effect of it would be, to diminish very considerably the power of the corporation. The real objects of the bill were three—first, to secure the quality of the coals sold, and to prevent them from being sold under false denominations; a species of fraud which was carried to a great extent in the city of Dublin. This would be effected by regulations requiring a strict designation of the port from which the coals came. The second object of the bill would be, to provide that the due weight of coals should be sold to the consumer. The third object which he bad in view was, to regulate the sale of
 396 s
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  opposed the motion. The measure he considered to be perfectly uncalled for. There were already two bridges, Kew-bridge and Putney-bridge, within a mile and a half of the site of the intended bridge, which would lead to a part where there were at present hardly any inhabitants. Private rights ought not to be thus invaded; and, if this bill were passed, the rights of the proprietors of Kew-bridge would be materially injured. But, leaving private interests out of the question, this appeared to be a measure that was not called for by the public, either in Middlesex or Surrey, and therefore he should move, "that this bill be read a second time this day six months."
 Mr. Hume  hoped the learned serjeant would be induced to wave his opposition to the measure. The learned serjeant did not, and could not, argue that bridges were not a great accommodation. All he said was, that there were already two bridges in existence, one above, the other below the place where it was intended to erect the new bridge; and he considered that the interest of the proprietors would be affected if an additional bridge was built. But, supposing that to be the fact, still it did not form an objection to the
 398
 Mr. Sykes  said, that the proprietors of Fulham-bridge had a right, if the present measure were carried, to come before the House and demand compensation for the bridge, which they had built for the accommodation of the public. Unless proper compensation would be afforded to those parties, he should certainly oppose the bill.
 Lord Lowther  did not think that the individuals on whose behalf compensation was demanded, deserved that extensive remuneration for which gentlemen contended. They had taken good care to pay themselves handsomely, by the exaction of extravagant tolls. Persons frequently passing and re-passing Putney-bridge paid nearly as much in the course of a year, as they could rent a house for. He hoped the bill would be read a second time. The question of compensation could then be examined in a committee, and the parties interested would probably be induced to come to some compromise. At all events, it was most desirable that this bridge monopoly should be put an end to.
 Mr. Denison  believed that the tolls alluded to did not amount to more than 9,000 l l l
 Sir F. Ommaney  spoke in favour of the bill, and complained strongly of the insecure state of Putney-bridge. Not long since, a friend of his happened to be riding over that bridge, when the fore-feet of his horse sank into a hole, and both horse and rider were placed in a most perilous situation.
 Mr. Lockhart  contended, that the interests of parties connected with the other bridges in the neighbourhood ought not to be neglected. Unless an assurance were given, that they would be properly compensated, he should give the bill every opposition in his power.
 Mr. Curteis  was friendly to the measure.
 399
 Sir J. Yorke  opposed the bill. It might be very well to individuals to have good level roads to walk upon; or, to use a homely phrase, that they should have an opportunity of steering to any point of the compass they pleased; but it was really a heart-rending thing, when roads were cut in every direction round gentlemen's estates, which previously were quiet and retired. The House ought to consider this, and pause before they passed the bill.
 Mr. Byng  defended the measure as one of great public utility. As to compensation, that was a point which could be best considered in the committee.
 Sir J. Graham  said, the intended bridge would be of no use, unless new roads and approaches were made in its neighbourhood; and this could not be done without sacrificing property to a great extent, as was the case with the Southwark-bridge. It was a measure for which there was no necessity, since it would not save five hundred yards in the distance between London and Richmond, and therefore, in his opinion, it ought not to be countenanced by the House. They were told, that the question of indemnity to the parties whose interests would be affected might be settled in the committee: but, what indemnity could be derived from a bridge that would never pay a shilling to the subscribers? If indemnity were intended, it ought to be charged upon some certain substantial security. For his part, he thought it would be a mercy to the speculators themselves to prevent them from proceeding farther.
 Sir J. Sebright  said, that if the arguments of those who opposed the bill were to prevail, no public improvement whatsoever could take place; because, in every instance, it must interfere in some degree with the property of individuals. If they looked to their own times however, they would find that such arguments were not received as sound ones. Improvements had succeeded each other beyond all precedent, because wealthy individuals found that to be the best mode for the employment of their capital. He was decidedly in favour of the present measure; for he detested monopolies of all kinds. They only tended to shut the door against useful improvements.
 Mr. H. Sumner  advocated the measure as a necessary and proper one. It was
 400
 Mr. Philips  thought the measure most unwise, for it went to restore all the old prejudices of trade, against which the House had been so long contending. It proceeded upon the principle, that all the coal-dealers were knaves, and all the
 397
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, he did not rise to oppose the reception of the petition. He concurred entirely in what had been just said on the impropriety of premature discussion, but he was bound in justice to express his regret, that this petition, stating facts, drawing inferences, and terminating in a prayer founded upon reasoning, had been presented, before the House was in a situation to form a judgment on the case. If, therefore, in compliance with the suggestion of the hon. and learned member, he now abstained from entering into any details, it was most distinctly to be understood, that be was not thereby to be precluded hereafter from pointing out the extreme inaccuracies with which the petition abounded. He concurred also in what had been said as to the character of the petitioners. No doubt they had no wish to deceive; but, on the other hand, he was called upon to express his firm belief, that, on some points, they had been grossly deceived. He doubted also, whether they had exercised a sound discretion in the course they had pursued. l 402 403 404 405 406 407 408
 The Solicitor General  would not oppose the motion for leave to bring in the bill, but contended that the present law on the subject did not require alteration.
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, it was an unnecessary hardship to require the Roman Catholics to be married in the Protestant churches. He thought that something might be done to legalize their marriages, after publication of bans in the Protestant church.—Leave given to bring in a bill.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he would take upon himself to affirm that this bill was looked forward to, with great expectation and satisfaction by the most respectable citizens of Dublin. The poor of Dublin were at present completely at the mercy of the coal-factors. The law gave them the power of going to the vessel's side to purchase coals, and also allowed the appointment of coal-meters, but he thought it would be a great advantage if the duties were confined solely to the coal-meters. Now, this was proposed to be accomplished by the present bill.
 Mr. Dawson  maintained, that the bill was calculated to rescue the inhabitants of Dublin from the fraudulent and iniquitous system on which the coal trade was conducted in that city.
 Mr. Grattan  said, that the strongest objections to the bill were generally entertained in Dublin.
 Mr. Grattan  said, the hon. and learned gentleman had made an allusion to a bill which had been introduced by his father; but the House must perceive that, although the penalties of that act were severe, it was very far indeed from conferring the summary powers which were proposed to be granted by the bill now before them; such as empowering the Lord Mayor, without bail or mainprise, to commit persons to prison. The proposed measure would throw impediments in the way of all the coal-dealers in the country, of the corporation of the city of Dublin, or of the hon. and learned gentleman who was their organ; but he thought that the House ought not to consent to a measure for the purpose of gratifying a party from which neither the country at large, nor the city of Dublin, would derive any benefit. He should therefore move that this bill be read a second time this day six months.
 Mr. Curwen  said, that as the learned gentleman had abandoned three-fourths of his bill, he would recommend him to abandon the remainder, and leave whatever regulations were necessary to the committee on local taxation, from whom it would be much more suitable that the bill should originate.
 Mr. Curwen  was surprised to hear the observations which had fallen from the noble lord. A petition against the bill would shortly be presented from Whitehaven, in which the same sentiments would be still more strongly enforced.
 Mr. Curwen  presented a similar petition, signed by four hundred merchants and ship-owners, trading between Dublin and Whitehaven.
 Mr. Monck  said, there was great public inconvenience in the present state of the law, on account of the number of poor Irish Roman Catholic children thrown upon some of the parishes, because, though born in Popish wedlock, they were not held by law legitimate.
 Dr. Phillimore  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the laws regarding the Baptisms, Marriages, and Burials of Roman Catholics in England. After stating the great inconveniences to which the Roman Catholics were subject, as the law and usage at present stood, the hon. and learned gentleman proceeded to observe, that the
 409
 Sir H. Parnell  read an extract from the petition of the chamber of commerce, which stated that every clause in the bill contained a restriction, and every restriction was accompanied with severe penalties. This statement fully marked the objectionable character of the measure.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  rose to present a petition from the London Missionary Society, formed for the propagation of Christianity in heathen and other unenlightened countries, composed of ministers of various dissenting denominations. It complained of the trial, proceedings, and sentence against the Rev. J. Smith, who it was but too well known had been a Missionary from this Society at Demerara. He did not intend to enter into any statement of the case, or to make any remarks that might lead to discussion, or call for animadversion, because such a course would be in the highest degree inconvenient and improper, on a matter so painful and important, before the House was fully in possession of all the facts connected with it. The delay in the printing of the trial had been such, that it was not yet in the possession of the members of the House. Another opportunity would be afforded for debating the question. He therefore not only abstained himself, but he suggested to other members the fitness of not entering into any premature discussion. In justice to the petitioners, he owed one single observation to them; it was, that he believed them to be worthy and excellent persons, liable, like all others, to be deceived, but incapable of practising intentional deception. On their part it was his duty further to state, that it was their most anxious wish to separate the object they had in view from all ques-
 401
 Sir R. Shaw  said, that although there were some clauses in the bill, to which, in their present state, be might object, still, with the explanations that had been given by his learned colleague, he thought it would be desirable to go into the committee.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that if the hon. member would look to the signatures of the petition, he would find that it had been signed by the principal merchants and inhabitants of Dublin. He believed, in his conscience, that the bill had no other object than to legalise the exactions of the corporation of Dublin.
 Lord Stanley  presented a petition from Bolton against the repeal of the Combination Laws.
 Lord Stanley  said, he had already presented two petitions, praying that the
 410
 Mr. Philips  could not concur with the hon. member, that the ferocious character of the combinations in Lancashire had been produced by the Combination laws themselves. That those laws were ineffectual, as a remedy for evils against which they were intended to provide, he was ready to admit; but he could not agree that they were the cause of the enormities produced by combinations among workmen. Combinations did not, for the most part, take place while wages were low, but when wages were high. The most ferocious combinations had taken place in Glasgow and Manchester when the rate of wages amounted to from 30 s s
 Mr. Lushington  rose to move for the repeal of certain acts relating to the Flaying of Hides and Skins. The considerations which induced him to move for the repeal of these acts were, that they were unnecessary, vexatious, expensive, and unjust; and he was sure they would appear so to any one who examined them. They
 411
 Mr. Maberly  objected to the mode in which the hon. gentleman seemed disposed to proceed with respect to the repeal of these laws. His object seemed to be to exonerate the town trader, but to leave the laws respecting the country trader in all their oppressive operations. The best course to have pursued would have been to have moved for a committee up stairs. He would venture to affirm, that it would have been distinctly proved by evidence before that committee, that so far from those laws being unnecessary, they had been the means of. preserving one-fifth of the whole of this material. If what were called long stripes were wanted, the hides were frequently rendered unfit for the purpose of obtaining them in consequence of the negligence of the butcher. He was far from denying that the law, as it stood, did not require modification; but he contended, that no alteration in it ought to be attempted, until the whole question had been considered in detail.
 Sir R. Fergusson  maintained the expediency of repealing the existing law. What did that law do? Fine a man for injuring his own property! Suppose, by any unfortunate accident, the gallant general who had just spoken, were to make a hole in his pantaloons, how would he like to be fined for the misadventure? The existing law proceeded on the ridiculous supposition, that the tanners did not know their own business.
 Mr. Lushington  expressed his persuasion, that if the subject were referred to a committee, so much delay would take place, that it would be impracticable to: get the bill through parliament in the course of the present session. Convinced as he was, that the matter was perfectly clear, he thought it was too much to ask him to submit to such an inconvenience.
 Lord Clifton  supported the repeal of the present law.
 Mr. Curteis  maintained, that the present law was most inconvenient and ridiculous. If a butcher's boy, in killing a pig, happened to make a mistake in the manner of doing it; and if the inspector on the spot declared that he had killed it improperly, then, according to the present law, a high tribunal was formed, consisting of eight and twenty persons; namely, seven butchers, seven tanners, seven curriers, and seven shoemakers, before whom the matter was brought for adjudication.
 Mr. Bright  wished to know whether the hon. mover of the bill would consent to its going before a select committee above stairs.
 General Gascoyne  observed, that the hon. mover had shown no reasons whatever for repealing the existing law. There could be no doubt, in his mind, that the measure ought to undergo a thorough investigation in a committee; and he was persuaded, that if the hon. gentleman's bill should pass into a law, a year would not elapse before the House would be glad to get rid of it. The general hostility entertained in the country to the proposed repeal, had been sufficiently manifested by the petitions which had already been presented on the subject, all expressing the decided conviction of the petitioners, that the repeal of the existing law would be attended by serious inconveniences.
 Mr. Curwen  admitted that the existing acts were abominably unjust and injurious, but strongly recommended that the subject should undergo the previous examination of a committee.
 Mr. Mansfield  said, he could not hear, without much regret, the observation of the hon. member, as to master manufacturers being intimidated by their workmen, and consequently prevented from stating their opinion of the Combination laws before a committee of that House. He begged to state, that no such feeling prevailed between masters and their workmen in the place which he had the honour to represent. The most respectable-master manufacturers in Leicester concurred in opinion with their workmen, that the Combination laws ought to be repealed. He was sorry to hear that such hostile feelings prevailed between masters and their workmen in any part of the country; and he was satisfied that they had been produced by the very laws which the workmen were anxious to repeal.
 Mr. J. Martin  was also desirous to know whether the hon. gentleman would consent to allow the subject to be previously investigated before a select committee, or would send the bill to such a committee in its progress. The first course would, in his opinion, be the best. The proposal for repealing the existing law had created a great sensation among those who were interested in the subject; and it was due to them, that the expediency of the measure should be satisfactorily ascertained.
 Mr. Hume  expressed a wish that those persons who opposed the repeal of the Combination laws, would give evidence before the committee in support of their views. The committee had now sat a considerable time, and no evidence whatever had been produced in favour of those laws.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that on looking at the acts which it was intended to repeal, he found that they were not public acts. He recommended his hon. friend, therefore, when his bill should come to the stage of the committee, to move that it be referred to the consideration of a select committee above stairs. Of this he was quite persuaded, that should the measure be discussed in a committee of the whole House, endless petitions would be presented against it, and much valuable lime would be lost.
 Mr. James  thought there could not be two opinions on the subject. The two acts ought by all means to be repealed.
 Mr. S. Rice , in presenting a petition, signed by upwards of 2,000 respectable inhabitants of Drogheda, complaining of the exclusion of Roman Catholics from grand juries, corporations, &c. stated, that the petitioners expressed their gratitude for the relaxation of the laws in their behalf, but complained that the benefits of that relaxation were intercepted by local influence. Notwithstanding the act of 1793, authorising Roman Catholics to be summoned on grand Juries, from that time up to the present moment, not a single Catholic had ever been summoned on a grand jury in the town of Drogheda. The injustice of this exclusion was the more manifest, as the proportion of Catholics to protestants in Drogheda, with respect to numbers, was nine to one; and with respect to property, two to three. While Catholics of the first rank and respectability were excluded, individuals not resident, nor possessing an acre of land, in Drogheda, were placed on these grand juries. On the same principle of unjust exclusion, the freedom of the city had been refused to sir T. Esmond, a Roman Catholic baronet of the first rank and character, while it had been granted to individuals possessing no property in the town of Drogheda.
 Mr. C. Smith  reminded the House, that the conscientious feelings, which prevented these scrupulous fishmongers from selling fish on a Sunday, could not by any possibility operate upon the Jews. 416 417 418 l 419
 Mr. Butterworth  observed, that whilst the law permitted one description of fish to be sold upon a Sunday, very few fishmongers would dare to refuse to sell any kind of fish that their customers might require. It was on that very account that the petitioners wished the clause, allowing the sale of Mackerel on Sundays, to be repealed. They were aware, that even if the trade were to meet and to determine among themselves not to sell fish on a Sunday, they could not prevent it from being sold by the Jews and the low Irish. With regard to the suggestion of the hon. member for Newcastle, he would merely observe that the petitioners were anxious to have their names known, and were so far from wishing to conceal them, that they had actually printed and circulated their petition with their names attached to it. He would tell the hon. member for Newcastle, that his illustrious ancestor Bishop Ridley, who suffered in the cause of the Reformation, would not have treated this petition with the ridicule which he had bestowed upon it.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, that he had a petition to present from several fishmongers and poulterers in the cities of London and Westminster, to which he wished to call the serious attention of the House. The hon. member then recited the heads of the petition, from which it appeared, that the petitioners wished to obtain the repeal of a clause in the act of William 3rd, which permits the sale of mackarel on a Sunday, on the ground that the permission is abused to sell other fish upon that day. He maintained, upon the authority of several fishmongers, that mackerel might be kept as fresh for twenty-four hours as any other fish; and, as that was the case, he trusted the House would pay some regard to the prayers of the petitioners.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not object to the bringing up of the petition, because he was of opinion, that all descriptions of persons had a right to present their petitions to the House. He could not, however, refrain from observing, that it appeared most strange to him that the petitioners should call upon the House to interfere in a matter of this nature. The petitioners prayed the House not to compel them to do a certain act, which they needed not to do unless they chose. He would put it to the fishmongers themselves whether it would not be better for them to meet together and determine not to sell fish on a Sunday than to trouble the House with such a petition. Had he been one of the gentlemen who had a conscientious objection to selling fish on the Lord's day, he should never have dreamt of calling upon the House to com-
 415
 Mr. Hume  thought this subject highly deserving the attention of the House. It was impossible that tranquillity could be restored in Ireland until full justice was done to all classes of his majesty's subjects in that country. He was aware there was a difficulty in interfering with corporate rights; but, if ever there was a case in which such a course could be justified, it was the heavy grievance of which these petitioners complained; and he sincerely hoped the king's ministers would turn their serious attention to the statements contained in the petition.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that a more ridiculous, absurd, and he would add, canting petition, had never been presented to the House [hear, hear]. If the petitioners really found a difficulty in the present practice, he would suggest to them a mode by which they could get rid of it. When the petition was printed, let their names be printed along with it. The public would then know who these conscientious and scrupulous fishmongers were, and would, perhaps take care not to trouble their tender consciences in future. If it were not irregular, he would move that the names of the petitioners be printed along with the petition.
 Sir J. Newport  observed, that in the city which he had the honour to represent, the act of 1793 had had a full and fair operation. A large number of Roman Catholics had been admitted both to serve on grand juries, and to a participation in the freedom of the city. It was disgraceful to the character of other corporations
 414
 Sir T. Baring  said, he could not treat the petition with the ridicule which the two last speakers had endeavoured to fling upon it. If it were just to vote away the public money for the erection of new churches, on the ground that it was sound policy to diffuse proper religious feelings through the community, surely it was just to adopt such measures as would prevent any improper profanation of the Sabbath. It had been asked, why did these fishmongers, who reprobated the present practice of selling fish on a Sunday, follow it themselves? The answer was easy. If they did not sell fish on a Sunday as others of their trade did, they would soon lose all their custom, and see their families reduced to ruin.
 Lord Lowther  defended the measure, as one which would be extremely advantageous to the country. He therefore wished the bill to be re-committed. It was said, that the landed proprietors were adverse to the railway; but the fact was, that the real ground of opposition sprang from the noble marquis to whom allusion had been made, although he was prepared to contend, that the proposed work would not touch an inch of that noble person's estate. The true reason of the opposition manifested against the measure was, a spirit of jealousy which existed in the north of the county of Durham, as to affording this additional facility for the conveyance of that valuable commodity, coals, to the metropolis and elsewhere. Being perfectly convinced of the utility of the railway, he should move, as an amendment, "that the report from the committee on the petition complaining that the Standing Orders had not been complied with, be re-committed."
 Colonel Wood  said, that none of the local proprietors were in favour of the measure. It was complained, that Mr. Wright had altered his opinion. The reason was, because the line of road which was at first communicated to him had been subsequently changed. With respect to him, it was quite clear that the standing orders had not been complied with, and therefore they ought not to proceed with the bill.
 Lord Oxmantown  contended, that the agreement proposed in the bill was not fair towards both parties. The provisions of it were too much in favour of the clergy. Some more effectual measure of relief was necessary, and particularly with regard to the levying of tithes in kind. The bill was not only unequal towards the landed but towards the ecclesiastical interest; since it gave the extortionate clergyman a decided advantage, in any final arrangement by commissioners, over the liberal and considerate pastor. He was by no means in favour of the compulsory clause of last year, but he wished a fair option to be allowed.
 Mr. Goulbourn  said, he was not desirous to shun any comments that might be made upon this measure by gentlemen on either side of the House; and was prepared, either now or in a later stage, to defend its principle, and to explain its details. The necessity of some amendment to the bill of last year was admitted on all hands, and those who wished to accomplish this object, as well as those who were desirous of correcting the errors and of supplying the deficiencies of the
 423 l 424
 Mr. Dennis Browne  justified the application of the powers given by the constabulary act, and assured the House, that in his own county the constables were impartially chosen, and that their conduct had given permanent peace to the district.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought that the speeches of the right hon. baronet, and of the hon. gentleman opposite, would have been much more appropriate if addressed to the committee. Almost all the arguments advanced applied to the bill of last session, and were therefore in favour of the present bill, which proposed an amendment. But, let the House examine a little in detail the speech of his hon. friend, who spoke last. His hon. friend had said, with respect to the composition, that many of the parties had been entrapped into their agreements: but his hon. friend must admit, that the number of appeals to the lord lieutenant and council was the most conclusive evidence as to the truth of the fact. Now, there had been ninety instances of composition, and out of these there had been but five appeals. Was it not clear, then, that five per cent was the extent of dissatisfaction. If the House were to examine the bill now before them, they would find that a very small part of it indeed was open to objections. By voting for the second reading of the bill, no member would be pledged to support all the enactments it contained, nor would he be precluded from adopting any amendments that might be proposed. The arguments which had been advanced, clearly proved the great importance of the subject; but he differed altogether from his hon. friend, as to the extent of the responsibility attaching to an individual who introduced a proposition. Every one was at liberty to propose a measure; but, if sound and serious objections were made against it, and he still persevered, then began the responsibility. By the forms of the House, seve-
 426
 Mr. Dennis Browne  expressed his astonishment at the ignorance which prevailed in this country with respect to the real condition of Ireland. Gentlemen seemed no more to be aware of the consequence of taking off these bounties, than they were of the interests of the remotest part of America, although Ireland was, in fact, within a stone's throw of them. At one time he heard there were no exports of coarse linens, and that they drew no bounties. Both assertions were equally fallacious, and he was astonished that any minister could make so great a mistake. It had been said, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had made a great concession; but he maintained that he had no right whatever to interfere with these bounties. The people of Ireland had a chartered right to every possible advantage, until that branch of national industry had arrived to a state of perfection. This was a language which had been held by the British parliament, and echoed by the British king. No country had ever stood higher than England for a proud sense of honour and good faith, amongst foreign nations; but it was a monstrous violation of national faith with respect to Ireland, to interfere with her, or to meddle with her in any way: and it was quite absurd for the chancellor of the Exchequer to apply any of his rules of policy to her in her pre-
 428
 Mr. Hutchinson  regretted that he had to rise after the observations of the hon. baronet, but, in opposing his views, he spoke the sentiments of others better acquainted with the subject than himself. His hon. friend asserted, that the condition of the people engaged in Ireland, in this particular branch of manufacture was not improved by the continuance of the bounties; but those engaged in the trade entertained an opinion exactly the reverse, and the manufacturers in the south and west of Ireland strongly opposed the repeal of such bounties. There was ready for presentation a petition from the county of Cork, signed by 60,000 persons, which asserted the advantages to be derived from the operation of the bounties now
 431
 Colonel Trench  approved of the general principle; but the linen trade had always been a forced trade. It had been made by the bounties, and those bounties ought not now to be discontinued. He knew that much linen was made for the sake of the bounties; and however just the general principle on which it was proposed to repeal them might be, still something ought to be conceded to the fears of the people.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he had made many inquiries on the subject, and had been informed by several manufacturers, that the taking off the bounties would have no effect on the trade. These gentlemen were well qualified to judge what would be the effect of the repeal. For his own part, he thought the repeal would be of no disadvantage. The trade was too well established to be hurt thereby. Linen to the amount of 2,500,000 l l l. 432
 Mr. H. Sumner  could not consent to this summary mode of oversetting a bill which would unquestionably promote the public interest. If the proposed railway were formed, there would be a greater and a more rapid supply of coals in the London market.
 Sir H. Hardinge  rose for the purpose of moving, "That the committee on the above bill be discharged from proceeding thereon." This he did, because the standing orders which applied to private bills had not been complied with, in reference to certain individuals whose estates would be injured if the measure were carried. It was proposed that the railway should cross a road belonging to a noble friend of his (the marquis of Londonderry), and that it should be carried on for a considerable distance near his park. This would be a very great nuisance, and was the less justifiable, because any benefit which the railway was calculated to produce would be reaped by others whose estates would not be affected by the intended work. The standing orders relative to private bills ought to be strictly supported; and as the present measure had been clandestinely brought into the House, he would give it every opposition in his power.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, if the gentlemen who supported the bill would assure him that the railway would not go near the estate of the marquis of Londonderry, he should withdraw all opposition. He had no wish whatever to crush any rivalry or competition in the coal trade.
 Mr. Grattan  said, that he felt himself
 422
 Mr. Grattan  said, that, with all his opposition to the bill before the House, and deprecating, as he did, the principle on which it was founded, because he thought it inimical to the landed proprietors of Ireland, he thought it might be better not to divide the House upon it in its present stage.
 Mr. Curwen  would vote for the re-committal of the report, under the assurance of the noble lord that the rail-road would not pass over Mr. Wright's estate.
 Mr. Hume  thought the hon. baronet had been quite misunderstood. It was his opinion, that the bounties were of no good to the peasantry, whatever they might be to the consumers. The reduction proposed was so gradual and trifling, that it was quite absurd to suppose that any evil could result from it.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he hoped that, in endeavouring to prevail upon the chancellor of the Exchequer to alter his opinion, he should not be accused of inconsistency; for he had seen, on various occasions, gentlemen who were more pledged than he could be supposed to be by character or experience to the principles of free trade, to make exceptions in particular instances. He was persuaded, that if individuals interested in the linen trade had as frequent access to government, as those in the silk and other great manufactures, although he did not expect they could prevail on the chancellor of the Exchequer to abandon those principles
 427
 Mr. Spring Rice  regretted that the discussion of this question should have taken place in the absence of many gentlemen who had taken a part in it, and who felt a peculiar interest in the topics connected with it. The right hon. gentleman opposite surely could not be serious in supposing, that because a particular act of parliament required amendment the House was bound to receive any amendment which he might propose. He objected to the principle of the bill, because it took away from landed proprietors the protection which was left to them under the bill of last session. The bill strengthened the hands and augmented the property of the Clergy, without giving any corresponding advantage to the landed proprietor. The act of last session gave to the inheritor of the land, if he were the occupant of the soil, an increased number of votes, in proportion to the amount of his property, but the present bill took away this privilege, and deprived him of that fair preponderance to which property was entitled. He would appeal to any landed proprietor in that House; whether
 425
 Sir H. Parnell  said, he would, in the first instance, examine the question with reference to facts only, and endeavour to show that the opinions of the member for Kilkenny were erroneous. The hon. member, and all those who, with him, advocated these bounties, conceived the system which governed the linen manufacture of Ireland, to be perfection itself: and whenever a part of it was touched, without taking much trouble to think about the matter, at once proclaimed the manufacture would be destroyed, and the country ruined. He had taken pains to find out how these bounties could secure the object of those who supported them. It was said, they were necessary to maintain and extend the manufacture of coarse linens in Ireland. But this manufacture had more to fear from other causes than the loss of the bounty. It had to contend against the English and Scotch manufacturer of coarse linens, who imported foreign yarn at 1 s 429 430
 Sir H. Parnell  replied to the observations of the member for the county of Derry by saying, that it was not a correct way of judging of the effect of the linen manufacture, to look only to the province of Ulster. There might be found other reasons which explained the prosperity of that part of Ireland, independent of the linen manufacture. What he was ready to maintain was, that the linen manufacture had not led to the improved condition of the lower orders; that their earnings were very low; that a great part of those earnings were absorbed in rent; and, on the whole, that there were many extensive tracts of country in Ireland, where the linen manufacture existed, without the operative manufacturers being in a state to command more than the most miserable subsistence, with bad clothing, and bad habitations. This was a proposition he was ready to go into in the detail, whenever a fit opportunity presented itself. As to the opinions contained in petitions, he paid very little attention to sweeping assertions of the improved condition of the people; and as to linens having been made for the sake of the bounties, that he knew had been the case, but greatly to the discredit and injury of the manufacture. On the whole, he begged the House to remember, that the bounties cost the country 300,000 l
 Sir J. Yorke  rose to second the amendment. He did not wish to make use of hard words, but the opposition to the measure appeared to him to be so extreme a job, that he had quitted the committee altogether. The evidence of Mr. Wright, whose estate, it was said, would be affected by the work, seemed to be so wrong, so coquettish—now assenting to, and then dissenting from the measure that he could make nothing of it. His gallant friend had said a great deal about the hardship of carrying this road through a noble lord's estate; but, on other occasions, they heard nothing of the impropriety of making encroachments on private property, where a great public work required it. When it was proposed to erect a bridge at Hammersmith, the question of private property was not allowed to interfere with the measure. Here it was proposed to form a vast public work, by means of which a larger supply of coals would be furnished to the metropolis, and the existing monoply would be weakened. A great field was opened for the employment of capital for a useful purpose; and therefore he for one could not consent to the abandonment of the measure, on the plea that the road would pass near a nobleman's estate.
 Sir J. Newport  said, the question was not whether the act of last session required amendment, but whether the bill which the right hon. gentleman had introduced, really went to amend that act. He thought that the present bill, so far from amending the act of last session, was a deterioration of it. What was already bad was made worse by the proposed bill; and, on that ground, he thought it ought to be rejected. In his opinion, the only mode in which the bill of last session could be amended, would be to strike out every part of it, except the preamble, and substitute a new bill. It was idle to waste the time of the House in discussing a bill which was so essentially bad, that it did not admit of amendment. The object of the bill was, to shut out landed proprietors from the Vestries and to exclude them from all interference with concerns in which they were mainly interested.
 Sir J. Newport  wished the further consideration of the bill to be postponed until it could be entered upon more maturely. He had been disposed, in the first instance, to look at the measure in a favourable light, but was compelled upon consideration to arrive at the conclusion, that the present bill would augment all the evils of the act of the last session.
 Lord Milton  said, the real question in this case was, whether the rivers Tyne and Wear should be the only outlets for the carriage of coals, or whether the Tees should not also be included? The
 421
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  replied, that it was perfectly true that, in the course of the discussions last year on this subject, he had given the distillers of Scotland, and the House, reason to believe that it was his intention in the present session to propose some definitive measure respecting it. It was not without great regret that he found himself unable to do so. But he could assure the House, that this omission did not arise in the slightest degree from any denial on his part of the allegations in the petition, or from any doubt of the injustice and unreasonableness of the law in its present state. He was quite as satisfied as the noble lord, that the law could not remain in its present inconsistent condition. It was unquestionably unjust that Irish spirits should be admitted into this country on certain terms, while Scotch spirits were excluded; but, the House would do him the justice to recollect, that the measure by which this anomaly was established, was not introduced by him. He found the law as it now stood, and as it had long stood. But he repeated his regret, that he could not, with a view to the satisfaction of the interests particularly concerned, and of those of the country at large, propose a definitive measure on this subject in the present session. It would be most unwise to do any thing prematurely with respect to it. The measure which he had last year introduced was partial; and he had introduced it only because the evil was one of so crying a nature as to require immediate remedy. As far as it went it had been successful: but it tended to produce an evil in an opposite direction. It was his most anxious desire to bring forward a bill, that should be completely and permanently satisfactory. All that he asked was, not to be forced into a premature and undigested measure, which would merely throw matters into a state worse than that in which they were at present.
 Mr. Hutchinson  protested against the violation of the act of Union on this subject. His countrymen insisted on their right of bringing in every article, the produce of Ireland, to the English market, there to be saleable, without its undergoing any process whatever in this country. The raw spirit of England was deleterious; but the raw spirit of Ireland
 450
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  commenced by complimenting the hon. and gallant member upon the temper and benevolent feeling with which he had introduced his motion. No man who knew any thing of the state of Ireland could conceal from himself the lamentable fact, that notwithstanding her soil, her climate, and the other favourable circumstances in which she was placed, she was far removed from that state of content and happiness to which she was entitled. It was impossible for any English member to listen to a statement which had in view the benefit of Ireland, without the utmost anxiety to promote that object. If, therefore, he rightly understood the proposition of the hon. gentleman, he could not without regret express an opinion, that it would not be advisable to adopt the course recommended—at least not in the mode now submitted. It was perfectly true, that parliament, on many occasions, had called upon the public to advance money for the relief of local distress, arising from peculiar circumstances. Within a very short period that principle had been acted upon, to a considerable extent, in Ireland. Two sums had been voted by the House, one of which was vested in the discretion of the lord-lieutenant, for the relief of distress, without any intention of ultimate repayment; the other had been advanced with the view that, at a specified period, it should be restored to the public. As to the first species of grant, the House would feel, that however desirable it might be under peculiar pressure, to make this
 472 473 l 474
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that as he had been accidentally absent from the House during the conclusion of the speech of his right hon. friend, and the commencement of the speech of the hon. gentleman (the member for Limerick), he was not able, of his own knowledge, to state whether his right hon. friend had made the assertion imputed to him; but from all he knew of his right hon. friend's opinions, he was astonished at the description, by the hon. gentleman, of what had fallen, from him, and he had been gratified at hearing it explained in the manner in which he had taken for granted it had been uttered. The hon. gentleman had argued the question, as if the issue were, whether on any occasion, except under the pressure of absolute want, any pecuniary assistance should be afforded by parliament to the people of Ireland. But this was not the question. The question was, whether, on this occasion, the assistance should be afforded, and in the particular manner proposed by the hon. mover. Favourably as every proposition professing to have the relief of Ireland for its object was received, the proposition which had been submitted to them by the hon. gentleman was, both by the temper and the manner of his address—both by its conception and its execution—calculated to meet with more than ordinary favour. He was sure, however, that the same temper and good sense which the hon. gentleman had shewn, and which in a long career in parliament, would render, he hoped, his services most valuable to his country, would induce him to admit, that it was very possible to differ as to the application of a principle without dissenting from the principle itself. The hon. gentleman had stated most fairly, that unless he could shew that a peculiar crisis existed, and that the pecuniary assistance was calculated to afford the
 484 l l 485 486
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, that he did not desire the improvement of his native country at the direct expense of any other portion of the empire; but he did put in a claim for justice and good faith towards Ireland. He was glad to see that English gentlemen were directing their attention to the state of Ireland, and he felt grateful for their exertions. He had been for twenty years vainly endeavouring to rouse the attention of government and the parliament to the consideration of the condition of his native country, and contending for that admission which was at length so freely given; namely, that the improvement of Ireland must conduce to the general welfare of the empire, and that her tranquillity would add to its stability. As long as persons and property were insecure in Ireland, so long would the peace and prosperity of Great Britain be marred and compromised. He bestowed his warmest commendations upon the hon. mover of this question, and asked its opponents, if they could deny that the employment of the peasantry was an indis-
 492
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought, that but a very small part of the right hon. baronet's speech had any bearing on the question before the House. All he should feel it necessary to observe on the present occasion—which he considered by no means the best that the right hon. baronet might have selected for that speech-was, that he fully coincided in the objections which his hon. friends had taken to the motion. The right hon. baronet had said, that one of the great obstacles to the importation of capital into Ireland, was, the present condition of the administration of justice in that country. He had particularly alluded to those officers who were engaged in the recovery of debts, and had asked, why no remedy was applied to the known deficiencies of
 495
 Mr. Kennedy , after apologising for the possible irregularity of his motion at this stage of the business of the session, moved the bringing up of the report on the Scotch Juries Bill.
 The Lord-Advocate  said, he was not averse to the motion, but felt disposed, in fairness to his hon. friend, to point out those parts of his bill, to which he should at a future stage of it take some objections. No specific evil had been done, which this bill could remedy. It exposed the jurors to very unequal labour; and if it happened that a juror was taken from a wrong parish, which might be the case in places like Glasgow, where there were twelve parishes, and the boundary of each was not exactly defined, the whole panel was set aside. He objected also to the complexity of the Bill.
 Lord Binning  said, he was ready to wave the selection of the jury by the judges; but he was not bound, on that
 497
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, his only wish was, that if a change was to take place, it should be effected in the best manner. He felt the force of some of the objections to the bill, and would suggest the propriety of re-committing it, with a view to further consideration.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, it was a thankless, hopeless, irksome task, to argue on the details of this measure, after what had occurred; but he must bear his testimony to the fairness with which it had been uniformly met by the right hon. secretary of state. He bad no objection to the re-commitment of the bill, on the understanding that the learned lord, and those who thought with him, would be prepared on an early day to meet the discussion.
 The Lord Advocate  said, it was not his duty, but the duty of the hon. gentleman who had introduced the measure, to propose the amendments. He had thought the measure impracticable, and he thought so still; but any thing like hostility towards the hon. gentleman, was contrary to his intentions and feelings.
 Lord A. Hamilton  presented a petition from Lanark, praying that Scotch Spirits might be imported into England on the same footing as Irish Spirits. The noble lord observed, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had last year held out an expectation, that he would, in the course of the present session, introduce a measure for the purpose of remedying the injustice of the present law. He was very
 449
 Colonel Trench  said, he believed that the gentleman who had been so frequently alluded to that evening, was not an Irishman, but an English gentleman superintending an estate almost ruined by English attornies. If his example were followed by the male part of the Irish gentry, and if the example of his wife were imitated by the resident Irish ladies, the greatest blessings would arise to that country, and Ireland would soon be in a very different situation. It had been said, that a crisis would arrive. It should have been said, that the crisis had arrived, and that in every case where sympathy and kindness had been shewn towards the peasantry, the general situation of the parties had been materially improved. The Irish people had warm hearts and generous dispositions, and even the outrages of which some of them had been guilty, arose less from want of feeling, than from an overflow of warm feeling, goaded on to despair by distress and famine. The conduct of the resident gentry towards the lower class of the people had been productive of most mischievous effects. The people of Ireland enjoyed in no respect the same advantages as the people of England. The bank of Ireland would not lend out its capital in the same manner, nor at the same interest, as the bank of England. The distress of the Irish resident gentry was so great as to exceed belief. They were, in many instances, only the agents, and sometimes the ill-paid agents, of their own creditors. They were not able to adopt those improvements which were suggested for the employment of their tenantry, and for their own individual interest. On that ground only they wished for an advance of capital; but he much doubted, if it was, granted, whether they would be materially benefited by it, as they were not like the Dutch or Scotch; for though they were warm-hearted and generous, they wanted
 488
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  said, he was sorry to hear of the distressed situation of the Irish peasantry, which he hoped would meet with serious attention from the government. He could not but be struck with the singular and melancholy fact, that while loans could be had in England for people in the remotest corners in the world, not a shilling could be raised for Ireland.
 Mr. Goulburn  denied that he had ever stated that the government should not interfere, except when the people were threatened with starvation. He had said that, considering that public works were at present going on in Ireland at the expense of the public, and which it was necessary
 483
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that the hon. member for Midhurst had remarked, that his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, had not been as eloquent on this occasion as on others; and he had attributed it to the mode of argument he had
 478 l 479
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that when he first entered the House, he had no intention whatever of uttering his sentiments on this subject, but from what had occurred, he felt bound to state some reasons for the vote which he should give that night. He was sorry to say, that he could not vote for the measure of his hon. friend, as it was now framed. It had been brought forward with great ability, and urged on the attention of the House, with such arguments, and in such a manner, as did infinite honour to the talents and temper of the gallant mover. It was with no inconsiderable pain that he should vote against this measure, because he was of opinion, that every proposition, that tended to relieve the distresses under which Ireland now laboured, deserved the most favourable attention. He was fully convinced, that Ireland owed less to the liberal policy of ministers than any other country in Europe. The present proposition came before the House under very peculiar circumstances. There was at this moment, a redundancy of capital in the English market—so great, indeed, that it could not be fully employed; and yet, though England was joined with a country containing an active population of six millions, who were greatly in want of capital, none of that redundant capital found its way into that country. Upon this statement it was asked of the government to do that which no individuals would do. If the House looked to what was, or at least ought to be, the best criterion of the value of property—land, what would they observe? Why, that though the price of land in Ireland was one-third less than in England, yet none of the English capital went there to purchase. What could be the cause of this? Did it not prove that in the state of things there was something so dreadful, as to offer no hope, no interest, no advantage to the speculating capitalist? To all other parts of the world did English capital go-—but not to Ireland. This fact seemed to him to place the subject in such a point of view, as called for the most serious consideration both of the ministers and the legislature. It was a state which could be the result of nothing but a series of acts of misgovernment. It proved, that both
 489 490
 Mr. Abercromby  complained of the manner in which his hon. and learned friend, as well as the people of Scotland, had been treated by the lord advocate. He was surprised that a man holding the situation of public prosecutor, should have allowed this bill to have gone thus far without having stated his objections to it. It was not dealing handsomely with the House to bring forward his objections in this indirect manner.
 Mr. Monck  observed, that the evils of Ireland arose from an excessive and redundant population, and from a want of the means to afford employment to the people. Of these the former was the greater, and he thought that, in some measure, it might be mitigated, by giving the people different habits of living.—At present, they lived, or rather existed, on the very lowest means; and when those failed, through an accidental bad season, they could have recourse to no other. Another evil produced by these low means of subsistence was, the prevalence of early and inconsiderate marriages; by which poverty and wretchedness were introduced into a family, and by which a man made himself and his children the slaves of the landlord. In this respect, the greatest difference was observable between Ireland and Scotland. The superficial extent of the two countries was the same, and yet in
 491
 Mr. John Smith  said, he had never heard the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer so weak in his arguments, or so little eloquent in his mode of urging them, as on the present occasion. This he attributed to the difficulties in which the right hon. gentleman must have found himself placed in his opposition to the proposed measure. He was willing to give the right hon. gentleman credit for the goodness of his intentions and the liberality of his views towards Ireland, but, on the present occasion, he thought that his views were quite mistaken. The main objection which he had urged to the proposition of his hon. friend was, that it would encourage the people of Ireland to look up to government, and not to trust to their own resources. But let the House see what had been the effect of similar advances in this country. He was himself, at the present moment, a commissioner under an act of parliament for granting advances of money for the building of bridges, the making of roads, and other public works. The money was lent on good security, and sums to a considerable amount had been so granted. He had, on a former occasion, been a commissioner under a similar act of parliament; but he would ask, had it ever been heard that such advances had produced in the people of this country a disposition to depend on government rather than on their own resources? Why not, then, advance money to Ireland in a similar manner? Ireland deserved much from this country; and she had received but little. It was true we had materially assisted her in a time of scarcity, for which she was truly grateful; but we were bound to do more. If public money had been advanced with good effect in England to carry on several works, why might not the same result be expected from similar advances in Ireland? He had seen the good effect of such advances in many parts of this country. He knew many individuals who were gentlemen of fortune now, who were not gentlemen of fortune before such advances were made. He could not see, therefore, any weight in the objection of the right hon. gentleman to the present proposition. He had had an opportunity of knowing the good effects which had been produced by the loans advanced by the London Association for the advance of money by way of loan for the encouragement of agricul-
 477 l l
 Mr. John Smith  said, he rose to present a petition that referred to a subject of the highest importance, and which called for the prompt and decided interposition of his majesty's ministers, or, if they declined to interfere, the immediate attention of the legislature. The petitioners complained, with great justice, of the numerous and aggravated mischiefs which were the natural effect of certain political societies existing in Ireland, known under the designation of Orange and Ribbon Lodges—societies held together by secret objects, founded on religious differences, and whose existence never ceased to interfere with the public tranquillity. The petitioners alleged, that in the fury of such conflicting associations, and in the state of outrage that followed their introduction, it was impossible, even for men most inclined to be peacable and obedient to act upon their wishes. Where the law was without power, it was impossible even for moderate men to remain neutral. The petitioners stated, that though the late law interfered with the secret oaths, yet it was notorious that the Orange Lodges had become more numerous, and had assumed somewhat of a legal character. They alleged that whenever and. wherever an Orange society was introduced, a Ribbon society was immediately formed. He regretted that he did not see in his place the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs, because he well recollected the strong opinion that right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) had given as to the character of these societies, when a motion was submitted from the Opposition side of the House, by the president of the Board of Control (Mr. Wynn). With that eloquence for which the right hon. Secretary was so distinguished, he had scouted with indignation the idea that, under any conjuncture of circumstances, such societies could be
 447
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, there were several
 480 481 l s s l l l l 482
 Mr. S. Rice  expressed his regret, if he had in any way misrepresented the right hon. secretary. He acknowledged that the right hon. secretary had shown meritorious zeal in the promotion of the employment of the poor; but he had conceived that his speech went not only to object to the motion of his hon. friend, but to impugn the principle of the right hon. secretary's own praise-worthy exertions.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, he should support the measure, because he thought the contemplated change would be productive of good.
 Captain Maberly  rose to reply. He said, that all parties seemed agreed as to the nature of the evils which agitated Ireland; the only difference appeared to be, as to the remedy which it might be proper to apply to them. He fully admitted the force of many of the objections that had been urged to his motion; but he thought that the advantages which would arise from encouraging manufactures in Ireland, from establishing habits of industry and civilization, and from providing permanent employment for the poor population of that country (for such relief could only be furnished by permanent, and not by temporary employment)—these advantages, he considered, would more than counterbalance any such objections. He had no doubt, from what had occurred in Scotland in 1817, where an advance of capital had enabled individuals to establish a new branch of the herring fishery, and beat the Dutch out of the market of Hamburgh, that if capital were advanced to Ireland, fisheries would be established in that country also. He was sorry the gentlemen opposite did not see the measure in the same light in which he did; but he should feel it his duty to divide the House on the question.
 Mr. Maberly , in reply to the objection just urged by the right hon. secretary, said, that there had been repeated instances in which loans had been made by the government to individuals, with acknowledged advantages to the country; yet these individuals had been placed in that very position with respect to the Crown, which the right hon. secretary now contended was a sufficient objection to the plan of his hon. relative. The right hon. secretary had rested his objections on the supposition, that the plan was to lend money on landed security. Not so. It was a plan to advance money for specific purposes. His honourable relative had adverted to districts of Ireland, where the people were even now in a state of starvation—where rebellions had broken out—and where, if the people were not employed, rebellion would break out again. He had himself received letters from that country, which described the extreme misery in which the people existed. They could hardly be said to subsist. They were often unable to get the 5 s s s d 487
 Captain Maberly  complained, that the right hon. gentleman had completely misunderstood him. He meant that money should be advanced to any manufacturer or other person engaged in trade, who could give the necessary security. He also wished the fisheries to be aided, precisely in the same way that sums were applied in England and Scotland, in the years 1817 and 1822.
 Captain W. L. Maberly  said:—Sir, in rising to move that the House should take into its consideration the propriety of addressing his majesty for an Advance of Capital to Ireland, I am sensible I am open to the charge of no small degree of presumption. It is not that I have been unaware of the importance of the subject, or have underrated its difficulties, that I have been induced to undertake a task, so arduous in its nature, so complicated in its details, I have approached it with far different feelings, and if I have been rash enough to embark in it at all, it has been solely from the consideration, that in the full conviction I entertained of the benefits that would result from it to Ireland, and in the absence of other members more competent to engage in it than myself, it became an imperative duty in me to press it upon the attention of the House. In discharging this duty, I am anxious to disclaim all motives of political hostility to the right hon. gentlemen opposite; I am actuated solely by a spirit of conciliation and a desire for the improvement of Ireland, and it will be my care, therefore, in going through the detail, into which it will he necessary for me to enter, cautiously to abstain from every topic that might arraign the Administration of that country, and that might wear the appearance of a wish to promote irritation or to impute misconduct. 451 452 453 454 455 456 457 458 459 460 461 462 l 463 464 l l l l s 465 466 467 l l 468 469 470 471
 Sir G. Clerk  thought, that notwithstanding all the pains that had been taken with this bill, it was still in such a crude and imperfect state, that instead of being a benefit, it would throw the whole criminal law of Scotland into confusion.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, he was disposed to meet the question in the same spirit as the right hon. gentleman; but it was incumbent on the learned lord, not only to state his objections, but, as he agreed to the principle of the bill, to specify the substitute he would propose for the present system.
 Sir J. Newport , in explanation, remarked, that that commission was appointed to inquire into the fees and duties of the office of sheriff in Ireland, and could not, therefore, report any thing satisfactory upon the subject of his complaint as to the sub-sheriffs, under the present system; for he complained of the non-execution of their duty, and insisted upon the necessity of enforcing a proper discharge of that duty.
 Sir John Newport  said, he entirely agreed with his hon. friend that tranquillity must be restored, before capital
 493 494
 Sir J. Newport  said, he participated in the satisfaction expressed by his hon. friend, at seeing the description of persons whose names were attached to the petition, approaching the House with their complaints and their prayers. Most truly did their petition describe the outrages to which the existence of these societies led. Again and again it had been his unsuccessful province to warn that House of the disastrous consequences which could not fail to follow the existence of these associations. It was impossible that one of these associations could be tolerated, without immediately producing, in the neighbourhood, a
 448
 Lord Althorp  agreed, that the want of capital in Ireland was one of the principal causes, though not perhaps the sole cause, of the present condition of Ireland. Every measure, therefore, which encouraged the influx of money, ought to be readily adopted. The general rule certainly was, that capital should not be forced out of the channel in which it would naturally flow; but, in this instance, it was to be remembered that capital had been unnaturally forced out of Ireland, and that some measures ought to be adopted to restore it. It was singular to see that while capital went to Mexico and Peru, and to every quartet of the world, it tur-
 475 476
 Lord Lowther  said, that the bill alluded to by the hon. member had already pass-ed the House of Commons, and was gone up to the other House for its sanction. He was most happy that an inquiry had been instituted, for nothing could be more enormous than the trusts of turnpikes in the neighbourhood of London. They amounted to 150,000 l
 Sir T. Lethbridge  rose to present a petition from two very respectable magistrates, sir J. C. Hippisley, who dicharged the duties of a justice of the peace in the county of Somerset; and Mr. Briscoe,
 510
 Mr. Denison  said, the labour of the tread-wheel had been received with approbation in four or five-and-twenty different counties. If it were not unanimously approved of by the magistrates, certain he was, that a great proportion of them were favourable to it; and, so far as it had gone, he believed it was the best mode of punishment that could be adopted. It kept the prisoner to hard labour, as the law authorised and directed, without breaking his spirit, or injuring his health. One of the petitioners, Mr. Briscoe, had certainly come before the magistrates at the last quarter sessions for Surry, and laid before them certain charges, which, in his opinion, and that
 511
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, the great object of the House should be, to prevent an abuse of the discretionary power which the existing act placed in the hand of magistrates. Now, they must be all aware that that power had been very much abused in one or two instances. He would not enter into the merits of the case alluded to by his hon. friend, but he could not help thinking, that magistrates, when intrusted with so arbitrary a power, ought to keep a very strict guard over their conduct. It was always an object in punishment to avoid degrading the culprit in his own eyes and those of others as far as possible; but certainly, no man could ever look upon himself as a man was entitled to do, after being made to run round like a dog in a wheel, for the amusement of those who might choose to stand and gaze at him. The tread-wheel might be a very fit and proper punishment to be inflicted for some offences, which now subjected those who committed them to transportation or to death; but, as applied at present, it seemed to him, to be in the last degree mischievous, cruel, and absurd.
 Colonel Davies  rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill, to alter the present state of the Militia establishment in Ireland. The expense of the Irish Militia staff, taken with reference to its extent, was rather more than a third greater in Ireland than in great Britain; and, unless a sufficient cause for that
 525 l
 Mr. Hutchinson  acknowledged that the staff of the Irish Militia had, on many occasions, been eminently serviceable. He supported his hen. friend's motion, however, on the ground that he could not see why the Irish staff should be a third more numerous in proportion than that of England.
 Mr. Goulburn  justified the reductions which had been made in the Irish Militia, and expressed his surprise at the readiness of the hon. member for Aberdeen to place that constitutional force at the direction of the Commander-in-Chief, rather than the civil power. He eulogized the promptitude with which the militia staff had always stepped forth to the support of government in times of trouble and difficulty.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the main points in his gallant friend's speech had not been touched upon by the right hon. baronet. The charge for lodging, when barracks were standing empty, had not been justified or answered. He was far from agreeing, that the reduction had already been carried too far. On the contrary, he thought that the colonels who had resisted that reduction ought to have been brought to a court martial, and dismissed the service. He was distinctly of opinion, that the letters written upon that occasion would have justified such a course; and he could scarcely wonder at some recent instances of disobedience by officers, seeing that that course had not been adopted. The distress to which men might be reduced who were discharged from the militia, he regretted: although it should be remembered, that the noncommissioned officers, after twenty years' service, had a provision; but the plea of individual distress, however strong, he could not allow to operate; because the same objection might have been applied to a reduction of the army altogether.
 Mr. Hume  said, a bill had been passed, the preamble of which contained a gross falsehood. He wished to know from the Speaker, whether there was any precedent to direct them in a case like the present; or whether that House could adopt any measure on discovering that they had passed a bill containing a positive falsehood, while that bill was pending in the House of Lords?
 Mr. Hume  said, that some means ought to be taken to guard themselves against such an occurrence in future.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had a petition to present of considerable importance. It related to the question of tithes, and was in every respect deserving the serious
 502
 Mr. Hume  said, he had a petition to present from a gentleman who was very generally known—Mr. William Cobbett. It was probably known that this gentleman had for some time turned his attention to the abuses of the toll-gates. He was happy the subject
 498 l l l., 499 l l l l l
 The Speaker  said, that the bill was now entirely beyond the control of that House.
 Sir G. Hill  expressed his surprised, if such a motion ought at all to be made, that the hon. and gallant member had delayed it until after the annual provisions had been agreed to by the House. With respect to the proposition of the hon. and gallant officer as to the Quarter-masters, that arrangement had been already made. As to the charges under the head of fuel, lodging, &c. that might constitute a fair ground of discussion in the next session. The staff of the Irish militia during the late war, had been eminently serviceable. By their exertions many thousands had been induced to enter into the general military service of the country. It was hard that many of these meritorious individuals, who had been thus beneficially employed for the public, were turned adrift with their families on a pittance of five pence a-day. It had long been his opinion that they ought to be more adequately provided for. By the regiment which he had the honour to command, between three and four thousand men had been furnished for general service, in consequence of the exertions of the Staff. On the grounds which he had alleged, he should oppose the motion.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  said, that in this instance the suspension of the orders seemed to have been called for as a matter of course. There might be particular cases, in which such a step would be very proper, but this was not one of them.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, he did not know whether this bill was similar in its enactments to some others, all relating to Ireland, that he had seen. One of them, which he now held in his hand, contained some of the most extraordinary provisions
 530
 Sir J. Newport  said, that companies had been incorporated in various instances, and he saw no reason why the Mining company should be excepted. All he wished was, that the bill should be read a second time in the ordinary course, in the committee any objectionable clause might be struck out.
 Mr. Ellice  fully agreed in the general principles laid down by the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he was also disposed to concur in the general principle; but, at the same time, the House could not expect that people would embark their property in speculations, if they were liable for more than the sum they had subscribed.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  fully admitted the respectability of the names attached to the petition, but was at a loss to conceive how they could attach any consideration to the prayer of it, unless the House was prepared to say, that every man who might feel objections to taking an oath should be at liberty to refuse it. He did not wish to argue the question at present, but he could not conceive how any distinction could be taken in favour of the petitioners, which would not be equally applicable to any other parties choosing to decline an oath.
 Mr. Stanley  said, that, however painful he might find it, to be under the necessity of differing, in some measure, from many of those for whose public character he entertained the highest regard, he trusted this would be considered as some apology for his venturing, however inadequately, to state the grounds on which he founded his opposition to the present motion. Agreeing as he did, in many points, with the hon. member, he could not but consider the time and circumstances under which this motion was brought before the House, however well calculated to secure votes in its favour, as peculiarly unfortunate. The tendency, and indeed the avowed object, of the motion was, at one and the same time to lower the authority of the church establishment, and to alleviate the misfortunes of Ireland. The hon. member had endeavoured to secure in support of his motion, the prejudices of all those who had the interests of Ireland at heart. In a warm and zealous attachment to the interests and welfare of Ireland, he (Mr. S.) would yield to no man. It was but too well known that, within the last few years, attempts had been made by the press, and through the more dangerous channels of private insinuation, to cast odium on the established church. Her revenues had been commented upon with unjustifiable severity, and the private errors and vices
 560 561 562 s s s 563 l l l l l l l 564 l l l l l l l l l l l l 565 l l l l l l
 Mr. Robertson  thought there were but two modes by which it was possible to restore peace and tranquillity to Ireland; and that of either of them the basis must be the union of Roman Catholics and Protestants themselves. One of these modes would be, to admit the Roman Catholic clergy to a participation of tithes. The other (which he had not yet heard alluded to in that House, but which did not seem impracticable, if his majesty's ministers would only dare to attempt it) might be found in the union of the Protestant and the Roman Catholic churches of the kingdom. This might seem at first sight impossible to some honourable gentlemen; but those who were acquainted with the events that had taken place in Europe during the last six years, would know, that more difficult unions of religious sects had been, in that interval, effected upon the continent. Let the government take measures, therefore, to ascertain what the differences of doctrine were, as between the established church and the Roman Catholic church of Ireland. It would be found, that there were no essential differences of faith; and that, in the main, the creed of one was the creed of the other persuasion. Archbishop Tillotson had stated, that the Apostle's creed, as it was expounded by the four first councils, was the faith also of the churches of Rome and England. Now the variations of religious doctrine, as between the Lutherans and the Calvinists, were more grave and weighty, possibly, than any between Romanists and Protestants. The one sect was totally opposed to the other; and yet, in 1817, the government of Prussia, being highly sensible of the advantages which must accrue to the country from their union, sanctioned that measure; and it had been carried into effect with the best consequences, not only in that kingdom, but in Hesse Cassel, Bavaria, and over the greater part of Germany. Archbishop Tillotson had once corresponded with France, in order to bring about some arrangement of the kind between the Protestant and Catholic churches; and the bishop of Durham had expressed an opinion as to the practicability of the scheme. He had stated, in an address to his clergy, that though it might be described by many as a hopeless project, it appeared to him, that there was more opportunity at present than at any former period. Would it not, then, he asked, be an undertaking well worthy
 569
 Mr. Plunkett , in continuation, said, that he feared he should hardly get credit with the House when he said, that if they struck off the 500 from that number, the remaining 31 would be a considerable exaggeration. He did not mean to accuse the hon. member of intentional mis-statement; for indeed he went painfully and elaborately to work, but on inaccurate grounds. Where there was a union of two parishes, he called the clergyman who had the union a pluralist, and an absentee if he did not reside on both the livings [a laugh]. What he was now about to state had been communicated to him by a person high in rank and talents, and more likely to obtain accurate information on all matters connected with the church than the hon. gentleman. That distinguished person had assured him, and he was incapable of making the assertion if it was not correct, that out of the whole number of the clergy, there were not twenty who did not reside on their parishes in Ireland. If the hon. gentleman still persisted in his oddity of 531, he (Mr. P.) could say, of his own knowledge, that, so far as he had witnessed the conduct of the clergy of the established church in Ireland, no men could be more assiduous in the performance of their moral and religious duties. It was true, that among them, as among all great bodies, there were some exceptions to be found; some, who, instead of attending to the performance of their duties, absented themselves from their parishes, and came to watering places in this country, where they were only anxious to cut a figure as bucks and swaggerers. But, generally speaking, the conduct of the established clergy of Ireland was unimpeachable, and their excellence appeared in a stronger light, from the contrast of such exceptions.—Another observation of the hon. member for Aberdeen was, that they had misconducted themselves in the misapplication of first-fruits; and, in his arguments upon that subject, he had charged the law officers of the Crown with countenancing this abuse, and had alluded to an opinion of his (Mr. P.'s) own, which he had represented as calculated to mislead them. The House would not expect that at that distance of time he could call to mind all the particulars on which his opinion was founded; but he would briefly state the nature of
 574
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:— 575 576 577 578 579 l 580 l l l 581
 Mr. Plunkett  said, it was not his intention to have made any observations on the motion before the House, but having been so directly alluded to by the hon. mover, he was anxious to prevent the House from remaining under the delusion which the speech of the hon. gentleman was likely to create, if permitted to go uncontradicted. He thought he should not discharge his duty to the House and to himself, without, in the first place, making a few observations on the general subject in respect of which those opinions had been offered. And he should do so, rather for the sake of rescuing a cause to which he had always been conscientiously attached, but to which much allusion had been unnecessarily introduced into the discussion of this evening, and supported, he would say, by arguments of such a nature that they were calculated to do it the greatest harm, in the mind of every honest and well-judging person in the
 570 571 572
 Lord J. Russell  thought the relief might be given to the petitioners on their assuming a certain designation; but, for his own part, he should prefer a general measure, which would relieve every man who had a conscientious scruple against taking oaths. He wished, however, to ascertain how the law operated in the United States, before he originated any such measure.
 Lord John Russell  rose to present a petition from a religious class of persons of Clara and other places in Ireland, denominated Separatists, who felt themselves forbidden by conscientious scruples to take oaths. They prayed, therefore, that the indulgence granted by the legislature to Quakers, should be extended to them; and that their affirmation, without swearing, might be deemed sufficient. From what he understood, the petitioners were highly respectable and moral persons; and he considered it the duty of the legislature to respect scruples founded on conscientious motives.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, that as long as the revenues of the established church in Ireland were to be continued in their
 567 l l l
 Mr. Ellice  agreed as to the propriety of some new regulation, but could not see why this particular case should now be opposed.
 Mr. Dawson  concurred in the opinion, that great exaggeration prevailed respecting tin's species of property. The confusion which prevailed in the House prevented us from distinctly hearing the details into which the hon. gentleman entered, in order to show the comparative numbers of resident and non-resident clergy at different periods. In the year 1819, there were 901 incumbents actually resident on their benefices, or in the next adjoining parishes. The hon. member for Aberdeen had estimated them at 763 only; but the returns from which he was now quoting, he had caused to be prepared with the utmost care, and might be confidently relied on. If those returns were carefully examined, they would be found to establish in the most convincing manner this great truth—that wherever the Protestant church was most strongly established in Ireland, there the greatest prosperity, and quiet, and good order prevailed. Where there were the greatest number of glebe houses, there the greatest share of public industry, of commerce, and of happiness was enjoyed. The order of the provinces in these respects might be thus stated—Ulster, Leinster, Connaught, and Munster. Munster was the province in which, unhappily, the established religion was most neglected, or least followed. He begged, however, to bear testimony to the meritorious character of the Protestant clergy throughout Ireland. They were zealous in the discharge of their duties, indiscriminate in their charities, which extended to the professors of either faith, and in their own persons and morals afforded the best examples of conduct to their parishioners. As pastors, they were attentive to the spiritual welfare of their flocks; as landlords (and he said it confidently, notwithstanding all the clamour which had been raised against them), they were indulgent and moderate with their tenants. He would refer the most sceptical on these matters to the present state of the north of Ireland, in order to show, that what he said was the fact; and that in no part of the empire was the service of the Protestant church better performed. To his mind, no case had been made out for the necessity of changing the present establishment of that church, and he should therefore oppose the motion,
 Mr. Sumner  said, that next session he would propose a resolution, compelling those who applied to have the stand-
 529
 Mr. Bright  said, he was anxious to take that opportunity of expressing the strong sense he felt of the impropriety of violating the Standing Orders of the House. The session was drawing to a close, and yet, night after night, petitions were presented for private bills. Nothing could, in his opinion, be more improper than such a course of proceeding, and it was incumbent on the House to put a stop to it. If the practice were persevered in, he should not be surprised if, in a short time, even the ceremony of previously presenting a petition would be dispensed with. Notwithstanding the indifference with which their standing orders were suspended at present, they were watched by our ancestors with the utmost vigilance. He found in Mr. Justice Black-stone an authority in support of this opinion, and at the period of the Restoration, the same constitutional jealousy was observed. Lord Clarendon had strongly reprobated the practice, and pointed out the inconveniences which arose from it. These orders should never be dispensed with, except in cases of urgent necessity. He had intended to propose a resolution on the subject, and perhaps he should still do so.
 Mr. Bright  said, he would read the resolution which he had intended to propose. It was to this effect:—"That a more strict attention to the Standing Orders of the House with respect to private bills is essentially necessary to the security of the rights and properties of the subject, and that the House will not dispense with them except in cases of accidental occasion, or real necessity."
 General Gascoyne  said, that if it was done in this instance, he could see no reason why a similar application should be resisted on any future occasion.
 Sir James Graham  urged the impropriety of violating the standing orders.
 Mr. Grattan  thought that great advantage was likely to arise out of the motion, and under that impression he would give it his support. He well remembered that in the years 1808 and 1809, when the question of Irish grievances was fully debated, and his lamented father had taken a conspicuous part in the discussions, the general impression was, that the tithe system was the great evil of Ireland. Being satisfied in his own mind of the truth of that opinion, he should vote for the motion of the hon. gentleman, which was not brought forward in a feeling of hostility to the church, nor calculated to interfere with its interests; but, on the contrary, to promote them by leading to the correction of those abuses under which it suffered.
 Mr. Leslie Foster  said, the question appeared to be, how much or how little of the property of the church of Ireland was now to be confiscated? To accede to the present motion would be, to a great proportion of the people of Ireland, a positive infliction of evil, and to the remainder of it no benefit whatever. Indeed, he could not give his assent to the proposed inquiry, as he considered it to be demanded upon assumptions that were notoriously unfounded. The first assumption of the hon. member for Aberdeen was the total insignificance of the Protestant population of Ireland when compared with the Roman Catholic. The hon. member had said, that the number of Protestants did not exceed five hundred thousand. Now, the House was in possession of data which enabled it to judge of the correctness of that assertion. The population of Ireland consisted of six millions and three quarters of which two millions belonged to the province of Ulster. Now, every gentleman who was acquainted with the counties of Antrim, Down, and Armagh, would acknowledge, that in those counties the inhabitants were nearly all of them Protestants, or at least that the Protestant part of them was far more numerous than the Catholic. The same was the case in Londonderry. In Donnegal the Protestants were full as numerous as the Catholics. In Cavan they were rather, and in Tyrone they were much, less numerous. Indeed, he would be fully justified in stating, that five-eighths of the population of Ulster were Protestants—a calculation which would give 1,250,000 Protestants for Ulster alone. Though in the country parts of Leinster, as distinguished from the towns, the Catholics were much more numerous than the Protestants, still upon the whole, the Protestants were in proportion to the Catholics as one to five; in Minister, they were as one to twelve; and in Connaught, as one to twenty-four. This calculation would give about 300,000 Protestants to Leinster, 200,000 to Munster, and 40,000 to Connaught; and would make the total amount of Protestants in all the provinces of Ireland about 1,800,000. This calculation shewed, that the Protestants in Ireland were to the Catholics, not in the numerical proportion of one to fourteen, as the hon. member for Aberdeen had stated, but in the numerical proportion of one to four. If then one-fourth of the population of Ireland were
 583 l l l l l l l l 584
 Mr. J. Williams  observed, that his hon. friend the member for Aberdeen, was quite correct when he stated that there was but a solitary instance of prosecution for the violation of the Quakers' affirmation in the course of 150 years. There was a flagrant inconsistency in the law as it stood, in relation to that very respectable class of British subjects. Their affirmation was valid in civil cases, but it was not admissible in criminal prosecutions. Such an inconsistency ought not to remain, and it was his intention, next session, to introduce a bill to remedy such a glaring defect.
 Mr. Hume  rose for the purpose of submitting to the House the motion of which he had given notice, with regard to the expediency of inquiring whether the present Church Establishment of Ireland be not more than commensurate to the services to be performed, both as regards the number of persons employed, and the incomes they receive. The hon. member observed, that he was well aware that it was a subject respecting which many honourable gentlemen would be much more likely than himself to make an impression on the House. The opinions which he entertained respecting it were well known, and he was well aware that the extensive change which he thought desirable was not conformable to the opinion of the House and the country. He should have been glad, therefore, if any man of more moderate views than himself had undertaken to bring the question before parliament: but, finding that those who were the most competent were not the most willing to undertake the task, he had determined however reluctantly, once more to submit the subject to the consideration of the House. In doing so, he feared he should be compelled to draw largely on the patience of the House, but he assured them, that he would not detain them a single moment longer than was absolutely necessary, in order to place the real nature and situation of the church establishment of Ireland fully before them. He was perfectly persuaded that, up to the present moment, the church establishment of that country had had a more
 533 534 535 536 537 538 539 540 541 542 543 l l l 544 l l 545 546 547 548 l l l l l l l l 549 l l 550 l l 551 l l l 552 l 553 554 l l l l l l l l l l 555 l l l l 556 557 558 559
 Mr. Hume  rose to reply. He contended, that the hon. member who spoke second, and who had accused him of making erroneous statements to the House upon the faith of anonymous publications, had himself made more erroneous statements to the House than he had ever contrived to put together. The hon. member had made a very long and a very able speech, which many members might suppose was an answer to the speech which he (Mr. H.) had previously delivered; but, it was no such thing. The hon. member had answered a speech which he had never made, and had refuted statements in a pamphlet which he (Mr. H.) had never seen. In the course of the debate he had been frequently accused of exaggeration; but he found that not more than three of his statements had been seriously contradicted, The first contradiction which he had received was
 585 586 587 588
 Mr. Hume  supported the prayer of the petition. A century and a half had now elapsed since the simple affirmation of the Quakers had been received in courts of justice; yet, in the whole of that period, there had been but one instance of a prosecution for a violation of the truth; as such violation was subject to a prosecution for perjury, the fact was a proof that such affirmation was as binding as an oath. Why should we not follow the example of the United States, and respect in our enactments the conscientious scruples of all denominations.
 Mr. Hume , across the table, said there were 531.
 Mr. Spring Rice  referred to the relief given, on similar grounds, to the Quakers, and to certain seceders in the province of Ulster. Besides the inconvenience to the petitioners themselves, the rights of third parties were deeply affected thereby; as the members of this congregation could not take out probate, letters of administration, or any of those civil acts which required the administration of an oath. On what principle could the legislature, which respected, in its courts of law, the
 532
 Mr. Huskisson  wished the hon. member to withdraw his petition. He decidedly thought that the standing orders should be obeyed. Cases might arise in which strict enforcement of them might be exceedingly injudicious; for instance, in the case of a bridge being swept away, and there being an immediate necessity to build a new one. But this was far from being one of those urgent cases. A feeling seemed to prevail at present, that any scheme, however visionary, would receive encouragement; but the House should not lend its assistance, towards advancing the fanciful projects of any corporation, or any individuals.
 Sir J. Newport  spoke from knowledge of the meritorious character of the petitioners, and of the hardships to which, from the law they were exposed. There were instances of some of the most respectable clerks of the Bank being actually driven, after years of service, from the situations they held, because they refused, on conscientious grounds, to take the official oaths.
 Alderman Wood  said, if it was suffered to pass into a law, it would be productive
 589
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was not his intention to trouble the committee at any length in prefacing the motion he was about to make for the last grants to be called for this session. It was, however, the usual practice at such a period to enter into a kind of recapitulation of the state of our expenditure as provided for in the committee of supply, and also to explain to parliament the nature of any increase, and the manner in which such increase was to be provided for. The House bad already voted for the service of the year sums to the amount of 18,275,270 l l l l l l l l l 590 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 591 l l l l l l l l l 592 l l l l l 593 l l l l., l l l 594 l 595 d l l l
 Mr. Robertson  trusted that the chancellor of the Exchequer would not be deterred from pursuing the simple and straight forward measure of a sinking fund; the consequences of which, he was satisfied, would be highly beneficial to the community.
 Mr. Whitmore  expressed his regret, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had been induced to abandon his first resolution regarding the duty upon the export of wool and his hope that he would revert to the duty of one penny per pound, instead of persevering in laying on two-pence in
 601 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, his first object in moving the resolution with which he should conclude, would be to assimilate the law of Savings Banks in England and Ireland. His next object
 602 l l l l l 603 l l
 Mr. Hume  said, he agreed in most of what had been said by the hon. baronet. The public would soon find, that the commercial or fiscal regulations would produce great advantage; that the outcry raised against it in the first instance was unfounded; and that the most sanguine anticipations would be realized. Convinc-
 598 l 599 l 600
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, he approved of the financial arrangements of the chancellor of the Exchequer. He thought he had acted with great advantage to the public in making use of his means of reducing taxation, in reforming our fiscal and commercial regulations in preference
 596 d l 597 l l
 Mr. Plunkett  expressed his entire concurrence in the opinions of the hon. members The church of Ireland ought to be vindicated from any participation in a measure of this kind. He was glad to have that opportunity of rendering justice to the bishop of Derry. It was but justice to
 608
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was quite clear that since the erection of the cathedral there must have been some specific fund set apart for its repair, because it was impossible that it could have remained from that period up to the present, without receiving repairs. What, then, had become of that fund? Why should parliament be called on to furnish the means of repairing the cathedral, when it was clearly the duty of the bishop or the dean and chapter to do so? He defied the right hon. bart. to point out any instance in which parliament had been requested to tax the people at large for the sustentation of a church. The bishop had formerly built the spire. Now, it was clear, from this fact, that there was some regulation which bound him to do so; and the same regulation, he presumed, would apply to the repairs of the cathedral generally. He could not suppose that the building of the spire was a mere voluntary act. He could not suffer the  onus 605
 Alderman Wood  observed, that the Irish Society felt considerable objections to this measure. That society had been reproached for not advancing funds for the repairs of the cathedral, but they had no right to appropriate their funds to that purpose. A series of resolutions had been agreed to by the corporation of Derry, which reflected on the corporation of London and the Irish society. Those resolutions charged the corporation with holding estates, in perpetuity, to the amount of 8,000 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. S. Bourne  could not agree to es-
 606
 Mr. Grenfell  said, it was suggested, that the establishment of this company would tend to make the condition of negro-slavery in the West Indies worse than at present. If it should turn out, on examination of the subject at any future time, that he could be brought to that opinion, he would instantly withdraw his name from it. But as he thought there was a good opportunity for employing a portion of that capital which was now fleating about for want of some opportunity of' investment, he would support it; especially as he had heard nothing to induce him to believe that it would make the condition of slavery worse in the West Indies.
 Dr. Lushington  objected to the principle of the bill, and reminded the House that if they consented to give this company what they now asked, it would be easy for them to obtain the sanction of the Crown to become a corporation. The right hon. gentleman had not stated, in the course of his observations, what was too well known; namely, that the colonies had been a losing concern for some years back; and he had no less carefully abstained from stating his own opinion, that this proposed advance of capital would be enough to keep the system alive. The legal rate of interest on West-India property was now 6 per cent; but, was that the rate at which money was ever lent? Was not, in reality, the interest on advances of money by consignees, and the insurance of the stores, nearer to 10 per cent? It was said, that West-India property was insecure. True, it was so; and why? Because the returns of the estates were insufficient, and therefore advances were never made but under the circumstances, and upon the terms he had stated. And how was the proposed company to relieve this state of things? It must be either by raising the price of sugar, or by their becoming the holders of the West-India estates. If they should become the holders of those estates, they would, in their character of mortgagees, be unable to exercise all that privilege of manumitting the slaves, which was exercised by the proprietors, and which was, in every point of view, of the deepest importance. There were other grounds upon which he felt obliged to oppose the bill. It empowered the company to lend money in any part of the globe; there
 616
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  was convinced that the bill would be rather beneficial than; injurious to the slaves. If by any means the value of West-India property was in-creased, and if at the same time the slaves were allowed to work out their freedom, the increased value given for their labour would the sooner enable them to accomplish their emancipation. His learned friend had contended, that the bill would cause a forced influx of capital into the West-Indies. Now, it would not cause an influx, but a transfer only. There was no difference, as regarded the quantity of capital, whether the mortgages of West-India property were in the hands of individuals, or of a corporation; but, if the West-India proprietors were pressed upon by the private mortgage, it might be a great relief to him to be able to transfer
 617
 Mr. Maberly  rose, to bring forward his motion for the Repeal of the Assessed Taxes. It was his intention, he said, to deal with this subject on the largest possible scale. He should first take a view of the financial statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer, and should then lay before the House his own views of the sinking fund, and endeavour to demonstrate the absurdity of continuing it. From the view which the right hon. gentleman had taken of the revenue and expenditure of the country for the next four years, it was evident that there was no chance of a repeal of taxation to any extent until
 618 l. d. d., l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 619 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 620 l. l. l. 621 l. l. l. l. 622 s. l. l l. l. 623
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  felt it his duty to state his reasons for not voting for the motion. He disliked the assessed taxes
 627
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. mover had merely agitated the same question, which had come under the consideration of the House about six weeks ago, upon a motion made by the hon. member for Westminster. Upon that occasion he had stated the reasons why he could not consent to the repeal of the assessed taxes, and nothing had since occurred to invalidate those reasons. The grounds upon which the hon. member for Westminster rested his motion were precisely similar to those which the hon. member for Abingdon had just advanced in support of his propositions. The hon. member for Westminster, however, had not been able to persuade the House to agree to his proposition, and he could see no reason why the efforts of the hon. member for Abingdon should be attended with a happier result. He was not quite accurate when he said that the motion of the hon. member was precisely the same as that which had been made by the hon. member for Westminster. The latter
 624 l. l l. l. l. 625 l. l. l.
 Mr C. R. Ellis,  though indirectly interested in this question, would only give his consideration to it upon public grounds, upon which grounds he wished it every success. The House had it in their power to pledge his hon. friend, either to obtain a charter before the bill should come out of the committee, or to withdraw it altogether. He approved of it as an admi-
 613
 Mr. Sykes  thought that the present bill could not be allowed to proceed to a second reading. He looked upon it as an aggressive and encroaching measure introduced under the modest garb of a private bill, to the great prejudice of the public interests. He could not at all conjecture how it tended to give any relief to the West-India proprietors, which they could not obtain quite as easily at present. His chief objections to it were on public grounds. He disliked the command which the accumulation of so large a capital as four millions would give the company over the West-India trade. He knew that no undertaking could be more hazardous than such an investment and it was a still stronger objection that the creditors of the company would have no security for their debts, excepting the property comprised in the act of incorporation. The separate members would be rendered individually irresponsible. Was it to be endured that the unfortunate people who might be induced to intrust them with their property without ever supposing that they were not responsible individually, should be left in a state so disadvantageous? He himself knew of parties who had sued a mayor and corporation and recovered from them: but still the mayor and corporation laughed at the success of the suitor, because their corporate property and responsibility only being in question, there was nothing upon which he could seize of sufficient value to meet his demand. Not one in a thousand who might deal with this company would be aware, that the members were not answerable individually for their debts. But they had more than this to dread. This influence of so formidable a company over the West-India trade would be extremely detrimental. What individual merchant could compete with a company possessing four millions of capital? Then it was to be observed, that this capital was to be divided into
 611 l.
 Mr. Sykes  apprehended, that the immense capital of the company, and the influence which it would consequently procure them, would enable them to obtain a monopoly of the market for West-India produce. The West-India merchants already possessed a monopoly of the home-market; there would, therefore, be a monopoly within a monopoly, an  imperium in imperio.
 Mr. Ellice  understood from the right hon. gentleman, that the gas bill to which he had referred had been granted conditionally; that was to say, if the company could not obtain a charter from the Crown then the powers of the bill were to be inoperative. Why not allow this bill to proceed upon the same conditions?
 Mr. Littleton  said, it was most disgraceful in those whose duty it was to repair the cathedral, to suffer it almost to fall, and then, with unblushing effrontery, to apply to parliament for assistance. The right hon. baronet had alluded to the cathedral of Lichfield; but the fact was, not only that bishop Cornwallis contributed to the repairs to almost the whole extent of his revenue, but that a great proportion of the chapter revenue, now and hereafter, was available for such repairs as were necessary. The dean and chapter of that cathedral would feel ashamed to come to parliament with such an application as the present.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he feared the citizens of Derry would be left without a place of worship, unless the House came to "some prompt decision on this subject. At present, they had in fact no church; for it happened that the cathedral, which was in a dilapidated state, was the only church within the walls, and no service had been performed there for two years. The consequence was, that it was found necessary to apply to the Presbyterian congregation for the use of their chapel. The citizens were not able to repair the cathedral; and thus 7,000 or 8,000 people were without a regular place of worship. The difficulty of the case was, to devise some mode of giving them a church, without saddling them with the expense. A letter written by him had been alluded to. It was a letter written for a private and local purpose, and he was sorry that it had been published: but, as it had been given to the public, he was prepared to support the opinions therein stated. He thought the revenues of the church should, when it was necessary, be applied to the purpose of repairs. That this was not done, in the present case, was the more extraordinary, as the riches of that diocess were notorious. He concurred in the sentiments which had fallen from gentlemen. He trusted those sentiments would bring the dean and chapter to a proper sense of their duty. The intention of the bill was, to make the parishioners liable for present and future repairs; and he could wish, whether it was agreed to or not, that the House would take some step to see this ancient edifice put into repair.
 Mr. F. Buxton,  after the length to which the discussion had proceeded, would, in a few words, enter his protest against the measure, as highly detrimental to the interests of the slaves. In the first place, by enhancing their value, it would make the chance of their manumission more remote; and in the second, by placing them in the power—not of their owners, but—of persons who would not have the power, even if they had the inclination, to give them their freedom, it would render their situation far more hopeless than it was at present. He should, therefore, feel it to be his duty to oppose the bill at every possible opportunity.
 Mr. Hume  said, the right hon, gentleman had made some observations which had much surprised him. He had, on a former occasion, stated the reduction of debt to be 24,000,000 l. l. 626 l.
 Mr. N. Calvert  said, there was a general cry in the country at present for cheap labour, cheap bread, and cheap manufactures, and he did not know how these could be cheap, unless the things which the labourer consumed were cheap. He would therefore rather seethe taxes on soap, leather, and salt reduced, which particularly pressed on the lower clases, than the assessed taxes. He therefore felt himself compelled to vote against the motion.
 Mr. Leycester  said, he was anxious to abolish a system which had converted the sturdy squire into a pliant place-hunter. He looked upon the sinking fund to be as mischievous as the restrictions upon free trade. It might be necessary for Russia, Prussia, and Austria, whose despots would soon imitate the conduct of Ferdinand of Spain, to adopt such a system; but for this country, whose resources and public credit stood so high, to persevere in its continuance was absurd and mischievous. As to the debt, there were two ways of dealing with it. One way was, to diminish the debt itself; the other, to increase the wealth of the debtor. In neither of these ways would the keeping up of a sinking fund operate. It was an artificial proceeding altogether unworthy of this country, and therefore with great satisfaction he seconded the motion.
 Mr. T. Wilson  defended the plan, as one of peculiar accommodation to the West-India proprietors, who would, but for this establishment, be obliged to go hawking about their securities, and by that means incur the disagreeable suspicion of being in insolvent circumstances.
 Mr. Evans  said, he felt it his duty to throw every obstacle in his power in the way of the passing of this bill. The supporters of it professed to raise the value of West-India property. He could not conceive how this could be done, without raising the price of the produce; unless, which the projectors disclaimed, by lowering the duties on sugar. The bill gave to a greater number of persons in this country, an interest in the West-India colonies, and would thus render more difficult any improvement in the condition of the slaves.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that if he understood that the bill was to have the operation which the hon. gentleman had ascribed to it, he should think it highly objectionable on the general principle. The hon. gentleman had argued as if the effect of the bill would be, to secure the whole trade of the West Indies to the company proposed to be formed. He had stated, that it could not fail to raise the price of sugar, because the company were to become great dealers in it; and with a capital of four millions, to unite in themselves a monopoly both as planters and as traders. This was, however, not the intention of the company. They did not propose to trade at all. They never in-
 614 615
 Mr. Huskisson  repeated his objection to allowing any bill for incorporation, which was not preceded by a charter obtained from the Crown.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that he should certainly object to bills of incorporation, unless where charter was first regularly obtained from the Crown. This was the old and the regular course of parliamentary proceeding.—Having obtained their charter from the king in council, the company came to the House of Commons
 609
 Mr. Huskisson  did not mean to say, that there might not exist a strong case on the part of this particular company for incorporation; but he could see nothing at present which took it out of the rule which he had just laid down. Without attempting to question the policy of incorporating a West-India company, he took the objection which he had before urged generally—that the origin of it was irregular, and that the parties must be required to begin with obtaining first of all their charter from the Crown; and if it should be found that its powers were insufficient, they would then be intitled to come to parliament either for the enlarging or confirming of those powers.
 Mr. Manning  supported the bill, and said, that it would only enable the company to do collectively, what the members of it might now do individually.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the system the colonies were pursuing, was one which must end in their complete ruin; and the effect of the measure now proposed would be, to involve them in far greater misery than what they now suffered. Looking at the proposed company only as a private one, he could not but think, that whatever advantages of local knowledge they might possess would be more than counterbalanced by the prejudices which might be supposed to actuate them. In nine cases out of ten, they would consider what might be the interests of the company rather than those of the planters. But there was another point of view in which this measure seemed still more objectionable. At present the West-India interests enjoyed the advantage of a monopoly of sugar, supported by a high protecting duty. Now, the only means by which this company could hope to gain any advantage from their enterprise must be by raising the price of sugar; and to this end they were to be allowed to buy and sell to the amount of four millions. This consideration, if it were the only one, ought to induce the House to pause before they agreed to the present bill.
 Mr. W. Williams  would oppose the bill in every stage. How could a company carry on the business of plantations better than expert individuals? Did it become parliament to sanction the pretence of a more profitable investment of capital, which might sweep scores of help-
 612
 Mr. W. Whitmore  strongly opposed the bill, because it threatened the freedom and general interests of the sugar-trade, and tended to establish a baneful monopoly. It was well known, that the West-India sugar market had produced an excess of the article for several years past, which was now, however, rapidly diminishing. Let this company once be established, and not only would the excess be diminished to nothing, but the public might be called upon to pay from 50 to 100 per cent beyond the natural value of the commodity. He thought it extraordinary, after the lamentable example of the South-Sea scheme, that there should be any attempt to renew the experiment. There should be the most unquestionable proof, before granting the charter, that there was no mode of carrying on the trade so safe or convenient as by an incorporated company. For want of this precaution, Adam Smith, in commenting on the South-Sea scheme, had asserted on the authority of a French author, that from the year 1680, to his time, there had been no less than fifty-five joint-stock companies incorporated in Europe, every one of which had failed.
 Sir George Hill  expressed his deep regret, that a measure which he had prepared in consequence of the unanimous vote of vestry, and a liberal grant of the corporation supported by a petition from the bishop, dean, chief magistrate, and principal inhabitants of Derry, and intended to accomplish so excellent and so necessary an object, should meet with such discouragement from the House as to prevent him from persevering in it. It was now clear, that the House disapproved of the measure, from an impression that the clergy had not done their duty. The occupation of some other place of worship than the cathedral could not be avoided, whilst the parishioners were putting on a new roof. The dean, who was a zealous, charitable divine, and constantly resident, was liable in this respect to no reproach. It having been believed, that Derry cathedral had no economy fund, and was no more than any other parish church in the diocess, this measure of creating one was resorted to. The diocess of Derry presented a body of clergy, not merely irreproachable, but, by their conscientious discharge of their professional duties, entitled to his humble praise. He did not believe there was in the whole diocess a single non-resident. With these explanations he would withdraw his motion.
 Sir George Hill,  on moving the second reading, said, that the bill had two objects. The first was to vest in the bishop, dean, mayor, and representatives of the city and county of Derry, subscriptions, which had been entered into, for the rebuilding of the spire, and repairing and embellishing the cathedral. The estimate of the expense
 604 l. l, l. l. l.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that in consequence of the carelessness of those who should keep those sacred edifices in repair, many of the most ancient of them had vanished. Funds which should have been applied to the repairs of cathedrals had too often been appropriated to purposes of private emolument; and then the House was called on to furnish money for repairs, because no inquiry was instituted as to what had become of those funds. Sums were levied on entire parishes for this purpose; but from those parochial proceedings the whole body of the Roman Catholics were excluded. They were liable to contribute their money; but they
 607
 Lord Milton  said, he would vote for the motion upon this principle—that the only chance there was of driving ministers to a general repeal of taxes, was by voting for the repeal of every particular tax that it might be proposed so to deal with.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that the learned gentleman who presented the petition had mentioned the subject to him only yesterday, when he (Mr. Peel) had observed, that as it related to circumstances which occurred two years before he was in office, he could of course have no knowledge respecting it; that therefore, if the learned gentleman presented the petition this day, he (Mr. P.) could not obtain any information as to those circumstances; but that if the learned gentleman postponed presenting the petition, he would obtain every necessary explanation. As the matter stood, the allegations in the petition were merely those of the petitioner himself; and it was singu-
 646
 Mr. Plunkett  remembered the case of M'Cusker, who had sustained a very gross outrage. When the facts were laid before him, he had directed that inquiries should be made into the whole affair. The Crown solicitor had been of opinion, that the parties ought to be prosecuted, and the defence before the magistrate was, in truth, rather an aggravation of the original crime. On the trial, the prisoners had proved alibis, and were acquitted. As to the subsequent distress for costs, that part of the transaction seemed almost impossible; and he could not help thinking that the hon. member had been misinformed respecting it. The gentleman complained of was not a county magistrate, but a justice of peace by virtue of his office; he was provost of Enniskillen, not removeable by the lord chancellor, but upon application to the court of King's-bench, on its being shewn that he was unfit for his situation. Although he (Mr. P.) had thought his conduct highly censurable, he had not believed that he acted wilfully and maliciously, and had therefore refrained from making any motion in the court of King's-bench to remove him.
 General Archdall  vindicated the juries of the county of Fermanagh; and maintained that they were as conscientious a body as could be found in any part of the kingdom. As to the attack upon the cottage of the petitioner, it did not appear that it was made by the Orange or Protestant party; for the Orange and the Protestant party in Ireland were the same thing.
 Mr. Dogherty  said, he did not think that any thing would have passed, even on the subject of Ireland, which would have overcome the reluctance he felt in rising for the first time. He was as yet a stranger, and if the hon. member for Midhurst had confined himself to the facts of the petition, however strongly he might have stated them, he should have remained silent. He begged it to be understood, that it was not his intention to offer any observations in vindication of the magistrate whose conduct had been called in question; of the attorney-general, who had prosecuted the offenders; or of the right hon. secretary for Ireland, who had directed an inquiry; but, coming newly from the sister kingdom, any imputation on the mode in which justice was administered there, sounded strange in his ears. It was under the superintendence of a body of great and good men, who acted with integrity and impartiality, and whose conduct would be an honour even to this country, where the law of the land was so nobly dispensed to all classes of the community. He had been provoked to open his lips by hearing statements made as of facts that could only have been tolerated in Spain or under some severer despotism. They would not be tolerated in Ireland. That they had occurred, he was not prepared to deny: they might have occurred in England, but they would have been followed by merited punishment. He begged leave to say, in anticipation of any future slur upon the administration of justice in Ireland, should any such be made, that his name could carry no further weight upon the subject, than that he had just come from Ireland, had just witnessed the manner in which the law was dispensed, and he could therefore say, without the slightest hazard of rebuke, that it would gratify the sincerest lover of the purest justice to witness the manner in which the courts were open to the rich and poor of all parties. Upon this subject he had had a professional experience of some seventeen years. He had been a diligent attendant in five counties of Ireland, and he could not charge his recollection with a single instance where
 651
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  rose, to ask the right hon. secretary for Ireland, whether he would make any objection to the production of the judge's notes, as requested in the petition? What had fallen from the attorney-general rather strengthened the claim of the House in this particular. He had said, that before the magistrate the men accused vindicated themselves on the ground of justifiable revenge against M'Cusker, but that on the trial they had rested their defence successfully on an alibi. These were inconsistent; but, from the judge's notes, it would appear on what ground the jury had acquitted the prisoners. Some of the remarks of his learned friend who spoke last, shewed that he had not long sat in the House, or he would have known that the acknowledged candour and moderation of the hon. member for Midhurst little justified those remarks. He united the zeal and warmth of an Irishman to the acuteness and discrimination of an Englishman. Did his learned friend mean to extend his eulogium to the magistracy of Ireland; or, rather, did he not know that there was much in their conduct that deserved strong reprobation? Hence the recent inquiries and the recent sweeping exclusions by the lord chancellor. Was it not notorious that gross partiality had existed among them? He valued as much as any man the trial by jury; but because he valued it, and because he reprobated religious distinctions which were likely to deprive it of all its advantages, he would go so far as to say, that it might become a serious question, whether, for the sake of the tranquillity of the country, it would not be advisable to suspend even the trial by jury? Certain, he was, that in a case on which religious animosities prevailed, he
 652
 Mr. Abercrumby  said, that he had been entrusted with a petition of such a nature that he felt himself called upon to present it that night. The petitioners were freeholders of the county of Cavan. The complaint was, that the freedom of election had been grossly violated by the partial and almost factious conduct of the sheriff. On the advancement of colonel Barry to the peerage, by the title of lord Farnham, a vacancy occurred for the representation of the county of Cavan, and a writ for the election had been transmitted to the high sheriff in due course. That officer, whose duty it was to conduct himself with the strictest impartiality, gave notice of the approaching election by a placard headed by an effigy of king William on horseback, with the orange colours, and an inscription, "To the glorious and immortal memory." These were well-known indications of the party to which he belonged. Under these inauspicious circumstances the election commenced, and it was conducted throughout in the same spirit. On the day of the opening of the poll, all the avenues of the court-house were crowded by persons professing the opinions of Orangemen, who conducted themselves through the day in the most intemperate manner. It was with the utmost difficulty that two gentlemen obtained a hearing, while they proposed Mr. Coote, the second candidate: they could not have put him in nomination at all, had they not called for protection upon that very sheriff who had so publicly recorded his own opinions. In fact, in the course of that night a murder had been committed—the life of a fellow-creature had been sacrificed to party violence. During the
 653
 Mr. Maxwell,  as member for the county of Cavan, deemed himself called upon to offer a few words. The charge against the high sheriff, of countermanding the proclamation which had been mentioned by the learned gentleman, was very unfairly repeated by the petitioners; for
 654
 Mr. Stanley  said, it was not his intention at that late hour, to make any extended observations on the main question before the House. He should merely express his entire concurrence in the motion which had concluded the able and statesman-like speech of his noble friend near him. If that motion needed any stronger support, it had obtained it in the statements which had been made in the eloquent speech which they had just heard from the other side of the House. The hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Mr. North) had drawn a most eloquent, melancholy, and, he feared, too true a picture of the state of Ireland. Deeply as he regretted the truth of that picture, he did not regret the force and eloquence with which it had been drawn, because, while he listened with the deepest attention to the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, he felt at the time, that the hon. and learned gentleman was only proving the great and overwhelming necessity for a full and perfect inquiry. Amidst all the eloquence, however, of the hon. and learned gentleman, the only argument by which he had attempted to destroy his own arguments, was,) that the subject was so extensive, that no inquiry of the House could reach it, and that therefore it would be better to leave Ireland to her own solitary and disregarded misery. But, if it was true, as the hon. member contended, that no benefit could be anticipated from such an inquiry as that proposed by the noble lord, upon what possible principle was it that the hon. member supported the amendment of the right hon. secretary which still proposed an inquiry, but of a character incomparably more limited? His own object, however, in rising at so late an hour was, not to discuss the general merits of the present subject, but merely to account for the vote which he had given—and given reluctantly—against a motion for inquiry into the state of the church establishment in Ireland on a former evening. He had not given that vote because he felt any disinclination to inquiry. On the contrary, he thought that one of the greatest afflictions under which Ireland laboured was the ignorance of those who legislated
 705
 Sir John Sebright  supported the original motion, and objected entirely to trusting the inquiry to the management of the executive government.
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, that, after the eloquent speeches of the noble lord and the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, and considering the various motives which were likely to operate on an occasion of so much importance as the present, he felt some surprise that the right hon. secretary opposite, who so often gave the House the benefit of his eloquence, should not have stated his views with respect to a subject of so much interest as the state of Ireland, and the evils which afflicted that unfortunate country. The speech which the House had just heard from the hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Mr. North) was unquestionably a very eloquent speech; but he thought he might venture to say without any want of fairness, and he hoped without any offence to the hon. and learned gentleman, that the eloquence of the speech was only equalled by its marvellous inconsistency. No doubt the speech was a very eloquent one, but it was a speech which no member could be called upon to answer. Indeed, he felt it necessary to apologise for trespassing at all on the patience of the House by making any observation with respect to a
 706 707 708 709 710 711 712
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that this was the second occasion within a short period, on which the hon. baronet had expressed his dissatisfaction at the silence observed by his majesty's ministers. The hon. baronet, however, should in justice remember, that, upon the point of speaking, he had greatly the advantage over those of whom he complained. Coming down, after a long absence from the House, with a keen appetite for debate, he ought to consider that the feast would naturally be less tempting to those who were presented with it night after night, and sometimes, indeed, usque ad nauseam. The right hon. secretary then proceeded to regret, that the forms of the House prevented his hon. and learned friend (Mr. North) from going over the numberless points in which the hon. baronet had mistaken him; and, in coming to the question before the House, he observed, that it seemed to him to lay within a very narrow compass. The subject for discussion, as he thought, was much less the general state of Ireland, than the comparative merits of the two courses which were proposed by his right hon. friend near him, and by the noble lord opposite. Each party proposed a select committee; and it would be well to examine the difference between their views. The noble lord wished to inquire into the state of Ireland generally; his right hon. friend to confine the inquiry to the nature and extent of the disturbances which existed in certain districts. There was no question therefore as to the inquiry; the only question was, as to its extent. Here was Ireland, then, great part of which was
 713 714
 Mr. Secretary Canninig  said, that as the noble lord had alluded to him so distinctly towards the conclusion of his speech, he might be charged with want of courtesy if he permitted the question to go to a division without saying a few words. The lateness of the hour would, however, be a guarantee to the House, that he would not trespass longer on its time than was absolutely necessary. The noble lord, in winding up the different topics which he proposed for the consideration of the committee, had alluded to one which he thought it of the utmost importance that the House should accede to. For his own part he could not take such a view of that great question as to think that it required to be submitted to a committee. No committee could put the House into more complete possession of the important principles upon which that question was to be decided, or throw any new light on the subject. His own opinions, with
 715 716 717 718 719 720
 Mr. Sykes  expressed his hope that at least, considering the severity of the sentence in other respects, the petitioner would not be called upon for sureties.
 Mr. Canning  explained. He had not insisted on the fact, that the opposition were pledged to parliamentary reform. But, whether it were so or no, it was impossible for him to find a united government, had he joined them; since they must have been divided, either among themselves, or with respect to him, upon the question of reform in parliament.
 Mr. Tierney  apologized for detaining the House for a short time, being induced thereto by a few remarks of the right hon. gentleman, which touched him almost personally. With respect to the motion on Catholic emancipation, in the session of last year, he had said then, and he said now, that as the right hon. gentleman was nearly sure of a majority in this House, and as sure of the measure being in the minority in the House of Lords, although, for other purposes, the right hon. gentleman was prepared with as full a majority in one House as the other, he did consider the bringing forward that measure as little better than a mockery; yet, because he had always supported the question, he would not then withdraw from it, and for the sake of appearances only, he had given it the support of his vote. The right hon. gentleman has assumed, that it was impossible for him to have acquired for that question the support of government. He would ask the right hon. gentleman—did he ever try? [Hear.] Let not the House receive so easily the insinuation, that his noble friend had offered him the co-operation of his party if he would undertake to carry it. His noble friend had not done any such thing, nor would he, because, in fact, he had no such power. All that his noble friend addressing the right hon. gentleman, had said, amounted to something like this, "You are a fortunate man: you have risen to a situation in the government which, perhaps, you never expected to reach; your conduct in the course of this and the last session has made you many friends, go on and prosper; all you have to do is to hold to the principles which you have professed: don't forget your principles, and you may depend upon the support of parliament." All that was asked of the right hon. gentleman was, that he would try what he could do for the question. He might answer, that he had no hope of doing any thing without the help of the opposition. That was not his (Mr. T's) proposition. He referred to what the right hon. gentleman might have done of himself. Did he suppose that he was stopped from his emigration out of any strong respect or affection for him? Was he not aware, that there was one member in the cabinet—and that not
 721 722 723
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that in the observations which he should feel it his duty to submit to the House, he would endeavour to confine himself to those questions which ought properly to be taken into consideration on the present occasion, and would avoid entering into the wide field of inquiry which had been opened by the noble lord. If the House would recollect the part which he had taken when questions of a similar nature had been discussed, they would have little doubt as to the course which he would pursue with respect to the present motion. He could not, consistently with his sense of duty, accede to the motion of the noble lord. But, when he stated this, he begged leave to say, that he felt no disposition to limit any inquiry into the state of Ireland, except so far as appeared necessary in order that any such inquiry might be attended with an advantageous result. The noble lord called for the appointment of a com-
 684 685 686 687 l. l. 688
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he did not pretend to be cognizant of all the steps adopted in the case. He recollected that, on the eve of his departure from Dublin, he had received a statement of the case of M'Cusker. Directions were given to the Crown solicitor to inquire into the particulars of the transaction, and to bring the offenders to justice. There his (Mr. G's) knowledge ended. He had never heard of the trial, and did not know of its result, excepting from the statement of the petitioner.
 Mr. North  perfectly agreed with the noble lord as to the necessity of investigation into the state of Ireland, and was persuaded that there could be no objection, on the part of his majesty's govern-
 694 695 696 "Some safer world in depths of woods embrac'd, Some happier island in the wat'ry waste." 697 698 699 700 701 702 703
 Mr. J. Smith  thought the Irish government had not done all that it ought to have done, under the circumstances. If such a transaction had occurred in England, very different measures would
 650
 Mr. J. Smith  rose to present a petition which would be found to be of considerable importance. The petitioner was a poor man of the name of James M'Cusker, and he stated, that on the 15th of December, 1823, his cabin had been surrounded by forty or fifty persons, armed with guns, & c. five of whom burst into his dwelling, stabbed him in various parts of his body, broke his arm, cruelly ill-treated his wife and children, wounded his two brothers that came to his assistance, and finally set fire to his cottage. For some days, in consequence of the personal injuries he and his brothers received, he had been unable to apply to a magistrate, but afterwards went before lord Belmore who said that he could not properly interfere, as recourse ought to be had to some justice of the peace in the more immediate neighbourhood. The petitioner accordingly went before other magistrates,
 648
 Mr. J. Williams  said, he rose to present a petition from an individual of the name of Joseph Swann, who was, he believed, the solitary remaining prisoner of those persons who were incarcerated and prosecuted in the year 1819. It was, though it had escaped his recollection, his lot to have prosecuted that individual. From the time that had elapsed, it was not to be wondered at that the circumstance had escaped his recollection. It appeared from the petition, that Mr. Swann had been a mechanic and artizan, residing at Macclesfield. In consequence of the very great distress that at that period prevailed throughout the manufacturing districts, the petitioner was compelled to change his means of exertion, and he became a vender of books and pamphlets. He was apprehended on the 21st of August, 1819, on a charge of selling blasphemous publications, and was detained in close custody till October, a period of eight weeks. Having been then discharged upon bail, he was a second time apprehended, on the 28th of December following, and detained at Middlewich to the January following. The petitioner stated, that during that latter period, he was chained with other prisoners. Without resting on the allegations of the petitioner, he (Mr. W.), reflecting on the temper of those times, believed there was reason to fear, that per-
 644 645
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the petitioner did not ask for mercy. That he was above doing. What he complained of
 647
 Mr. James  observed, that for the severe punishment which this individual had experienced, and which arose out of the political agitations of 1819, the magistrates were deeply responsible. It was unwarrantable, and could scarcely be paralleled in the history of political persecution. The petitioner was innocent of all criminal acts. He had merely attended a public meeting, where he did not utter a syllable; but a Mr. Buckley made what was called an inflammatory speech. To shew that the magistrates were ashamed of what had been done, they had for twelve months been inducing the gaoler to endeavour to persuade Swann to petition for a remission of his sentence. He had not thought proper to comply with their wish. and was prepared to suffer the extent of his punishment, in order to afford a specimen of the severity with which an individual might be treated under a free government, which was said to be "the envy of surrounding nations, and the admiration of the world."
 Mr. Peel  suggested, that, as the House was at present discussing the subject on imperfect information, it might be advisable to postpone the motion for printing the petition for a few days, during which time inquiries might be made, the answers to which would probably be satisfactory to the House. According to his recollection, the petitioner had omitted on the trial to bring forward an important witness.
 Sir F. Blake  complained, that the ministry was composed of individuals of discordant opinions. If he were asked, what he would do with the present administration, he would say, "Do away with them." The liberal part of the cabinet were clogged in their movements by the drag-chain of their unwilling companions. The ultras in the cabinet would, he feared, never become liberal. The motion should have his cordial support.
 Sir H. Parnell  said: Mr. Speaker; I rise thus early to address the House, from my anxiety to give every support in my power to the noble lord, by seconding the motion he has made; and, as a representative of Ireland, to express my great obligations to him for the excellent speech with which he has opened to the House the most important subject, I may say, of all domestic political subjects—the state of that country. The noble lord, on this occasion, as is his custom on all others, in which the interests of Ireland are concerned, has displayed a most laudable and useful zeal to improve its condition; and when it is considered how great the benefit is, that is conferred on Ireland, by having its affairs treated so ably and so liberally by the noble lord, and, I may also add, by so many other English members, so far, at least, whatever may be the doubts to which the noble lord has alluded in his speech, as entertained by some persons respecting the policy of the Union, there can be no reason for complaint, that the interests of Ireland are not attended to, or not discussed with all the advantages of the most anxious and sincere desire to serve them. 665 666 667 668 669 670 l., l., l. 671 672 673 674 675 676 * * Edinburgh Review, 677 678 679 680 681 682 683
 Sir John Newport  said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had adopted a most extraordinary line of argument. While he called upon the people of England and Ireland to lay aside all prejudices, and while he lamented the ignorance which prevailed with respect to the state of Ireland, he proposed to leave them in that happy state of ignorance, by opposing a motion for inquiry. The hon. and learned gentleman called upon the legislature to abdicate its functions, and to leave it to the executive government to take up this question how they pleased, and when they pleased. Now, it was not because the present government had neglected the subject, but because it had been neglected by every government for a long series of years, that it was proper that the legislature should examine what was done, and point out those measures which were applicable to the state of Ireland, and those which were defective. That was the scope of his noble friend's proposition; while that of the right hon. secretary embraced only a small portion of the community, and referred merely to the administration of a single act of coercion—an act of renunciation of the benefits of the British constitution. Unless the House took up the question on the enlarged scale proposed by his noble friend, it was in vain to hope for any amelioration in the condition of the people of Ireland. Whenever it was proposed to inquire into the state of that country, they were constantly met by the objection, that the motion was either too large or too minute. When he saw mem-
 704
 Lord Althorp,  in rising to call the attention of the House to the important subject of which he had given notice, begged to assure the House, that no man living could be more sensible than he was of the difficulties with which it was surrounded. He bespoke their indulgence, not merely because he should find it necessary to trespass upon their time at some length, but because he felt that his powers were inadequate to cope with the numerous difficulties which presented themselves to him. Most forcibly as he was impressed with this latter consideration, he was nevertheless encouraged to persevere in his intention, because he believed, even if he should fail to persuade the House to accede to the measure which he should have the honour to propose, that the mere discussion of the question would produce so much good, as amply to reward him for any exertion he might make, and console him for a disappointment, if he should be fated to encounter one. The difficulties of Ireland seemed to him to arise from a long course of unfortunate events. From the commencement of our connexion with her, it was not too much to say, that she had been treated, in every way, as a conquered country: and the evils which were necessarily attendant upon such a state of things, had, for the last two centuries of that con-
 655 656 657 658 659 660 l. 661 662 663 664
 Lord Milton  observed, that he fully concurred with the right hon. secretary for Ireland, that it was essentially necessary to inquire into the nature and extent of the disturbances which had so long prevailed in certain districts of Ireland; but, while he felt that necessity, he could not accede to the limited proposition of the right hon. gentleman, which endeavoured, by a side wind, to get rid of that general and comprehensive investigation, which was alone competent to put parliament and the country in possession of the real situation of the people of Ireland, the evils which afflicted them, and the correctives which such a continued state of distress and discontent required. One thing, however, was admitted by the speech of the right hon. gentleman, the admission of which, however to be regretted, was still an advantage in looking to the future. It was that at least in a part of that country there had been a long continued system of misgovernment. After six centuries, since the conqueror gave the law to a conquered people, the secretary to the Irish government had admitted, that though in some districts the condition of the people was favourable, yet in large, and opulent, and important districts of Ireland, such was its actual state of distress and insubordination, that at length the long-denied parliamentary inquiry was essentially necessary. But still it was necessary, that the powers of that House, in making such inquiry, should, in the view of the right hon. gentleman, be partial. He had presumed, that, by adding together the dif-
 689 690 691 692 l. 693
 Lord Milton  lamented that the gallant general had thrown an imputation upon the great body of the Protestants of Ireland, of whom he (lord M.) was one; for he had been born in that country. The imputation was, that all Protestants were Orangemen; which was, in other words, to say, that they were all members of associations which it had been declared necessary to put down. Such associations were almost of a seditious nature; since they were calculated to promote dissention throughout the country.
 The Hon. G. A. Ellis  observed, that the character, the sacrifices, and the sufferings of the petitioners entitled them to the relief which they sought, and which, he trusted, they would speedily obtain.
 Mr. L. Forster  said, that the learned gentleman could not render those individuals a greater service, than by turning in his mind how it was possible to carry that which they requested into effect. The difficulty arose from those people having no distinguishing tenet, except this scruple of taking an oath. In the case of a Jew, a Mahometan or a Hindoo, the religious forms of the party were known, and, under the sanction of those forms, he might give evidence. But, in the absence of form, with respect to the Separatist, it was difficult to devise what course could be pursued.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  thought the difficulty could easily be got rid of. It would be only necessary to enact, that, upon the Separatist's proving, by proper witnesses, that he belonged to that sect, he should be permitted to make his affirmation.
 Mr. Wynn  was well inclined to diminish the number of unnecessary oaths, but
 726
 Mr. Brougham  presented a petition from the Separatists of Sligo, praying for such an alteration in the law as would enable them to enjoy those privileges which were within the reach of their fellow-subjects, without taking those oaths which they conscien-
 725
 Mr. Lockhart  supported the petition. Looking to the conduct of the Quakers, be saw no reason to apprehend any danger from relieving such men as the petitioners from taking oaths.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  bore testimony to the ability, integrity, and fidelity of the persons spoken of. At the period of his coming into office as secretary of state, he found that the measure, against the effect of which the present petition was directed, had been agreed upon. He saw that if was intended to operate universally, and he could not, therefore, claim an exemption in favour of those who were to be employed under him. The House
 728
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that the sentiments of the right hon. secretary had his warm concurrence. He had long been of opinion, that the government officers, from the highest to the lowest, were very inadequately paid.
 Mr. S. Worthy  presented a petition from the Clerks in the civil departments of government, complaining, that against the fair principles of justice, and the conditions under which they were admitted to serve the public, and against the provisions of an act of 1810, they were taxed to the amount of 5 per cent upon their salaries, for contributions towards the Superannuated Fund. The hon. Gentleman supported the petition, and declared the sense which he entertained of the injustice and impolicy of the act of 1822, under which this unequal tax was levied.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he took no blame to himself, as he had done all that he could to prevent the House from adopting the measure. He hoped that government would lose no time in taking off so oppressive a burthen from the shoulders of those who were so little able to bear it.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he had never approved of the measure. It was unjust, because it was a particular tax upon particular persons, with whose emoluments government could have no more right to tamper than with those of the army and navy, or any other class of persons. It was also unwise, because it operated to the changing of the tenure upon which the persons so taxed had been accustomed to serve. It went to give them a greater claim to retired allowances, than should ever be allowed to the subordinate clerks of the departments. Now, however, the mischief was done; and he was not prepared to say that he could devise any feasible measure for a substitute; though it would be very agreeable to him to hear that his right hon. friend was prepared with one.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that undoubtedly, it seemed a hardship to control the emoluments of those who were ill enough paid already, considering their merits and services; but, the House must look at the situation in which the question stood. In former times, the pay of the officers arose from fees, much more than from salaries. Those fees were very lucrative, and enabled the holders, by gra-
 727
 Sir T. Actand  hoped, that the hon. member for Yorkshire would be encouraged by the favourable reception of the petition, to bring the subject again before the House.
 Mr. S. Worthy  intimated, that he should probably, at an early opportunity, introduce the subject in another form.
 Mr. Wodehouse  rose to bring forward his promised motion for the continuance of the Salt Duty; and to enable the House to ascertain if some more substantial relief could not be obtained for the country by the diminution of an equal amount in some other part of the public burthens. He was aware that the great objection which had been urged, as it were in limine, on the consideration of this subject, was, that the faith of parliament stood pledged for the entire abolition of the salt duties [loud cries of "hear"]. He hoped he was not particularly prone to any laxity of principle; but he confessed he could not see how a vote of that House could be held indissoluble. Parliament was a collective body, its faith was its united pledge; perhaps this pledge might have been given when one third of the collective body were not present. But, be that as it might, his idea of the honour of parliament was, to measure its conduct by the present view of what it would be best for the true interest of the country to adopt, under all the circumstances of its present situation. Their duty, and the express order of their institution was, at the time of their being called upon to consider a proposition, to see what was then best for the interests of the country to adopt. What, then, was the best course for the House to take, under existing circumstances, with respect to the remaining salt duties? He was aware that the objection was not so much as to their present amount, as it was to the operation of the Excise regulations which still accompanied the payment of what remained; and the particular inconvenience of which was felt by the class less able to bear that infliction. It must be obvious to all, that the details of such a subject must be left practically to the individuals engaged in the regulations. He had, therefore, for information upon that point, referred to Mr. Carr, the solicitor of the Excise [cries of "hear," from the opposite benches]. He begged to inform the hon. gentlemen who had just cheered his refer-
 742 l., l. l. l. l. l. l. s. d. l. l. 743 s. l. l. 744 l. l. l. 745 "Vestibulum ante ipsum, primisque in faucibus Orci Luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia curæ, Pallentesque habitant morbi;"— l. l. 746
 Mr. Carlwright  seconded the motion. He thought the duty, at its present amount, not oppressive, and that other taxes might be remitted, which would be mote beneficial to the people. The machinery, by which the salt-tax was collected, was not, he contended, more expensive than the machinery for collecting several other taxes. If the tax were remitted, he doubted whether it would go into the pockets of the people.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that standing in the particular situation which he did as a minister of the Crown, he was anxious, at that early period of the debate, to declare, without reserve, the opinion which he held with regard to the present motion. Honourable members would do him the justice to recollect, that in the statement which he had made to them, at the commencement of the session, he had distinctly informed them that if, in the course of it, there should be a general feeling that the cessation of this tax ought not to take place at the time fixed for it by law, it would not be a difficult task to find other means of affording relief to the public; but that he was of opinion that, as far as himself and the government were concerned, they were pledged—[great cheering.] specifically pledged—to adhere to the law as it now stood. He would not go so far as to say that parliament was pledged to stand by that law, if it were good that that law should be repealed; or that the government were bound not to repeal it, if the repeal of it were either good or useful to the public. He had, therefore, on formerly addressing the House, qualified the pledge which he had given in this manner—that there must be a strong general feeling in favour of this tax before he could venture to propose its continuance. If, therefore, any such feeling had been excited, he should have felt himself at liberty to support the motion of his hon. friend; for he agreed with his hon. friend in thinking, that the objections to the continuance of the 2 s. s., 747 l. l. 748
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that he rose as an officer of the Crown, but not to second the motion of his hon. friend. With regard to the first part of his hon. friend's proposition, he did not mean to say a single word; but with regrad to the second, he might be permitted to state, that the propriety of increasing the salaries of the judges had recently been, as indeed it deserved to be, under the consideration of the Crown. The emoluments of the judges were at present insufficient to support the situation which they occupied in the country, and fluctuated according to the fees which they received. Now, he thought that nobody would dispute this proposition—that the emoluments of the judges ought neither to be precarious, nor derived from uncertain fees. The public interest required, that such an addition should be made to the salaries of the judges, as would induce men in the prime of life and of mental vigour, to devote themselves to the discharge of their important duties.
 Mr. Hobhouse  stated, that he should feel it his duty, if the suggestion of the right hon. secretary should ever be submitted to a committee, not only to oppose it, but also to submit another motion of very considerable importance to it, if that suggestion were adopted: namely, that in future, there should be no promotion on the bench. He would not now state his reasons for such a motion, but he had a motive for entertaining the intention; and he repeated, that if the suggestion of the hon. gentleman should travel to a committee, he would not shrink from explain-
 749
 Mr. Sykes  said, that two years only had elapsed since the House was pursuing a rapid race of retrenchment and economy, and he begged to ask what reason had been given, why they should pursue a contrary extreme? He trusted that the subject would be fully discussed before any alteration was determined on.
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, the regulation had been adopted at a period when a very loud cry had been raised for universal retrenchment. In this and in other instances he thought it had been listened to unwisely and unjustly.
 Mr. Watson Taylor  hoped, that the former decision of the House would not be suffered to prejudice the claims of the petitioners; but that justice would be done to a very deserving class of persons, who had endured considerable privation by the measure.
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, it seemed very hard, after the reductions which had been made, that those regulations should be continued, by which the clerks were expected to continue their respective services for double the period formerly required, and that all the recompense they received in the way of superannuation allowance, should be from money which they had paid out of their own pockets. He had no connexion whatever with the petitioners, of whom he knew but three, and those only by sight. He trusted that their case would receive the consideration of the government, and that they would be restored to the footing on which they before stood, in 1818.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the ground upon which the measure had been adopted, was the great increase which had been found in the superannuation list, and the amount of the expense which it brought upon the country. When the measure had been proposed, the late lord Londonderry objected to the clerks in public offices being left without any provision after age should have incapacitated them for further service. Upon that occasion, the House agreed that some provision ought to be made for them, and the regulations alluded to were adopted in consequence. He (Mr. H.) had himself proposed the 14th clause, by which it was provided, that in case of the death of any of these officers before he should be entitled to, or have enjoyed, the superannuated fund, the whole sums that he might have paid should be considered as his personal property, and handed over to his representatives. The superannuation system, therefore, was in the nature of a tontine, and was in no case a benefit to the public, but to the persons by whose contributions it was kept up. He thought the House ought not to suffer itself to be run away with by any fancied liberality, and should be cautious in undoing what had been done on very due deliberation.
 Mr. Leycester  was favourable to an increase of the judges' salaries; and hoped the addition would be accompanied with a provision for a third assize.
 Mr. R. Martin  said, that an hon. member had promised to second his motion, whom he did not at that moment see in the House.
 Mr. R. Martin,  after a speech which was rendered inaudible in the gallery by the confusion prevalent in the House, moved a resolution of which the effect was "to increase the salaries annexed to the great offices of state, and to high judicial situations of the country, so as to render them more adequate to the labour and importance of the duties to be discharged, and more worthy of the justice and liberality of the nation."
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, he would take his share of the odium which attached to the measure complained of, because he thought at the time it was carried, that the interests of the country required retrenchment in every practicable shape. He should now be no less willing to give the alteration suggested his fullest support, if it should appear expedient.
 Mr. Huskisson  would not have risen, but for the remark made by the hon. member for Aberdeen, respecting the increase in the superannuation list. That such an increase bad taken place at the period to
 729 l.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that so large a portion of the able dissertation of his hon. friend had been addressed to the great question of slavery, and so small a portion of it to the very narrow question of which he had given notice; namely, the drawbacks on the exportation of sugar, that he thought the House would agree with him in thinking, that it would have been much more properly addressed to the House,
 738 739 l., l. l. 740
 Mr. James  said, that when the ministers had taken off all the assessed taxes, he should be glad to concur in the proposal to reward more amply the public officers. Until then, the intended liberality would be ill-timed.
 Mr. Whitmore,  in reply, observed, that he had the most conclusive evidence to shew the great difference of price which existed between the sugars of the British plantations, and foreign sugars of inferior quality, on bond. It was quite clear that some change of system must take place. When the right hon. gentleman
 741
 Mr. W. Whitmore  rose to bring under the consideration of the House, the subject of which he had given notice: namely, the Drawbacks, or Bounties, which were paid on the exportation of Sugar. His object was, to procure the appointment of a select committee, to consider the question; and he trusted that he should make it appear to the House, that such a measure was called for by peculiar circumstances. It would be necessary for him, at the outset, to show how the affair stood. In the first place, the West-India interest possessed a monopoly of sugar in the English market against all other countries in which sugar was produced, with the exception of the East Indies. But the sugar which was imported from the East Indies paid a duty of 10 s. s. s., s. s.; s., s. s. 731 s. s.; l. 732 l. 733 734 735 l. l. l. l. l. l. 736 737
 The Speaker  asked, whether any gentleman seconded the motion?
 Sir T. Baring  trusted that the prayer of the petition would be agreed to; as he thought that the officers of the Crown were not sufficiently paid.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that the petition had been carried by a large majority in a court which was fully attended. The fact was, that neither the freeholders of London or Southward were represented at present in that House. With the present number of members it was impossible that the interests of their constituents could be properly attended to.
 Mr. Handley  said, that however beneficial this bill might be to the right hon. gentleman's constituents at Liverpool, still he was informed by competent judges that its effect would be very different on the general interest of the agriculture of this country; since it would hold out an encouragement to foreign countries to deluge the British market with their corn. Entertaining this opinion, he should move as an amendment, "that the bill be read a second time that day six months."
 Mr. Denis Brown  said, that, considering the particular interests of Ireland, he would oppose the bill.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, he was disposed to promote the principle of the bill, if the right hon. gentleman would consent to discuss the last clause first: he alluded to the clause which regulated, that there should be 1961bs. of flour for every 5 bushels of wheat.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that an insinuation had been thrown out against him respecting this bill which he felt it necessary, in the first instance, to repel. Nothing could be more unfounded. He never had introduced, and never would introduce, a measure to that House—and he should be unworthy of his situation if he did so—at the instance of his constituents, which was at variance with the interests of the empire at large. He had given notice of this
 761 762 s s s 763
 Mr. Leslie Forster  agreed with his right hon. friend as to the principle of this bill, but was obliged to differ from him in some of its details. He was therefore in some difficulty as to the course which he should pursue. He did not like to oppose the second reading; but he had certain objections to it, which he must press if they were not obviated in the committee. He wished, at any rate, that this new trade should be founded upon correct principles; because he considered it to be one which in time of plenty, could be productive of no harm, and which in time of dearth might be productive of the greatest advantage."
 Mr. Huskisson  observed, that he intend-
 764
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, he was not disposed, when prices were rising, to withhold a liberal relief to the mercantile body, whose capital was employed in the warehoused wheat. Under these views, he should recommend his hon. friend to withdraw his amendment.
 Sir J. Sebright  said, that after the clear statement of the right hon. gentleman, he had no wish to oppose a measure which, without injuring the agricultural interest, was to afford relief to another great class of the community.
 Mr. Lockhart  expressed his determination to oppose any effort to disturb the corn-laws. It had been said—why not relieve so much British capital now locked up by the operation of the present laws Who could say it was British? Was it not likely to be foreign capital? It was his conviction, that the present bill, if suffered to pass, would deteriorate considerably the security of the land proprietor and cultivator, and destroy altogether their dependence on any future legislative protection.
 Colonel Wodehouse  said, he should not give any opposition to the present measure; but, with reference to the whole question of the corn-laws, he trusted the House would exercise the greatest caution, and that it would not, from any quarter, take opinions upon trust; as he believed there was no question on which opinions, most confidently advanced, were so erroneous as on that of the corn-laws.
 Mr. Cripps  observed, that, from the first moment the foreign corn was introduced, he was convinced the sooner it was got rid of the better for the agriculturist. The effect of its remaining undisposed of was, to produce great fluctuations in the price of home wheat.
 Colonel Wood  thought the bill ought to be postponed until they knew the condition of the next harvest. Though the price of corn was higher at present than it had been for some time past, the capital of the British farmer was still in a very poor condition; and no measure was so calculated to deteriorate it still more, as breaking down the present system of our corn-laws.
 Mr. Huskisson  begged to say, that he had not stated any intention on his part to change the corn-laws. All that he had observed on the general question was,
 765
 Lord Althorp  viewed the present measure as one of perfect indifference to the agricultural interest. The measure would not come into operation until the 15th of August; and if it should then appear that the harvest was not likely to be a good one, the bonded wheat would of necessity be thrown into the mass of foreign corn that would, on the opening of the ports, be introduced. As to the general question of the corn-laws, it was his opinion, that the present system of averages led to the fluctuations of price—one of the greatest evils that could affect agriculture.
 Mr. Bright  said, that the bill had for its object to allow British merchants to turn a large capital to some purpose. He was sorry the right hon. gentleman had given way on the larger and smaller number of bushels. But he yet hoped to see this country the great granary of Europe, importing the wheat of all other nations, and exporting it to other countries, according to their respective wants.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that with the modifications of the measure, and with the understanding that the corn-laws were not to be altered, until the public mind was more prepared for such a change, he should not oppose the bill.
 Mr. Sykes  expressed his approbation of the plan, so far as it went: but was of opinion, that it did not go far enough. He trusted, however, that, at some future period, the right hon. gentleman would be prepared to carry it to a further extent.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he agreed with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and thought that the country gentlemen took a very wrong view of their own interest, in supporting the system of the corn-laws. The present, however, was not the occasion for entering into the large question. When that occasion did arise, he should certainly avail himself of it to point out the errors of their present policy. If any one trade required more than another to be entirely free, it was that very trade of corn. The more food was brought into the country, the better was it for our manufacturers. To augment the quantity of food was to increase the energies and to promote the industry of the country, and by that means to
 766
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  hoped, that Mr. Buxton would consent to postpone his motion on this subject at that late hour.
 Mr. Robertson  said, that the monied men who were in the habit of making advances on goods, and who were the prinpal supporters of the bill, had no reason for introducing it into the House; because, when they made their advances, they had always the means of ascertaining whether the property which was pledged to them, was really vested in the party pledging it. Foreign countries held out the same security to Englishmen sending their goods thither for sale, as we, by this bill, were about to deprive foreigners of in England. He would ask merchants whether they would willingly consign goods to the continent, if the agents to whom they were consigned were allowed to pawn them; and, in the event of the failure of those agents, to be deprived of their property? The bill was calculated to destroy the warehousing trade of the country.
 The Solicitor General  also thought, that the consignor, who could qualify in any manner he thought proper his own mandatum, and protect himself from his consignee, ought to be responsible for the
 760
 Mr. Grenfell  objected to the bill, as having for its object to take away the rights of individuals, without giving them any compensation.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  said, that the hon. mover had complained that both at these insurance offices, and at Lloyd's great difficulty existed in effecting insurances, and in recovering the sums underwritten. But from the report of a committee of that House in 1810, it appeared, that no less than 681,800 l l 771
 Mr. Grenfell  observed, that he did not stand there to justify the system on which such charters had been granted. He was a friend to liberal principles, but he stood there on the faith of an act of parliament. The two corporations in question had paid large sums of money for privileges, of which, he contended, they could not be deprived, unless by the king in council. This was the fourth attempt which, since his experience in parliament, had been made, and which he trusted would fail, as all the previous attempts had failed. In 1806, the Globe Insurance company brought in a bill upon the subject, which however was thrown out. In 1810, his hon. friend, the member for Taunton, had introduced another bill on the subject which had also been thrown out. In consequence of the report of a select committee, in 1811, a third bill had been introduced; and what was its fate? He (Mr. G.) had successfully moved its rejection; and in that effort had been seconded by Mr. Perceval, then chancellor of the Exchequer, by sir V. Gibbs, then attorney-general, and by sir T. Plumer, then solicitor-general, on the ground that the privy council, and not parliament, was the place to which application ought to have been made. In 1813, when the same parties brought the subject before the privy council, lord Ellenborough took so unfavourable a view of their case, that they did not venture to persevere; and from that time to the present, no stir had been made with respect to it. Now, under those circumstances it was, that the present bill was brought before the House. For himself, he had never compromised his principles upon any question; and therefore he felt himself bound to oppose a decided negative to the motion.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that according to the doctrine laid down by the hon. member, the question under consideration was one not to be decided by the House of Commons, but to be referred to his majesty's privy council. He would call
 774
 The Solicitor-General  said, that without pledging himself to any ulterior opinion upon this question, he felt it necessary to state that, in granting the charters in question, parliament never intended to tie up its hands, and deprive itself of the power of granting new charters under any circumstances.
 Lord J. Russell  said, that though he had not thought it expedient to agitate the question this session, he had not abandoned it, but intended early in the next session, to submit a motion upon the subject; as he considered a reform of parliament equally necessary to the protection of the people and the security of the House.
 Mr. Sykes  said, that the bill conferred no new powers, and gave no new privilege to the consignors of goods. The plain state of the case was this. There was a consignor who gave his goods to a consignee, who sold them to a third party in the market; and that third party became responsible for any default of the consignee to his employer, with whom he had no conference whatever in the business. Surely the loss, if any liability to loss occurred in consequence of the default or insolvency of the consignee, ought to fall on the consignor, who intrusted his goods to him, and not on the third party, who was the mere purchaser in the market, and who had paid for them in the way of trade.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  said, he would shortly describe to the House what the nature of the bill was; but, in the first instance he felt it necessary to state what the law was, as it now existed. At pre-
 767 768 l 769 l l l
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, he had no objection to bring in the bill then, and discuss the measure on the second reading.; but he would be guided by the opinion of the House.
 Mr. Plummer  said, the hon. gentleman had observed, that the privileges granted to those companies were confined to thirty-one years, and that they were then liable to be revoked. But he believed the fact was, that the grants were in perpetual succession, and subject to redemption. They could not be interfered with, unless the king, in council, notified that some inconvenience arose from them. In that case, the grants might be redeemed; but it was provided, in that event, that no similar privilege should be given to any other party. The hon. gentleman was also in error with respect to the sum of money advanced. Those two companies had paid the large sum of 150,000 l l 770
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that when the question was first introduced it was very intricate; but the right hon. gentleman opposite had obviated the difficulties which had obstructed his comprehension. What could be more unjust than the old plan which was, that if a man wanted 100 tons of hemp, and went to a broker who thought proper to sell for 38 l l
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought the present companies ought to be protected, unless it could be proved that they had been hurtful. He was of opinion there were but few insurances but what could be effected at the underwriters at Lloyd's, even without the two companies; and that at present the public had all the advantages of the respectable firms in the city; for either one partner signed for the others, or a broker at Lloyd's signed for the whole, With respect to the charge of 25 per cent by the broker, the hon. gentleman must be in error; for the charge was only 5 per cent. He thought there was nothing before the House to justify the assertion that these companies had been hurtful, and that therefore, under the words of the act of parliament, they ought to be protected. The proper mode would be, to move for a committee, to inquire if they had been injurious, or to refer it to some other competent tribunal.
 Mr. T. Wilson  could never promise his support to any measure of parliamentary reform until brought forward in a tangible shape, by way of complaint against some stated grievance or abuse.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, if he thought the bill injurious to the commerce of the
 757 758 l l l 759
 Mr. Huskisson  expressed his regret that the subject was brought forward in the absence of the chancellor of the Exchequer, who, although his opinion was on record respecting the monoply in the hands of the two chartered companies, yet ought to have an opportunity of hearing all that could be said by the opponents of the measure. The chartered companies in question must have been founded on this principle—that it was desirable to give the public a greater security by the incorporation of companies, than they could enjoy by the conduct of the business of marine insurance by individuals. The first question therefore was, whether this main purpose had been answered? What proportion of the business had these companies monopolized? It appeared by the report of the committee of 1810, that of the whole business of marine insurance, they carried on only four parts in a hundred. It thus appeared, that not only ninety-six out of one hundred were deprived of that better security which the charter contemplated, but were deprived of the ordinary security which they would have enjoyed, if the charters had never existed—because, in that case, the insurers would have had the higher security of partnerships and joint-stock companies. The result therefore was, that, although four out of one hundred had the higher security of a corporation, ninety-six out of one hundred were in a much worse relative situation than they would otherwise have been. The advantage being so small, and the disadvantage so great, it certainly was competent to the legislature to inquire by what mode a correction of the inconvenience might be effected. The law by which the charters were granted, specified, that if within thirty-one years after the incorporation of the two companies it should be thought desirable to dissolve them, two years notice should be given of such a determination, and they should be repaid the sum they had advanced, namely, 150,000 l 772 773
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he very well recollected having given his feeble support to the celebrated petition for parliamentary reform brought up in 1792, and in all he had ever heard upon the subject, from that time up to the present, he had never heard the arguments of the petition answered. It was very truly said, that the metropolitan freeholders were not represented in
 756
 Sir L. Coffin  thought, that the reform of the petitioners began at the wrong end. They should first reform themselves.
 Sir J. Newport  thought the House and the country were greatly indebted to the right hon. gentleman for his exertions in promoting the commercial interests of the country.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he had already provided himself with as strong evidence in favour of the repeal of the Leather-tax, as could be furnished by the report of any committee. He therefore felt it his duty to forward his promised motion. His object was, to move the repeal of the whole of the duty on Leather. Should it be adopted, it was his intention to give such ample time for the change, as to render the payment of no drawback necessary; and to enable persons who might be disposed to do so, to make arrangements for combining the trades of currier and tanner. He should move "for leave to bring in a bill, to repeal the duty on Leather, from a time to be limited," meaning that time to be the 5th of July 1825. He thought this a moderate and reasonable course. He had taken up this tax because he thought that, in the whole list, there was none more defective in principle, or more injurious in application. It was defective in principle, because it interfered with the profitable application of capital, and prevented the union of trades which, for the interest of the community, ought to be combined; and, it was injurious in application, because it contributed so little to the Exchequer, and took so much from the pockets of the public. In consequence of the restrictions rendered necessary for the collection of the tax, while it yielded little more than 300,000 l l l 777 l l removed, 778 d 779
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the hon. gentleman who seconded the motion had thrown out a bait to him, by proposing a substitute for this tax; which substitute could not be resorted to without doing quite as much prejudice in one direction as it would do good in another. The hon. gentleman had suggested a license duty on the tanner to the amount of 50 l l l 781 l s d 782 l l
 Captain Maberly  said, that he had uniformly opposed what was called the sinking fund, believing it to be most prejudicial to the interests of the country. So long, therefore, as it was permitted to stand, he should be the advocate of a reduction of taxation to its amount. But, without touching this sinking fund, there was a mode of giving relief from this tax, without diminishing the present amount of revenue; and that was, by acceding to the motion of his hon. relation, for putting the tax upon beer on malt. That transposition would just save the amount which this tax covered, without diminishing the expenditure of the government. There was a special claim for reducing this tax. All taxes upon necessaries were declared to be bad by the ablest political economists. They tended to raise the price of labour, to diminish profit, and force capital to seek employment in foreign countries. This tax offended against one of the first maxims of taxation; for it produced only 300,000 l l 784
 Mr. Maberly  entirely coincided in the reasons urged for the repeal, and thought the tax was one manifestly injurious to the public. He was particularly anxious to have all these restrictions abolished.
 Mr. Monck  said, the bill was calculated to interfere with the law of settlements
 789
 Mr. C. Wilson  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Hurst  supported the principle of the bill, and thought the objectionable parts might be new modelled in the committee.
 Mr. Bright  said, the principles of the bill were so defective, and the rules on which it proceeded so contrary to law, that he felt it necessary to oppose the measure.
 The Solicitor-General  expressed his intention to meet the bill with a direct negative.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that the bill was of the utmost importance to the maritime districts of the country. It would have the effect of overturning the law of settlement, so far as it regarded sea-faring individuals. It would operate a partial repeal of the Jaw of settlement with respect to mariners' apprentices. It might, perhaps, be proper to alter the law regarding apprentices; but if that law were to be interfered with, it would be wiser to take the whole law of apprentices into consideration, instead of confining their views to the law of maritime apprentices only. He objected to the bill being brought in at that period of the session.
 Mr. Bourne  wished the bill to be postponed; but thought the settlement of the apprentice should be in the port where the ship was registered.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  felt that the law as it affected the settlement of mariners' apprentices required revision, but thought it would be better to remodel it in the committee, and then let it remain over till next session."
 Mr. D. Gilbert  said, there were under the law as it now stood evils that required correction. He, however, did not press its immediate adoption.
 Mr. Curteis  did not feel disposed to press the measure. All he asked for was, that it should be considered in a committee. If it was found impracticable, let it be abandoned. He was inclined to think that the port where the ship was registered ought to be made the place of settlement for the apprentices of mariners.
 Mr. Fyshe Palmer  observed, that if the place of register was adopted, it would be
 790
 Mr. Monck  was so opposed to the measure in principle and detail, that he could not consent to withdraw his amendment.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  assured the House, that the subject had not escaped the notice of government, but had for some time been under its serious consideration. He had received, some time ago, a request from the merchants of Belfast to allow the formation of a joint-stock banking company in their town. He had referred it to the law-officers of the Crown, to determine how far any alteration in the existing state of the law respecting banking establishments in Ireland would affect the contract which existed between the public and the Bank of Ireland. He was not prepared to assert that many of the objects recommended were not attainable without a breach of that contract; but as he could not yet tell what the opinion of the law-officers might be, he could not give more than a limited consent to the proposition. If the law-officers should report that, to
 788
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  did not think the population of Ireland to be so concurrent and unanimous in favour of this measure, as his hon. friend had represented it to be. In many parts of Ireland there were great objections to establishments of this nature, in consequence of the results which had followed from establishments somewhat similar. In the south and west of Ireland, these establishments, instead of being either able or willing to advance capital upon new speculations, had swallowed up the greater part of the capital which had been acquired by old and successful commercial speculators.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  thought it somewhat hard on his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, that he should be called upon to show, not only that every tax which he thought it expedient to maintain was not oppressive, but that there was something in it peculiarly amiable and lovely. His right hon. friend was called upon to show, not that the con tinuance of a tax might be necessary in a financial point of view, but that it was eminently delightful that such a tax should subsist among the institutions of the country. After his right hon. friend had laid before the House his view of the finances of the country, and that view had received the sanction of parliament, it was somewhat unfair, unless the House were disposed to rescind its former decisions, to Call upon his right hon. friend to remit, in addition to all the reductions he had proposed, any tax which any honourable member might consider inconvenient or oppressive. This was the fourth or fifth motion of the kind which had been made, after the whole finances of the country had been brought under the consideration of the House. The repeal of the window-tax, the house-tax, the whole of the assessed taxes, and the tax on coals, had in this way been successively recommended to the House. His right hon. friend had candidly stated, that he did not defend this tax on principle; that he was not responsible for its imposition; and that he would be happy to propose its repeal, whenever he could do so consistently with considerations of paramount importance. He confessed that he felt some little difficulty in following the exact line of argument which had been taken by his hon. and gallant friend, who had been convinced in the course of this debate, and who intended to support the present motion, partly from his horror of tobacco, and partly from his love of cheap learning. His right hon. friend had declared, that he would rather repeal the tax on tobacco, than the tax on leather; not from any particular affection which he personally entertained for tobacco, for he was not aware that any part of his right hon. friend's person was polluted by that vegetable in the way his gallant friend had described; but because the tax on that article was greatly disproportioned to the value of the commodity, and consequently operated as a great encouragement to smuggling. His gallant friend had argued, that the tax on leather ought to be repealed, because the
 786
 Mr. Curteis  seconded the motion. By the repeal of this tax less injury would be done to the revenue, and more benefit to the public, than by the relinquishment of any duty upon the Statute-book. He recommended as a substitute, that a license duty, of 50 l
 Colonel Trench  expressed himself friendly to the object of this bill. Though it was a little irregular, he would take that opportunity of correcting a misrepresentation which had gone abroad, respecting what had fallen from him on a former night. A right hon. gentleman had quoted a Mr. Strickland, whom he stated to be an Irish landholder, as an example worthy the imitation of the other landholders of Ireland. He had risen to communicate to the House a point of which he was himself aware, namely, that Mr. Strickland was not an Irish country gentleman, but an agent appointed to superintend the embarrassed estate of a nobleman, who, from motives honourable to himself, had absented himself from the mansion of his ancestors. That nobleman had had the good fortune, and he would add the good sense, to place in the situation of his agent a gentleman whose example could not fail to produce a good effect. The nobleman to whom he alluded, as well as another nobleman to whom Ireland must always feel indebted-he meant the duke of Devonshire—had conferred a blessing upon their country, by substituting for their own presence, which they could not give, the presence, of such gentlemen as they had selected for their agents.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he was quite satisfied to leave the subject in the hands of the chancellor of the Exchequer, and would withdraw his motion.
 Mr. Dawson  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "to repeal the Act 29 Geo. 2. c. 16, for the regulation of Banking Establishments in Ireland." The object of the bill was, to repeal those acts which impeded the formation of banking companies in Ireland. The great want under which Ireland laboured at present was the absence of capital, to call
 787
 General Gascoyne , referring to certain evidence recently taken before the committee on the Hides and Skins bill, shewing, that if any, all the restrictions on the leather trade ought to be removed, asked if it would not be more expedient for the hon. member for Wareham to postpone his motion for the repeal of the Leather-Tax, at least for a few days?
 Mr. John Martin  defended the sinking fund, to the maintenance of which he thought parliament stood pledged in honour. He entirely approved of the measures taken by ministers for the reduction of taxes, and could not therefore vote for the motion.
 Mr. Leycester  said, that one objection to the tax was, that it cut up our foreign trade, for it imposed restrictions which prevented all economy in the manufacture of leather, and the preventing economy raised the price, so as to shut out the foreigner from our market. It had the effect of driving capital out of the country; an effect which was strikingly illustrated in the town with which he was connected. There were formerly three tanners in that town who had considerable business. At present, there was only one tanner with an unimproved trade; the two others had gone to America, where they were now thriving, though they would probably have starved had they remained in this country. Another objection to this tax was, that it conveyed infinitely Jess into the Exchequer than it took from the pockets of the people. Could any thing be more repugnant to sound principles of legislation? A still stronger objection to this tax was, that it pressed with peculiar hardship on those who were least able to bear it. The poor man paid a most unequal proportion of the tax on his shoes, and the
 780
 Sir George Hill , in reply to the question, felt it due to his own character, to the sincere respect he entertained for the House, and not less his duty to his constituents, the citizens of Derry, to answer the right hon. member's question clearly, explicitly, and without reserve. He had brought a bill into parliament, on the petition of the bishop and dean of Derry, and the parishioners of the parish in which the cathedral of Derry was situated. The grounds of this proceeding were, that no fund, except assessment by vestry, existed for the support of that cathedral. Of this fact he had been assured: he urged this reason to the House for proposing the bill to create a permanent fund. He had not anticipated the successful opposition which had been made to the second reading of the bill; and in order to be prepared to satisfy the committee upon the bill, that no fund at present existed, he had directed searches to be made in Ireland, to ascertain whether there was any record of land, tithe, or other property, having at any time been granted for the support of the Derry cathedral. Subsequent to the rejection of the bill, he received information, which induced him to believe, that funds at one period had existed for the support of that cathedral. He had communicated that information to his right hon. friend, the secretary of state for Ireland, to the bishop, dean, and chief magistrate, of Derry, and had the satisfaction to be assured by the secretary for Ireland, that the subject should be fully investigated, with a view to doing justice to all parties. He must add, that he was quite confident, not only that every facility would be given to the inquiry by the bishop and dean, but the most zealous assistance.
 Sir G. Robinson  supported the motion, believing the tax to be an impolitic one.
 Sir J. Yorke  expressed his astonishment that the chancellor of the Exchequer should have declared that he would sooner repeal the tax on tobacco, the use of which was so unnatural and which was offensive to the stomach, lungs, and nasal organs, than the tax on so necessary an article of consumption as leather, without which nobody could move. With respect to the effect of the reduction of taxation on prices, he must confess, that in the orbit in which he moved he had never had the good fortune to find any one article of consumption a jot cheaper. He would ask any gentleman who had a son at Eton or Westminster whether he found the slightest difference in the items of a tutor's bill. He should have been disposed to vote against the motion, had it not been for the statement, that white the tax on leather brought only 300,000 l l
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, he should vote for the repeal of this tax, particularly, as it was intended to extend to Ireland the restrictions which were found so injurious in England, and generally, because of the desire he felt to have the commodity as cheap as possible for the people of his own country.
 Sir J. Newport  entirely concurred in the necessity of the repeal of this tax, which drew from the pockets of the people a sum so much larger than it paid into the Exchequer. With reference to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman respecting the extension to Ireland of these restrictions, he begged of him to consider what had been the progress of the leather tax in that country. Before the Union, the tax produced 51,000 l
 Sir J. Newport , seeing a right hon. baronet in his place, begged to ask him, whether he was aware of the existence of any legal document to substantiate the claim of the bishop and dean of Londonderry, to certain lands, charged with the burthen of repairing the Cathedral Church of Derry.
 Lord Althorp  thought that one great
 783
 Mr. Byng  defended the conduct of the trustees, and contended, that there was no foundation for the charge against them; their only object being the improvement of the line of road under their superin-tendance.
 Dr. Lushington  rose to present a petition to which he requested the attention of the House, and particularly of ministers of his majesty's government. If the facts alleged were true, there never was a case which called more loudly for their interference; not only with a view to do justice to the oppressed, but also to punish the oppressors. The petition stated, that the petitioners are freemen of colour, natives of Kingston, in the island of Jamaica, where they had constantly resided; that they were married to women, also natives of that island, and had each four children—that they were engaged in business as liquor-merchants—that they held the rank of serjeants in the militia, in which they have served since the year 1813; and that they possessed property in the island, consisting of houses, land, and slaves: that about the latter end of September last, the petitioners underwent an examination before certain magistrates of Kingston as to the proofs they possessed of being British-born subjects, when they produced, in support of that fact, the certificates of their baptism, and other necessary documents— that on the 7th of October following, petitioners were apprehended, and carried to prison, for the purpose, as they were informed, of being summarily removed from the island of Jamaica, as aliens, and dangerous persons; but a writ of habeas corpus having been issued, on their application to the grand court of the island, their case underwent a full and minute investigation before Mr. Chief-justice Scarlett, and the two assistant judges, Mills and West, on the 25th of the same month; and the sentence pronounced by the court was, that the petitioners were both British-born subjects, and as such entitled to their discharge, and to the enjoyment of all their privileges as British citizens. He felt it incumbent on him to state to the House, that these petitioners were not persons of no estimation, in a low line of life, or un-
 797 798 799 800 801
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, he was not able to meet the statement of his learned friend, for want of particular information, as to the several matters contained in the petition. All that his majesty's ministers knew was, that the petitioners had been complained of to the magistrates of Kingston as being aliens, dangerous persons to the government, and engaged in a treasonable conspiracy against it. It was true that the duke of Manchester had put the alien act in force against them. It seemed to be equally true, that they had applied for writs of habeas corpus, which had been granted. But, his learned friend had admitted, that if these men were aliens, the magistracy of Jamaica were empowered by law to remove them from the island. The question, then, first seemed to be, whether the petitioners were or were not aliens. As to what had been stated of the proceedings in the court of King's-bench, that was merely an exparte proceeding, and the affidavits upon which the decision of the court of King's-bench had been formed could not be received as conclusive evidence of the fact of the petitioners being British-born subjects. He was ready to allow, that if it should appear they were not aliens, the government of Jamaica had incurred a most serious responsibility, and one in which it could neither be countenanced
 802
 Mr. W. Horton  explained, that between the first arrest and subsequent deportation of the petitioners, two facts had been established against them; first, that they were in truth aliens, notwithstanding what had appeared before the court of King's-bench; and, secondly, that they had been engaged in a treasonable conspiracy. The affidavits made in the first instance in favour of the petitioners might turn out to be false; and hence the court might have decided in error.
 Dr. Lushington  said, it was true that, on a subsequent trial in January, 1824, there was found a negro who stated that arms had been purchased of Lescesne.
 804
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the principle of the bill was; first, whether the duty on the importation of wool should be reduced at all; and secondly, whether the exportation of wool should be allowed at all. He had fully explained the principle of the measure in February last, and his right hon. friend (Mr. Huskisson) had afterwards gone over the same ground. Under these circumstances, he thought it would be most advisable to go into a committee, where the details of the measure might be discussed.
 Mr. S. Wortley  considered the principle of the hill to be ruinous to the agricultural interest. He was sorry to see that great interest neglected by gentlemen who were led away by their love of spinning-jennies. It was equally the interest of the manu-
 805
 Alderman Thompson  protested against the exportation of wool.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should confine himself to making such observations upon each of the clauses of the bill as appeared necessary to him. His proposition was, to repeal the import duty of 6 d 806 d d d
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he considered this clause to be consistent with sound policy, and to be absolutely necessary to placing the trade of the country upon a sound principle. The 10th of December was the clay which he had fixed for the cessation of these laws, being the same day on which he intended that the minimum of import duty should commence.
 Mr. S. Wortley  asked, whether any gentleman in that House, having the feelings of an Englishman, would stand up and say, that this country, having a raw material by which she was enabled to supply the world with a particular fabric, should give that article up without re-
 809 d
 Mr. C. Grant  said, that in adopting this measure, they were not departing from the ancient policy of this country, but were again returning to it. Until the period of the Restoration, it had been the almost in-variable policy of this country to allow wool to be exported, on the payment of a trifling duty. It was true, that at times prohibitions were introduced—sometimes to annoy sovereigns with whom we were at war, and at others, to allow our own sovereign to increase his private resources. But it was asked, why the regulation should be changed? Now, he contended, that the weight of proof rested with the gentleman who opposed this opening of the trade. Could any one reason be adduced for continuing the present system, except that stated by the hon. member for Yorkshire, that there was something so peculiar in the soil and climate of this country, that here only the long-woolled sheep could be reared? But, the was a fallacy. Twenty or thirty years ago, sheep, which it was supposed could only thrive on particular soils, had been reared on soils of a very different description. At one period, it was the general conviction, that the fine wool of the Spanish sheep could not grow in any country but Spain, and it was even asserted, that the long and painful journeys taken by those animals was essential to the excellence of
 811
 Mr. Bankes  wished to know if the hon. member meant to refer this petition to a select committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he certainly entertained doubts of the propriety of a part of the plan, but still it should be recollected, that the object uppermost with the government was the speedy erection of courts for the due despatch of public business. As to the question of taste, where no two persons could be brought to agree upon one point he would not pretend to give an opinion. It was due to Mr. Soane to state, that the lords of the Treasury had sanctioned his design.
 Mr. Curteis  hoped that the chancellor of the Exchequer, if he determined to repeal these duties, would not allow a drawback. He considered the manufacturers not to be at all entitled to it.
 Mr. Curteis  insisted that the bill aimed a severe blow at the agricultural interest. The measure was the first-fruits of the new school of philosophy which had lately sprung up respecting free trade. All that he desired on the part of the agricultural interest was, that they might be protected against an inundation of foreign wool. He would therefore move, "that the bill be committed on that day six months."
 Mr. Littleton  replied in the negative, and said, that if he had been in the House when the late select committee was appointed, he should have opposed it; for he did not think that the public interests
 815
 Mr. Littleton  presented a petition from Mr. Soane, the architect, complaining, that an undue responsibility had been cast upon him, respecting the for the new buildings in Palace had, and also that the arrangements which he had provided for those engaged in the new courts of law, would be rendered, in a great degree, nugatory, if the recommendation of the late committee were carried into effect. Mr. Soane stated, that by order of the lords of the Treasury, he made a survey for the new buildings in Palace-yard, in 1821, and sent in his plan to the Treasury soon after. That it was then referred to the judges of the respective courts, and, after some alterations, adopted in consequence of that reference, ultimately approved of by the lords of the Treasury, and ordered to be carried into effect. Mr. Soane was therefore anxious, for his own professional reputation, that it should be known that he had gone on, step by step, under the sanction of the lords of the Treasury; and with reference to the recommendation of the late committee, he had to point out, that if that were carried into effect, and particularly in the erection of what was called the Tudor tower at the corner, all the arrangements which he had provided for a law library, for barristers, and attornies, as well as for the judges themselves, would be impeded and rendered useless.
 Mr. Bright  complained, that the port of Bristol did not contain sufficient room for the warehousing of bonded wool, and called upon the chancellor of the Exchequer to frame a clause, which would make a distinction between wools in bonded warehouses, which had not paid the duty, and which would therefore come out duty free, and wools, which, being in merchants warehouses, must have paid the duty, and must consequently subject the owners of them to loss, if their case was not specially considered. He contended, that the chancellor of the Exchequer ought to pay back the duty upon such wool as was unsold in merchants' warehouses, on the days mentioned.
 Mr. Brougham  asked, if the duke of Manchester had obtained subsequent information, why the question had not been brought again before the court of King's-bench? Suppose the subsequent information were true, why had not the parties been tried? Why send them off without a moment's warning? If the accused had confessed all that was laid to their charge, did it authorise the governor to send them away without trial?
 Mr. Brougham  was truly sorry that the hon. gentleman was not prepared with a fuller explanation, if not a contradiction, of the statements contained in the petition. From the information of which he was in possession, it appeared, however, that the governor of Jamaica had arrested two persons, whose alienship had come in question before the supreme court of judicature in that island. And here he begged to set the hon. gentleman right in one of the facts he had stated. The inquiry before the court was not an exparte proceeding. The duke of Manchester was there present, represented by his attorney-general, to examine the proof which was offered. It was in the discretion of the court to pronounce upon the arguments against, as well as for the parties accused. Upon that inquiry, however, the certificates of the baptism of these supposed aliens were produced, and proved that they were born at Kingston. The attorney-general's objections were heard; and the court resolved, that the petitioners were not aliens, but British-born subjects. After the lapse of a few weeks, during which the duke of Manchester had acquiesced in the decision of the court: he, having heard some other matters alleged against the petitioners, as he (Mr. B.) was bound in charity to suppose he had, ordered them again to be arrested, and sent away from the island without permitting them to receive the ad-
 803
 Mr. Benett  contended, that if the chancellor of the Exchequer consented to give the manufacturer a drawback upon the wool which he had on hand, he ought also to give the farmer a drawback upon the wool which he had on his sheep's back, and the linen-draper a drawback upon all the manufactured wool he had in his shop.
 Mr. Benett  wished the duties on the importation and exportation of wool to be equalized.
 Mr. Grossett  said, he had been informed by letters from Jamaica, that one of the petitioners (Lecesne) was supposed to be the person who had supplied the rebellious negroes with arms. It seemed that the negroes of the northern parts of the island had contributed money, as was supposed, for a missionary; but which was afterwards devoted to the purchase of about 20 stands of arms, conveyed across the island to the parishes of St. Mary and St. George; and there was at least a strong imputation against the petitioner that it was by him those arms hail been furnished.
 Mr. Hume  replied, that his hon. friend must be wholly ignorant of the matter;
 796 l.
 Mr. Hume  presented the following Petition:
 Mr. Hume  brought up the Report of the Select Committee on Artisans and Machinery. In moving that it be printed, he said, that the committee had directed their attention chiefly to the subject of the combination laws, to the permission to artisans to quit the country, and to the permission to export machinery; upon which they had come to the following resolutions:—
 
 1. "That it appears, by the evidence before the committee, that combinations of workmen have taken place in England, Scotland, and Ireland, often to a great extent, to raise and keep up their wages, to regulate their hours of working, and to impose restrictions on the masters, respecting apprentices or others whom they might think proper to employ; and that, at the time the evidence was taken, combinations were in existence, attended with strikes or suspension of work; and that the laws have not hitherto been effectual to pre-vent such combinations. 2. "That serious breaches of the peace and acts of violence, with strikes of the workmen, often for very long periods, have taken place, in consequence of, and arising out of the combinations of workmen, and been attended with loss to both the masters and the workmen, and with considerable inconvenience and injury to the community. 3. "That the masters have often united and combined to lower the rates of their workmen's wages, as well as to resist a demand for an increase, and to regulate their hours of working; and sometimes to discharge their workmen who would not consent to the conditions offer-
 812 4. "That prosecutions have frequently been carried on, under the Statute and the Common Law against the workmen, and many of them have suffered different periods of imprisonment for combining and conspiring to raise their wages, or to resist their reduction, and to regulate their hours of working. 5. "That several instances have been stated to the committee, of prosecutions against masters for combining to lower wages, and to regulate the hours of working; but no instance has been adduced of any master having been punished for that offence. 6. "That the laws have not only not been efficient to prevent combinations, cither of masters or workmen; but, on the contrary, have, in the opinion of many of both parties, had a tendency to produce mutual irritation and distrust, and to give a violent character to the combinations, and to render them highly dangerous to the peace of the community. 7. "That it is the opinion of this committee, that masters and workmen should be freed from such restrictions, as regard the rate of wages and the hours of working, and be left at perfect liberty to make such agreements as they may mutually think proper. 8. "That, therefore, the statute laws that interfere in these particulars between masters and workmen, should be repealed; and also, that the common law, under which a peaceable meeting of masters or workmen may be prosecuted as a conspiracy, should be altered. 9. "That the committee regret to find from the evidence, that societies, legally enrolled as benefit societies, have been frequently made the cloak, under which funds have been raised for the support of combinations and strikes, attended with acts of violence and intimidation; and without recommending any specific course, they wish to call the attention of the House to the frequent perversion of these institutions from their avowed and legitimate objects. 10. "That the practice of settling disputes by arbitration between masters and workmen, has been attended with good effects; and it is desirable that the laws which direct and regulate arbitration, should be consolidated, amended, and made applicable to all trades. 813 11. "That it is absolutely necessary, when repealing the combination laws, to enact such a law as may efficiently, and by summary process, punish either workmen or masters who by threats, intimidation, or acts of violence, should interfere with that perfect freedom which ought to be allowed to each party, of employing his labour or capital in the manner he may deem most advantageous,"
 Mr. Hart Davis  contended, that the measure was both partial and unjust. If the exportation of long wool were permitted, the manufacturers of Germany would soon rival us in the manufacture of it. Indeed, several large orders for it had been already transmitted to this country from Germany, under the idea, that the laws prohibiting the exportation of this kind of wool would be immediately repealed.
 Mr. Hart Davis  contended, that gross partiality had been shown to the silk-trade, and gross neglect to the wool-trade, though it was the great staple of the country. 500,000 l 807
 Mr. Denman  admitted that external propriety was a matter of great consequence as connected with the national taste. It was highly important, however, when they were considering this matter, to reflect upon the vote of 300,000 l
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, he had listened with some impatience to hear a single argument infavour of the export of long wool. Indeed, it would be somewhat difficult to prove to the conviction of any man, that an article of home growth, essential to our own manufactures, and the whole of which was thus employed, could beneficially be sent to foreigners.
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought it unwise to allow the exportation of long wool to countries which showed no disposition to make concessions on matters of trade to us. Every pound of wool exported would be mixed with three or four pounds of other wool, not the produce of this country.
 Mr. W. Whitmore  felt persuaded, that if the principle of the proposed clause was carried into effect, it would give origin and support to a most beneficial trade, the advantages of which no man could anticipate. He meant the export of woollen yarn. The superiority of this country in machinery would give a strength and extension to that branch of manufacture which would be felt throughout the great interests of our agricultural and commercial system. The government of this country were proceeding on such sound and enlightened views, that he sincerely hoped the House of Commons would afford its concurrence, in order to enable them to carry into effect these propositions. There was, however, one mistake rather general through the House and the country, on which it was necessary that the fullest inquiry should be made, in order to correct it. It was assumed, that the prosperity of the woollen manufacture was owing to the prohibitory system; particularly of the exportation of the long wool. What did the history of
 808
 Sir G. Shiffner  supported the measure, and wished the landed and manufacturing interests to go hand in hand.
 Mr. Scarlett  thought the exterior of the new building was a disgrace to the national taste, and ought to be taken down. He suggested, that the old bail court of the duchy of Lancaster might be rendered more commodious and available for some of the accommodations required by Mr. Soane, in the place of other arrangements, which he contemplated.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that Mr. Soane's petition clearly showed, that he had acted under the authority of the lords of the Treasury.
 Lord Milton  said, that in his opinion, all classes would ultimately reap advantage from the measure. His hon. colleague objected to the measure, because he saw no reciprocity in it; since other countries did not show any disposition to extend to us the measure of liberality which we were about to extend to them; but, surely, there was not a merchant who would send any valuable commodity abroad, without bringing home something valuable in return. Thus it was that
 810
 Lord Milton , from all that he had been able to collect on the subject, considered it one of the wisest measures that could be adopted. Those who represented the agricultural interest in that House took an erroneous view of the question. He believed that the free importation of wool into this country would be attended with the most beneficial results.
 Mr. Grenfell  begged to know what security the public had with respect to these companies? If, for instance, a Secretary or other public officer of such company were to be proceeded against, and a verdict obtained, he wished to know how far the company, individually or collectively, were liable?
 Mr. Maberly  opposed the motion. He said he was most anxious for the appointment next session of a committee, to consider fully the whole question respecting the beer trade. The present bill professed to have two great objects: one was, to put the duty more upon malt, and the other to open the trade for a free competition; still, however, the operation of the bill would be, that one class would be paying a duty of 55 s s 844
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that as it was now agreed, that every thing that related to the change of duties, should be taken out of the bill, he should say nothing on that subject. Indeed, he was at a loss to know what should be discussed in the committee; because, as the price of beer would be lowered by the bill, that sufficiently established the advantages that would result from it. The mere fact, that the price would be lowered, proved that the beer was now at a higher price than was necessary. A committee was needed, it might be said, to show the loss to what had been called vested interests. He conceived it possible that some diminution of profit might be occasioned by the bill; but if that was admitted, was it to be a conclusive bar to an alteration of the law. The state of the law demanded some change; for it was extremely doubtful whether the brewers might not even now retail beer in the manner authorized by this bill. In the last session the hon. member for Reading (Mr. F. Palmer) had asked him, whether there was any obstacle to brewers selling by retail; and he had answered, that there was not, as far as the Excise was concerned. The same answer was given in a more formal manner, on an application to the Board of Excise. In consequence of that, a number of brewers had set up trade in that way; prosecutions were commenced against them, both at Reading and Brentford; and convictions were obtained. Without being a lawyer, he confessed he did not see how those convictions were sustainable on ground of reason. The convictions were brought by the parties concerned into the court of King's-bench, and were to have been argued the first term of this year, but were put off to the present term for further argument. Now, the state of the law was at. least so doubtful, that the
 845
 Mr. F. Palmer  said, he anticipated from this measure more good to the mechanics, tradesmen, and to the mass of the people, than from any other measure that could be introduced into the House. A strong proof of the advantages of retail brewing was to be found in the fact, that barley had risen in price ever since the practice began. The great brewers of this country were a most enlightened and powerful body of men: he respected them much, but he had a duty to the public to perform. It was a fact, that the licensed victuallers and wholesale brewers would still have an advantage of 8½ per cent, over the retail brewers, whose competition they dreaded. He had been told, that it was no matter whether there were public or private brewers; as there were enough of them to produce competition. In answer to this he would state a fact. The public brewers met at the town of Wokingham periodically, from all the range of country from High Wycombe, through Maidenhead and Windsor to Guilford, to regulate how much work they should run, and at what price they should sell their beer. What, in such a state of things, became of competition? It was denied, that in genera' the brewers had monopolized the public-houses. All he could say was, that in the part of the country with which he was most acquainted, it was very rare to find a free house. He allowed, that much of the evil had arisen from the monstrous neglect of the magistracy. Where they had done their duty,
 847
 Sir J. Sebright  wished to see a fair competition in the beer trade. If a brewer brewed a good article at a fair price, he would be sure to obtain customers. If he did not, the public should have an opportunity of going elsewhere. Such a competition did not exist at present. In many districts the publicans were obliged to buy their beer from brewers, who, as there was no competition, had no inducement to make their article of a good quality. As a country gentleman, he returned his thanks to the right hon. gentleman for introducing a measure which would put an end to the existing monopoly.
 Colonel Davies  said, that a large capital had been embarked on the faith of existing acts of parliament; and, as a numerous class of persons would be ruined by the proposed measure, he should give his vote against it.
 Mr. Wodehouse  thought that a great deal of prejudice had gone forth with respect to the trade in beer. He should not
 850 l l
 Mr. Alderman Wood  denied that the public had called for the present measure. Two petitions only, from Reading and Newbury, in favour of the bill, had been laid on the table of the House. Amidst so many millions, therefore, of which the population of this country consisted, no more than 2,000 persons had come forward in its support. He admitted that this bill would enable the public to get the article cheap, but as to its being good, that was quite out of the question. The doctrine which had been preached up about free trade was all very fine. All he wished was, that the right hon. gentleman would do justice. The right hon. gentleman had abandoned his first bill for reducing the duty on malt from 37 s d s 851 s d
 Mr. Denison  thought the country indebted to the right hon. gentleman, for having introduced a measure, the object of which was to supply the public with a better commodity at a cheaper rate. At the same time, it ought not to be forgotten, that it was calculated to injure a great body of industrious individuals. A largo capital had been embarked in the beer trade, on the faith of existing acts of parliament. Why should not the vested rights of this class of tradesmen be considered? The hon. member for Abingden did not object to the measure in toto. He had merely recommended a committee which might inquire into the whole subject, and endeavour in the next session to reconcile the interests of the publicans with those of the public. He should, for these reasons, vote for the amendment.
 The Attorney-General  thought that as the House had decided in favour of the clause of compensation, it ought not now to be called upon to exclude it. He had no knowledge of more than one of the parties whose names were introduced into the bill; but their offices had all the characteristics of freehold property. If a great public work were to be undertaken; if docks were to be excavated, or bridges to be built; persons having freehold property which was injured, had an acknowledged right to remuneration. The same reasoning applied to the bill upon the table; and he adduced the authority of the Finance committee to show, that the holders of freehold offices, for which they had given valuable consideration, had a just claim to indemnity. He found the clause he had proposed in several preceding bills; particularly in one for regulating the court of Exchequer in Ireland. These fees were freehold property, as much so as the estates of gentlemen in that House; and the right to them had been purchased under the sanction of the law. If the whole jurisdiction of the bench were abolished, it surely must be evident, that a compensation ought to be made to the officers; and as this bill went to take away part of the jurisdiction, there was a right to compensation, as far as the emoluments were destroyed.
 Mr. R. Smith  thought the House would acquit the noble mover of the bill of any intention to increase unduly the influence of the Crown; but the truth was, that it was better to give the patronage of the places in question to government at once, in its responsible capacity, than to leave them to be got at by jobbing.
 Mr. C. Calvert  said, there was not a word in the evidence to bear out the assertion. There was no such practice as that of brewing two sorts of beer, one for the free houses, and the other for the brewers' houses.
 Mr. C. Calvert  said, the licensed victuallers were deeply interested in this measure, and as it was calculated to injure them, he deemed it his duty to oppose it. He did not generally oppose bills when going into a committee; but the present was a peculiar case. The right hon. gentleman had altered the title; he had altered the preamble; and now it appeared that he meant to strike out one-half of the measure. Under these circumstances, the right hon. gentleman ought to have the bill printed, so that individuals might come properly prepared for the final consideration of the measure. As it new stood, it would be the total ruin
 848
 Mr. Sykes  said, he was not disposed to throw any unnecessary powers into the hands of government, but, looking at the immense benefits to be derived from the bill, he could not consent to its being thrown out. The revision of the existing county courts suggested by the learned member did not meet the main object of the present measure; namely, that of bringing justice home to men at their doors. A farmer in Yorkshire might now travel, even to a county court, a hundred miles, and carry an attorney and witnesses with him, to recover a debt of 5 l
 Mr. Davenport  opposed the bill on account of the injury it would inflict on a numerous body of individuals, and because he thought it would lead to much immorality. Beer would be sold and drank in every lane and alley, and riot and disorder would be the consequence. At present the publican, in whose house beer was consumed, found it to be his interest to preserve peace and good order.
 Mr. Curteis  expressed his determination to vote for the amendment.
 Mr. Alderman Bridges  apprehended considerable inconvenience from the retail breweries. Persons would assemble to drink their beer in the neighbourhood of these retail shops, where they might commit disorders, which were less likely to take place in the houses of publicans, as they were under the control of the magistrates. He thought the bill was fraught with evils of great magnitude.
 Mr. Lock hart , as chairman of the committee to which allusion had been made, wished to say, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had stated very correctly the view which that committee had taken of the question. They recommended magistrates, whenever they saw brewers purchasing all the public-houses in a neighbourhood, and heard the people complain of being supplied with a bad article, to open free-houses, for the purpose of ensuring competition. He contended, that the poor derived benefit from the encouragement now given to
 846
 Mr. Bright  admitted, that there might be precedents, both modern and ancient, for the proposition of the learned gentleman; but surely the House could not consent, on account of precedents, to give up its inherent power and right to modify the judicial institutions, without being bound to consult the convenience of those who held offices, which could only be properly held for the public advantage. But, were there not precedents also on the other side? What compensation did the legislature award to those who lost their fees and emoluments by the reduction of the Star Chamber? As to the particular clause, it had been brought in late in the proceedings on the bill, and contrary to the best practice of the House. The proper place for the discussion of it would have been in a committee, where the pow-
 856
 Mr. Curwen  said, that when he considered the great advantages which the public at large would derive from this measure, it was impossible for him not to support the bill. The consequence of the existing monopoly had been such a deterioration of the malt liquor, as to render it almost unfit to drink.
 Mr. Mansfield  said, it was his intention originally to have voted against the bill; but it had been so modified, as to remove the objections which he had to it. As it now stood, it would enable the labouring classes to drink a better commodity at a greatly reduced price.
 Mr. Monck  read an extract from the report, to show that the committee had stated that disgraceful practices existed in the beer trade.
 Mr. Monck  said, it could not be fairly contended that this measure introduced an alteration of the law, which had not been duly considered, after the valuable report of the committee which sat on this subject. That report proved that the greatest abuses existed in the beer trade. Mr. Barclay, who gave evidence before that committee declared, that for his own part, considering the subject in an extended point of view, he was perfectly willing to assist in opening the trade. He served a great number of free houses. Many of these Houses were offered to him for purchase, which he declined, because he thought he had embarked sufficient capital in the trade, and they had been bought up by other brewers. The system of buying up free-houses had been carried by brewers to an extent, which operated most injuriously to the interests of the public. Mr. Barclay, in his endeavours to open the trade, had no other wish than to serve the public with a good article at a fair and reasonable price. The brewers themselves were interested in the success of the present measure; for their own characters would rise in proportion as the quality of their beer was improved. There was this difference between the English-and Scotch
 849
 Mr. Wells  was certain, that no London brewer would condescend to sell different sorts of beer to different classes of his customers. He was satisfied that this measure would not only be ruinous to a numerous class of tradesmen, but of no advantage to the public.
 Mr. J. Williams  contended, that the measure, besides being inadequate to the objects proposed by it, would have the effect not only of adding to the influence of the Crown (already too great), but of destroying the independence of that profession to which he had the fortune to belong. If the independence of the bar was of importance to the country, he implored the House to pause before they gave their sanction to this bill. Here was a measure which held out twenty lucrative places to young men of five years standing. If a calculation made a few days ago were true, one half of the barristers in England held appointments. Add, then, to these this fresh bait of 800 l
 Mr. Butterworth  observed, that great injury to public morals would arise from allowing persons to assemble for the purpose of drinking beer without the control of magistrates.
 Mr. N. Calvert  also objected to the clause. It had been got up in haste, and names had been inserted at random.
 Mr. Whitbread  said, that, being connected with one of the great. London breweries, he should, as a matter of taste, have abstained from voting altogether; but when he considered, that a great number of his constituents were licensed victuallers, who were most unjustly treated by the bill, he should, for their sake, and not for his own, vote against the bill.
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, if the bill only destroyed the monopoly of the brewers, he should concur with the hon. gentleman; but he thought the case of the licensed victuallers was entitled to every consideration. If they were relieved from the heavy duties and other burthens that pressed on them, the case might be different; but the advantages they enjoyed should not be taken away, while their disadvantages remained. He anticipated, too, considerable inconvenience from the assemblage at the doors of the brewers, of the persons who would resort thither for their beer, to the great inconvenience of passengers.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that as he understood it, under these bills of incorporation, in case of judgments obtained against the treasurer, and their not being made good, the individuals who might obtain the verdicts would be at liberty to select
 843
 Sir E. Knatchbull  was of opinion, that the interests of the publicans, who had petitioned the House so strongly against the measure, ought to be fairly considered. When the right hon. gentleman first brought forward the subject, he had said, that he would considerably reduce the scale of licence duties. However, according to this bill, the publican would not be benefitted by the alteration in those duties. In two years' time the additional duties, which were laid on during a period of war, would expire of themselves; while the duties imposed by this bill were of a permanent nature.
 Mr. Scarlett  rose to oppose the passing of the measure. He gave full credit, he said, to the noble lord with whom it had originated, for talent and intention; and he was far from wishing to oppose any course which tended to the cheap and easy recovery of small debts; but he thought that the bill, in its present shape, was decidedly objectionable, and that if it went to get rid of some evils, it created evils which were greater. In the detail of the measure there were circumstances to which he objected. In the first place, it would entirety destroy the existing county courts. Those courts were held at present by the clerks of the peace for counties; but the fees taken in them were so trifling, that when the business was diminished, there would be no fund left sufficient to repay a competent person for doing the duty. This objection, however, he did not rely upon in so late a stage of the bill; nor even upon several others, which might fairly be taken to its operation in practice. The strong ground upon which he opposed its being read a third time, was his aversion to the principle upon which it proceeded. The effect of the bill was, to introduce into general practice that principle of examining parties in their own causes, which was most abhorrent to the
 853 l l l l
 Lord Althorp  admitted the difficulties with which the case was beset. As there were 150 places, however, already in the power of the Crown, to be given away among 300 practising barristers, the additional 20 would not materially increase the influence of government with the bar. The noble lord cited the recent case of a motion in the court of Common Pleas, "Emery v. Browne." In that case it appeared, that a poor widow had sought to recover a debt of 4 l s l
 Lord Althorp  said, he saw no necessity for compensation; and it seemed quite
 855
 Sir J. Graham  said, that the committee on the bill had already closed their labours and were about to make their report, and the hearing of counsel would only protract their sitting unnecessarily.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, it appeared to him that great injustice would be done if the petitioners were not allowed to be heard by counsel against the bill. He looked with extreme suspicion at those companies where there was a pretence of benevolence mixed up with them. There was a kind of benevolent trading about them which he did not like. Some of the original subscribers, he understood had already turned their benevolence to good account, by selling their shares at a considerable premium. He was the more induced to look at the bill with jealousy, because it was directed
 858
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the very able manner in which the hon. member had stated the petitioner's case, had rendered the subject even more intelligible than if the whole petition had been read to the House. He should follow the example of the hon. member, and confine himself strictly to the statements in the petition; for he held the general question respecting the press of India to be too extensive in its bearings to be dealt with in a discussion thus incidentally introduced, and when the House
 866 867 868
 Sir F. Burdett  commenced his speech, by deprecating, in the strongest terms, the wanton act of tyranny which had been committed against Mr. Buckingham. That gentleman's case, he was bound to say, struck him as one of the most cruel that bad ever come before the House; and his principle motive for rising was, to entreat his hon. friend near him, not to rest contented with pledging himself, in the next session, to discuss the general question of a free press for India, but to give the petitioner, during the present session, the advantage of his talents, in a motion specifically directed to the hardship of his case. The question before the House resolved itself into two considerations. There was the great question of a free press in India; but first came the obligation of investigating the severe
 875 876
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that he did not rise to detain the House by any discussion on a topic which, by common consent, was reserved for a distinct consideration. The House would agree with him, that the great question of the liberty
 877 878 879 880 881 882 883
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he rose to oppose the motion, because it went to attack, not only the revenues, but the character of the church of Ireland. He felt quite sure that his right hon. friend, in setting about a reform of what he conceived to be abuses in the church of Ireland, was actuated by the purest motives: and he felt equally sure, that he should receive his serious attention, while he endeavoured to shew, that the present charge was unfounded. The right hon. baronet had, throughout the whole of his speech, assumed a certain fact, and then argued upon that fact, as if it had been proved, He had taken it for granted, that the statute of Henry 8th, and the act of queen Anne, meant to give to this fund the full annual value of every ecclesiastical benefice. If this
 894 895 896
 Sir Charles Forbes  begged the attention of the House to the contents of two letters which he had received from a very intelligent and most respectable British resident at Calcutta, Mr. John Palmer, on the subject of the treatment that Mr. Buckingham had met with. With respect to the great question of the freedom of the press in India, he (sir C. F.) was not then prepared to say, that under all the circumstances, he would give his support to a wholly unrestricted press in that part of the British dominions. At the same time, he had no hesitation in saying that the present restrictions on public discussion, were as unnecessary as they were impolitic. It was indeed too true, that the governments in India were apt to look with considerable jealousy at any public discussion of their own acts. They considered it the height of arrogance and presumption in any person to dare to comment on what they thought proper to do. But, the extraordinary power of deportation was what he most complained of. And yet, it was too frequently held out as a menace, not alone to British residents, but to the natives of the country living under British law. He had known a native merchant menaced with the punishment of deportation on no other imputation than that of having made a beneficial bargain with the government of Bombay, and having refused to abandon his contract at the mandate of the government. With a spirit worthy of a man who valued the security of British law, the native of Bombay addressed himself to the governor of the presidency in these words:—"I have been threatened, without offence, with being sent away from this island. That such an order is untrue, I believe, for I know it is inconsistent with the rights of Englishmen, and the laws under which you govern." One word more on that tremendous power of deporting men from India. That power was originally granted with the view of preventing improper persons from getting into the interior of India and tampering with the Datives. He earnestly intreated the hon. member who had introduced the present question
 874
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that whatever explanation might be attempted by the hon. gentleman of the motion of the right hon. baronet, it was impossible not to see, that if it were not intended to convey an imputation upon the church of Ireland, it was at least very ill calculated to avoid it. It was meant to be said by it, that there was a default on the part of the church of Ireland; and in this respect it was contrasted and compared with the church of England. In the one country the clergy were niggardly; in the other, liberal. The real question before the House was a pure point of law. If the church of Ireland paid at present what the law required, it was free from imputation. The right hon. baronet had compared the sum paid by a benefice in Ireland with the sum paid by a benefice in England; but it was no more fair to put these in juxtaposition for the sake of drawing an injurious distinction, than it was fair to contrast the different amount of taxes paid by an in dividual of the same class in England and Ireland. Whatever the law was, it was the duty of the House to abide by it; and upon that point, he was content to rely upon the opinion of his right hon. friend. According to that opinion, the clergy of Ireland ought to be free from any further demands. He protested warmly against what had fallen from the
 898
 Mr. Lambton  felt that an apology was due from him to the House, for intruding upon them again, after the very able manner in which Mr. Buckingham's cause had been advocated by his hon. friends; but there were one or two points in the speeches of the right hon. gentlemen opposite which he should be wanting in duty to the individual whose petition he had undertaken to present to parliament if he were not to notice. With respect to any imputation on individuals, it was in the recollection of the House, whether at the very outset of his address to them on presenting the petition, and in the whole course of that address, he had not wholly disclaimed attributing corrupt or malicious motives to any one? He had stated the case with reference to its own merits. He had simply stated the facts which had occurred under Mr. Adam's temporary administration of the government of India without imputing to that gentleman, or to any one else, any improper motive whatever. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) however, talked as if his speech had been full of personal inculpation. He had a right to complain also of the way in which the right hon. gentleman had treated another of his statements. He had told the right hon. the president of the Board of Control in private, that all legal proceedings had been dropped by Mr. Buckingham. He had also endeavoured to impress that fact upon the House this evening. The death of Mr. Buckingham's solicitor, in India, and the unaccountable circumstance that his counsel, Mr. Ferguson (recently appointed advocate general under Mr. Adam) had omitted to send him the necessary documents and evidence, added to other considerations, had induced him to decline all further proceeding. If that had not been the case, he (Mr. L.) would certainly have abstained from presenting the petition. It had been contended, that Mr. Adam had only administered the power which belonged to the existing system. That he (Mr. L.) positively denied. It was one of Mr. Buckingham's strongest complaints. The system which Mr. Adam found on his accession to the temporary government of India was the system which the marquis of Hastings had
 888 889 890
 Mr. Lambton  spoke to the following effect: 859 l l l l l 860 861 862 l 863 864 l l 865
 Mr. Mansfield  presented a petition from certain Pawnbrokers of Leicester, praying that this bill might not be passed into a law: at least, not before the petitioners had been heard by their counsel against it.
 Mr. Hume  was sorry the right hon. gentleman and the hon. baronet below him had taken the course they had done on this occasion. There was no necessity to adduce testimony to private character, since no private character was assailed. No one had attacked the character of the individual in his civil station; but complaint was made of public acts immediately proceeding from him. After a lapse of two years, during which this transaction had been known, no answer was given to the charge. All the right hon. gentleman said, was that when a court of justice had decided, then he would be ready to discuss the question. In his opinion, the interests of the whole population of India called upon that House to pronounce an opinion on the great question now brought before them, without waiting till those legal proceedings were finished. The petitioner denied that he had that redress in his power, which the right hon. gentleman contended he had. The agent, who was to have sent over evidence from India, was dead. Mr. Buckingham wished to procure various documents, to follow up with effect the action which he had given security to prosecute. It was impossible to imagine the effect which the exercise of arbitrary power, now complained of, produced in a settlement. In this instance, ruin had followed every person who had attached himself to Mr. Buckingham, or espoused his cause. He hoped most sincerely that the extraordinary power now vested in the company's servants would never be renewed. Why should not the same principles by which Englishmen were governed when they proceeded to other colonies be extended to India? Was it an answer to the injustice of the existing system to say, that the governor general had the power to send any person he pleased out of the country? He denied that he had
 869 l 870 871
 Mr. Hume , in reference to what had been said by the right hon. and learned gentleman respecting the non-residents, as if he (Mr. H.) had made an erroneous report to the House, said he had only read the official returns made to the House by the bishops themselves. The supporters of the present motion denied that the clergy of Ireland had done what the law required. With regard to any supposed attack, he had never calumniated the ministers of the church of Ireland; he had objected merely to the existing system, and as it was bad, he was, of course, anxious for a change. The law might declare that the two churches should be the same; but, would any man of common observation and common sense affirm that there was no difference between them, in the manner in which the duty was performed, and a thousand other circumstances? The right hon. gentleman had concluded by saying, that the clergy of Ireland were never more zealous than at the present moment. "By their works shall ye know them." Had they added one proselyte to their flock? Had they not, on the contrary, year after year, so decreased in their numbers, that there was danger that they would, ere long, be reduced to nothing? Those who refused inquiry would, in the end, be found the worst enemies of the church.
 Mr. S. Whitbread  presented a similar petition from 97 pawnbrokers of London and Southward. The hon. member moved, that the petitioners be heard by counsel against the bill.
 Mr. S. Whitbread  said, he should persist in the motion, and could not help expressing a hope that the hon. member for Aberdeen would persist in his motion, for preventing any member having an interest in a private bill from sitting on a committee upon it.
 Mr. Denman  contended, that the concluding observations of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and the opening observations of the right hon. the president of the Board of Control were founded on a complete fallacy. The right hon. gentleman had mistated both the law and the fact. He seemed to suppose that Mr. Buckingham had contravened the Jaw, and that it was in consequence of that contravention he had been expelled from India. That was not the fact. Mr. Buckingham had contravened no Jaw; he had not even contravened the marquis of Hastings's regulations: for their existence was not known when Mr. Buckingham published in the Calcutta Journal that which had occasioned his banishment from India. But, the great error of the two right hon. gentlemen was, that they supposed Mr. Buckingham was availing himself of the act of parliament, which, it was supposed, prescribed the means by which he might remedy the injustice that he had suffered. When first Mr. Buckingham returned to this country, he had done him (Mr. D.) the honour to ask his opinion, as to the course of proceeding which it would be expedient for him to pursue. If he did not most conscientiously believe that all Mr. Buckingham's legal proceedings were relinquished, he would certainly not support, his present petition. If, on the contrary, Mr. Buckingham persevered in them, he would say that he disgraced himself. In the petition which his hon. friend had presented from Mr. Buckingham, the latter disclaimed all legal proceeding. If, after so solemn a disclaimer, Mr. Buckingham should nevertheless proceed, he (Mr. D.) would in no way be legally concerned on the subject. But, the fact was, that the allegation that Mr. Buckingham continued his legal suit, was only one of the reasons which were always discovered by those who wished to get rid of the complaints of any injured individual. Mr. Buckingham had no connexion with the leading members of that House. He had never sat in the same cabinet or at the came table with them. Of course, there-
 884 885 886 887
 Mr. Spring Rice  contended, that few speeches ever delivered within the walls of parliament were more ad captandum than that to which the House had just listened. No imputation rested upon the clergy of Ireland; and the right hon. baronet, neither by his speech nor by his motion, had intended to cast any imputation. The charge was not against the clergy, but against the government, which did not carry into effect the spirit and the letter of the statute. It was easy, indeed, out of doors to produce an effect, and in the House to influence a division, by inducing a belief that it was intended to fix a stigma upon a particular body; but, as one of the supporters of the motion, he denied any such intention directly or indirectly. He was as sincere a friend to the church establishment of Ireland as the right hon. and learned gentleman; and he thought he best proved his attachment to it, by advocating that species of reform which would extend the duties of the clergy. The attorney-general for Ireland had dwelt much upon the legal construction of the statutes; but if the interpretation he put upon them were correct, what was to become of the 950 benefices in Ireland, which at present did not contribute at all to the first fruits? Were they to be valued according to the rate of the reign of Elizabeth, or were they not to be valued at all? Up to a very late period it was perfectly clear, that the clergy of Ireland did not contribute to the support of the parochial schools. Was this usage good or bad, or was it consistent with the solemn oath that was taken?
 897
 Mr. Astell  said, that the object of the hon. gentleman who presented the petition was, to point out Mr. Buckingham as a much injured individual, and to fix on Mr. Adam the charge of having acted from premeditated malice. Now, he would show, that Mr. Buckingham's deportation did not originate in malice on the part of Mr. Adam. The hon. gentleman had traced the history of Mr. Buckingham down from 1818. He was then at Bombay; and, not being licensed, the government would not allow him to remain. He, however, was anxious to stop in India; and, no sooner were his wishes made known, than the directors granted him a license as a free mariner. A free mariner, he would observe, was a person who was allowed to navigate from port to port in India, to proceed upon his lawful business as master or mate of a ship; but the license did not give him the right to remain on shore. Mr. Buckingham went out as a merchant, and in 1818 he again returned to India. In November, 1818, he became editor of the "Calcutta Journal," and in May, 1819, he was warned by the government of Bengal, that he was liable to be removed, on account of certain articles which had appeared in his paper. On that occasion he expressed sorrow for having forfeited the countenance of the government, and the matter was passed over. In January, 1820, he again transgressed, and he a second time made an apology to the government. In November, 1820, he published a paragraph of so offensive a nature, as caused a fresh warning to be given, and he found it necessary once more to throw himself at the mercy of the government. In July, 1821, he was again informed, that he had incurred the displeasure of the government by the publication of an improper article. During all this period,
 872 873
 Sir John Newport  said, that the object of his motion, which respected the consideration of the First-Fruits Fund of Ireland, was to prevent a part of the legitimate revenue of the Irish church from sustaining further encroachments, after having been exposed to them through a long series of years. From the earliest periods of our history, the revenue called the First Fruits, had been paid by the clergy of the country; and this revenue was, by queen Anne, appropriated to the endowment and improvement of poor Irish benfices. These laudable and generous purposes would have been much better
 891 l l l l l l l l l l l l l 892 l l l l s d l s d l s d l s d l l l 893
 Sir W. De Crespigny  bore testimony to the humane character of Mr. Adam. From his knowledge of that gentleman, he believed him to be incapable of behaving harshly towards any one.
 Mr. S. Rice  presented a petition from Mr. Owen, of Lanark. The hon. member professed himself unable to see his way sufficiently clearly to warrant him in founding upon the petition any subsequent motion. He would, nevertheless, willingly lend his aid to any other hon. member who might feel inclined to do so.
 Mr. Alderman Heygate  said, that in the debate on this subject, though there had been a great difference of opinion on the Usury Laws themselves, the opinion of the House was unanimous as to the injustice and ineffectiveness of the penalties provided for a breach of them. As the members of the legal profession to whom he had applied had declined the task, he had been induced to frame a bill to amend the law as far as related to these penalties. His principle was briefly this. By the existing law, the forfeiture, and penalty, amounting to three times the principal sum, was out of all proportion to the degree of the offence. For example, if a man took 5 l. l., l., l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Kennedy,  in moving the order of the day for the second reading of this bill, for the purpose of withdrawing it, said, he owed it to himself to give a brief explanation. In withdrawing the bill, he did not wish it to be understood that he was to be prevented by any clamour that might be raised from prosecuting his object; but, on a subject so delicate as the Poor-laws, when a feeling was raised, no
 901 l.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the proposed measure had never received the slightest encouragement from any public body in Scotland; on the contrary, they all concurred in reprobating it. He strongly recommended the hon. member to pause before he again brought it forward.
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that with respect to the measure being a boon to the poor of Scotland, he could only observe, that the poor of Scotland themselves thought it a great grievance. The bill proposed by the hon. member was considered by all who had paid any attention to the interests of the poor, and who were in the habit of administering to their wants, to be most objectionable in principle.
 Colonel Trench  contended, that this visionary plan, if adopted, would destroy the very roots of society.
 Mr. W. Dundas  observed, that the poor of Scotland might be left wholly without resource if the system of assessments were abolished.
 Sir W. De Crespigny  said, he had advised Mr. Owen never to bring his plan again before parliament.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that he had expected to have heard from the hon. member a less objectionable motion than that with which he had concluded, and the returns to which would not, in point of fact, assist him in his ulterior object. The hon. member had said, that when these returns, with the names of the committing magistrates, were made, some individuals would be found who were unnecessarily rigorous in their commitments, and who were designated in their counties as "committing magistrates." He protested that be had never heard of such a distinct class of persons; but, what he principally rose to show was, that the returns called for would not raise the inference which the hon. member supposed, and would therefore be useless for his general argument. For instance, there were several prisons in England in which commitments in execution were only taken; and the hon. member must not confound such commitments in due execution of legal process with the summary commitments in the ordinary administration of magisterial duty. Then, again, the disproportion of commitments between one magistrate and another would not raise the inference of undue rigour in the committing magistrate. For instance, at this time of the year, whilst members were attending their duty in parliament, there must be other magistrates in the counties, whose returns in the discharge of their duty must necessarily be larger than those not so actively engaged, from local removals, without there being the slightest ground for supposing from the distinction, the undue exercise of power. When the hon. gentleman first brought this subject forward, he had said, that there was an immense disproportion between the commitments by police magistrates and by magistrates of the city of London. He (Mr. P.) had then thought, that a prima facie case had been made out against the stipendiary magistrates, and that they were the more responsible, be-
 906 907
 Lord Stanley  said, he should like to know who were the individuals who were designated "committing magistrates." He thought it unfair to throw out a general aspersion of this nature.
 Mr. F. Palmer  could not see that the motion cast any stigma on the magistrates. If there were any who did not do their duty, inquiry was desirable, to show who they were.
 Mr. Hubhouse  was at a loss to understand on what grounds the returns were refused. Was it not material for that House to be put in possession of the proportion between the number of commitments and convictions? Much had been said in praise of the unpaid magistracy; but he must say he did not think so highly of them. He would prefer a stipendiary magistracy, who would not think it above them to render an account of their conduct, to those unpaid magistrates who exhibited, on all occasions, such a noli-me-tangere disposition.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that if he entertained any doubt upon the expediency of adopting the hon. gentleman's recommendation with regard to the constitution of committees up stairs, it was not upon the soundness of the principle on which that recommendation was founded, for every body must concur with him in admitting that to the hon. gentleman; but he doubted very much whether a new standing order would at all remedy the evil complained of, and whether the adoption of the resolution submitted by the hon. gentleman would not rather leave the House in a worse situation, than establish it in a better, as to those committees. The right hon. gentleman then appealed to the chair in order to know, whether the rules of the House itself governed the proceedings of committees?
 Mr. S. Wortley  concurred in thinking, that the House would be rather diminishing the ground upon which it stood in regard to its committees of this nature, than gaining any better station, if it acceded to the proposition of the hon. gentleman. A popular feeling prevailed, that some al-
 916
 Mr. Grenfell  would beg to suggest to his hon. friend, after all that had been said, to withdraw his motion. But, at the same time that he suggested this, he would say, that the House and the country were indebted to his hon. friend for having brought it forward. From his own knowledge of the practice of one committee, at which he had attended for a considerable time, he would assert, that the mode of proceeding was not only a perversion, but a complete denial of justice. It was-quite hopeless, in many cases, to expect to carry anything against the views of particular parties. With the knowledge which the House now possessed on this subject, he did hope that some remedy would be speedily applied; and if the forms of the House, after the previous-question having been moved, would allow his hon. friend to withdraw his motion, he hoped he would do so, and move that a select committee be appointed to inquire into the evil, with the view of applying some remedy. Some such course was absolutely necessary to rescue the House of Commons from the disgrace which would otherwise attach to them, from the mode in which business was conducted in some of their committees up stairs. From what he had seen of the practice in some committees, he would say—Let a private bill be brought in on the first day of a session, and let that session be the longest known in the history of parliament, and he would undertake (provided he got money enough) to prevent that bill from passing, by the delays which he could, according to the present practice, occasion in its progress. He had known an instance, in a committee, of a counsel speaking for five hours and a half on one point, and another speaking two hours and a half on the same point; and let the House understand, that this mode of pro-
 917
 Lord Stanley  thought that a great deal of inconvenience was created by the inattention of members who were nominated on private committees. He had recently witnessed the inconvenience produced by the non-attendance of members on private committees.
 Mr. B. Wilbraham  recommended the hon. member to withdraw his motion, and to move for a select committee to inquire into the evil complained of. He would not, however, wish that such committee should be delayed till next session.
 Mr. Plunkett  said, he must object to the clause. Though he was strenuously opposed to any interference with the property of the church, he did not carry that opposition to the extent of denying that there might be a beneficial modification with respect to pluralities. Should his right hon. friend introduce any measure of that nature, he should be most happy to give it his support, so far as a sense of public duty would permit. But his right hon. friend must be aware, that his clause
 919 l.
 Mr. L. Forster  objected to it, as a direct infraction of the spirit and letter of the corn laws, which were designed to protect the British grower against the competition of any grain coming from abroad, which had not been charged with a weight of taxation equal to that which fell upon wheat of British growth.
 Mr. Huskisson,  thought under all the circumstances of the case, it would be wiser to adopt the proposed clause, and thus admit the Canadian wheat now in this country, by degrees, than to allow it to come all at once into the market, as it in all probability, must do by the 15th of August next.
 Mr. Ellice  also wished the motion to be withdrawn, and that his hon. friend should give notice of a motion on the subject for next session.
 Mr. Canning  resumed. He said, he had always understood, that the rule of proceeding on committees, must depend, in a great measure, upon the circumstances of the individual case. The rule might exclude, he thought, in many cases where it could be shewn that the interests of members on a committee were concerned in the bill under their consideration; but the question—the difficult question— would always remain, as to who should be admissible members, and who should not? Now, he took it, that no order of the House could solve that difficulty; but that the matter out of which the abuse arose—and an abuse it certainly was, in the case put by the hon. gentleman—must be left generally to the honour and the feeling of members. So in questions of contested elections; he apprehended, that however members, almost all of them, might be imagined to be influenced on one side or the other, it was always to be supposed, that such questions would be decided upon principles of honour and justice There seemed to be no difficulty in supporting the mere theoretic principle, which was so properly contended for; but a vast deal of difficulty in enforcing its application. The principle, as he had
 915
 Mr. Canning  said, he would withdraw his amendment, in order to give the hon. member an opportunity of withdrawing his motion; but he would recommend him to attend to give a notice of motion for next session, rather than the present, as the committee would then have sufficient time for going fully into the question.
 Mr. H. Sumner  thought the motion would be ineffectual, unless the commitments were returned with a specification of the circumstances of each case; but no man would undertake the arduous duties of a magistrate if his character were to be subjected to this kind of suspicion.
 Mr. Goulburn  strongly opposed the clause, which could not, he said, be tacked on thus slightly to a clergy-residence bill, but ought, if adopted at all, to be made a specific subject of legislation.
 Mr. Twiss  observed, that as there was no charge against the magistracy, there was no necessity for the returns, to grant which implied an accusation.
 Mr. Curwen  said, if he thought there was any intention of casting an imputation on the magistrates, he should not give the motion his assent.
 Mr. Lockhart  thought that the motion should not be entertained, unless good reason were first shown.
 Mr. Monck  said, that this information was necessary, if it were merely with a view to statistical information. It was desirable that the House should know the amount of crime, and whether it was on the increase or not. The number of summary convictions, too, was important; for as that mode of proceeding was a supersession of the common-law, it was essential to observe its operation.
 Mr. Hume  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move a standing order, that no member having an interest in a Private Bill should be allowed to vote on the committee on that Bill. He had been strongly impressed with the impropriety of the existing practice, not merely during the present session, but for many sessions. It had gone on from worse to worse, until, at length, it had arrived to an extent of injustice and evil which could no longer be tolerated. The House were bound to interfere in order to do justice to the parties before them, and to render their proceedings respected. The business in committees above stairs was no longer a question of justice between the parties; it was one merely of canvas and influence. It was very common, even in the House itself, to see members remain out of it
 911 912 913 l. l. l. 914
 Mr. Hume  said, that after what he had heard, he had no objection to withdraw his motion; and in lieu of it, to submit a motion for a committee to inquire into the subject.
 Mr. Hume  said, he rose to bring forward his promised motion for a return of the Commitments by magistrates, in certain districts, together with the names of the magistrates by whom such commitments were made. He understood that objections were made to returning the names of the magistrates, unless in specified cases, where it could be shewn they were necessary. To this he answered, that there was an opinion abroad that a certain set of gentlemen in the magistracy were convicting magistrates—that was to say, that any culprits brought before certain magistrates stood little or no chance of escaping being committed. New, he felt, that if the commitment were a just one, no objection could be urged to giving the name of the magistrate, and if unjust, then the name of the magistrate became absolutely necessary. He wished to obtain correct returns, in order to ascertain the causes of the disproportion between the commitments and convictions in the city of London, and in the county of Middlesex, and which disproportion was highly to the credit of the former. The returns already on the table were very imperfect; but if they had been made out
 903 904 905
 Mr. Hume  said, that all he wanted was sufficient data on which to form a just conclusion. A very unfair construction had been put upon what he had said respecting committing magistrates. He did not mean by that expression those who committed the greatest number of pri-
 909
 Mr. Hume  said, there was such an esprit de corps in the country gentlemen, that he never knew an instance of inquiry being called for into the conduct of magistrates, that they were not immediately up in arms to stifle all investigation. It had certainly been his understanding when he submitted to withdraw his motion, that the right hon. gentleman would give him the information corrected according to his own statement. He would now move for returns of the number of persons charged with criminal offences in Ireland, and committed in the years 1822 and 1823, excepting such as were committed under the Insurrection act.
 Mr. Denman  did think that his hon. friend had not been quite fairly treated. There appeared a considerable degree of soreness on the part of the magistrates; but this stolen march would not tend to raise them in the estimation of the country. It was said, that no case had been made out. Certainly, no case was made out, because no case was intended to be made out. There could be no case of general oppression against a most numerous body. The proposition of his hon. friend was, that a constant and regular return should be laid before the House; because the effect of such a return would be to create a powerful control on the actions of public men. Would it be denied, that such a control was necessary? Was it calumny to argue that magistrates were accessible to the common frailties of human nature
 Mr. Denman  said, he concurred in many of the observations which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, respecting the obscurity in which the larger question would still remain, after the returns, as now called for, were produced; but, it would be easy to make the distinction required in the returns, so as to show the commitments in execution, and also those by summary process. He could not, however, concur with the right hon. gentleman in throwing round the magistracy generally, that species of exemption from inquiry which he had talked of. On the contrary, he thought that when parliament were every year intrusting such extended powers to the magistracy, they were bound to investigate with a jealous eye their administration; and the more so on account of the liability to abuse in the exercise of all human power. He rather wished to see the public eye jealously fixed upon the conduct of magistrates, for the sake of bringing to bear upon their acts the wholesome control of public opinion; and he could not disguise from himself, that however meritorious as a body, there were many individual cases in the magistracy, which required revision and correction. It was singular that, the moment the slightest attempt was made in parliament to control or investigate the authority of the magistrates, it was met by the highest panegyrics upon their general honour and utility. This reminded him of the remark of a judge once at the Old
 908
 Mr. T. Wilson  thought that no case had been made out for inquiry, and that when motions of this kind were made groundlessly, the result must be injurious. In defence of magistrates who were not members of that House, he should oppose the motion.
 Mr. Peel  denied that he had entered into any agreement with the hon. member as to any course which he should pursue in the event of the former motion being withdrawn.
 Mr. Peel  said, he felt it due to the magistrates, not to allow the motion to be withdrawn. It must be negatived.
 Mr. Peel  said, that if the hon. member would point out any one instance in which there had been an improper committal, he would give him any explanation on the subject which he might require.
 The Speaker  said, he held it to be quite clear, that all the rules by which that House regulated its own conduct continued in full operation in every committee that sat above stairs. The hon. gentleman who had opened this case had, in his judgment, very distinctly stated this as the ground of his proposition.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, there was no class of persons who had performed more services to the country than the magistracy. Unless a strong case should first be made out, he could never give his assent to a motion of this nature. There was a sufficient jealousy amongst the magistrates themselves, which made them watch the proceedings of each other; and in this circumstance he saw the best security for the proper discharge of their functions.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that if the House made the regulation, that no member in a private committee should vote upon a
 918
 Sir M. W. Ridley  was of opinion, that a more strict attention to the standing orders of the House, with respect to private bills, would be the best remedy which could be applied to an evil, the existence of which was not denied. When there were sometimes forty committees on private bills sitting on the same day, how could proper attention be paid to them all?
 Sir W. De Crespigny  deprecated the system upon which committees above stairs were conducted, both as to the mode in which members on them permitted themselves to be canvassed, and in which the committees were got up: and particularly as to the way in which the wandering members were brought in and frequently voted, in utter ignorance of the anterior proceedings of a committee, and without the benefit of that knowledge of the business before it, which the regular members of such committee must necessarily possess.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that his hon. friend had alluded to the Alliance Company, upon which subject it had been his intention not to have made any observation; but, as it had been introduced, he would speak of the individuals who composed it, in terms of the highest respect. No names, certainly, could be more respectable; but it was proper the country should know the principle on which that Company was founded. The principle was this: a certain number of most respectable merchants had formed themselves into a company, with a real capital of 500,000 l l 925 926
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that in considering this measure, the question he had asked himself was this: whether upon any principle of equity or justice he was bound to object to the course taken by the hon. gentleman opposite. And first, with regard to the policy of the measure, he had expressed a decided opinion in 1813, when he was in the Board of Trade; the question was then under the consideration of government, and he had given an opinion favourable to the repeal of the exclusive privileges of these two companies, and certainly did not think they had made out the strong case which the hon. member for Penryn seemed to suppose. They had undertaken to pay, in consideration of the exclusive privileges to be derived from their charter, the sum of 300,000 l l 927
 Alderman Thompson  disclaimed any idea of personal disrespect to the hon. member for Weymouth.
 Dr. Lushington  said, he should consider the question in two points:—first, whether the repeal of the exclusive privileges of those chartered bodies was calculated to be generally advantageous; and next, whether, in effecting that repeal, any unjustifiable invasion of the legal rights of others was attempted? If he believed that those companies were, by their charters, legally entitled to and exclusive privileges, he would be the last man to rob them of their legal rights without full and adequate compensation. But, the reverse was the actual case, as it respected the claims of those companies. He had heard much of the opinions said to have been given by sir V. Gibbs and sir T. Plomer, as to the rights of those two companies. He owned he affixed little value to the opinions of lawyers, unless he was in possession of the precise case that was laid before them. Indeed, every man must know that the character and value of a legal opinion depended wholly on such statement, and that on the very same circumstances, they would get the conflicting opinions of counsel, if the case laid before them differed even in minute points. It was not in the power of the Crown to give to these companies the monopoly claimed. The very words of the act of parliament which recognised their existence, gave to the public the power, of revocation, after thirty-one years, on paying back the money advanced. He must be allowed to add, that judging from the inference that he drew, his hon. friend did not appear to him to understand the meaning and object of that clause. By that clause the Crown was enabled to destroy these charters, without the forms of a writ of inquisition, or scire facias, which was the ordinary process of the law, where the rights of other chartered bodies was impugned. The plain intention of this peculiar provision was to give, quoad,
 931 932 l l
 Mr. Plummet  said, that although the advocates of the bill declared it was for the encouragement of competition, yet the effect of it would be to destroy competition; for if 50 or 60 joint-stock companies were formed, was it to be supposed the 1,500 or 1,600 individuals who were at present engaged in it could continue to carry on their trade? If these charters were only to be considered as leases for 31 years, why introduce the words "perpetual succession?" In that view, they differed from those other companies such as the East India and Bank, with whose provisions the legislature had interfered. The vested rights of private individuals were never invaded without granting adequate remuneration. The claims of companies secured by charters, stood on still stronger grounds. He thought the bill unnecessary to the public, most injurious to those whose interests were affected.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, it was true, that ministers might recommend the revocation of the charter, if any injury had arisen in consequence; but, was there the slightest evidence of this in the present case? He bore his willing testimony to the correctness and honourable dealing of the gentlemen connected with Lloyd's Coffee-house, and the liberality with which they lent their aid to every charitable institution and benevolent object.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  contended, that the acceptance by the government of the 120,000 l 929 they
 Mr. Robertson  entreated the House to look narrowly at this measure, so fraught with danger to the commercial interests of the country. Mr. Fox's famous India bill, which at one period agitated every trading town in the empire, was not so pregnant with danger to the state. What were the names that stood foremost upon the lists of this new company? Mr. Baring, Mr. Rothschild, Mr. Irving, Mr. Alexander, and others—the whole United money interests of the empire. A company thus formed was infinitely more dangerous than a chartered association of underwriters, personally responsible, and acting under limited restrictions. It would, in its branching out among the; shareholders, eventually engross to itself all the underwriting of this great city. Now, the commerce of the country was at present rather a great agency business-
 933
 Mr. Hutchinson  urged the necessity of giving time to allow the bill to go to Cork in order to obtain the opinion of his constituents upon it.
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  said, that these regulations had been productive of great vexation in the county with which he was best acquainted, and hoped that the president of the board of trade would carry into effect next session, the inquiry so much called for.
 Mr. S. Rice  was disposed to take the same view with the hon. baronet. He believed great practical injury was sustained by the farmers, and that it was well worthy of the consideration of the House, whether or not the whole of the existing regulations should be repealed.
 Mr. Home Drummond  said, he was sorry to be obliged to state, in this late stage of the bill, objections that went rather to the details than to the principle of the measure. But he had been deprived of the means of making these objections to the proper stage, when it was in the committee. He differed little in principle from the hon. member who brought in the bill, and he knew that the principles on which it was the object of the hon. and learned gentleman to legislate were approved of by the House. But  he 936 937
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, he had the greatest doubt whether any company ought to be allowed to effect marine Insurances, and, at the same time, Insurances on lives: the nature of the one being an insurance against immediate risk; and the other being a yearly payment for an eventual return to a man's family, calculated on different principles, and which ought not to be subjected to future hazards, which it was impossible for the insuring party to guard against, or to foresee.
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  then rose to move the committal of the bill, and observed that the learned counsel who had been heard, had contended, that Joint-stock companies were entitled to no superior protection—a position in which he cordially concurred with them. They had also expressed an apprehension that if the present bill passed, Joint-stock companies would hereafter obtain those privileges. For his own part, he could see no reason for any such apprehension. To whom were such companies to apply? To the House? He believed not one member was
 921 922 923 l l l l l 924
 Mr. Buxton  said, that after the personal attacks which had been made upon him— [cries of "no, no."] He must contend, that it was a direct personal attack to say, that he felt and thought differently where his own interests were concerned. He
 930
 Mr. Fowell Buxton  having moved the order of the day for the second reading of this bill, Mr. Grenfell reminded the House, that counsel were to be heard against the bill.
 Mr. Lockhart,  in answer to the observation of these charters being granted in perpetual succession, showed, that by a subsequent clause in the act, they were made determinable by the authority of parliament. He supported the bill.
 Mr. Hume  said, he had at first thought that the two companies had a claim for compensation, if their privileges were taken away; but, on further consideration, he had come to the conclusion that his first impression was incorrect, and he could only consider the two companies as
 928
 Mr. T. Wilson  rose to  move
 Mr. Thomas Wilson  said, he regarded this question as one of very great importance. He confessed he was a good deal surprised at the view which the chancellor of the Exchequer had taken of the subject. Now, if one half of an engagement were to be binding, he could not see why the other should be violated. He thought he was justified in saying, that if the House should pass this measure, they would be invading vested rights upon theoretic speculations rather than upon good sense and sound experience; and the more especially he thought so, after the cases alluded to by an hon. gentleman opposite, and the names which he had mentioned as supporting his view of the case. But, he should like to know what was the necessity for this measure. The hon. member who had introduced the bill had said, that if the measure should pass, we should have in this country the insurance trade of all the world; but this opinion appeared to him to be exceedingly ill-founded. All the foreign companies were falling to pieces. At Hamburgh, the scheme had been a failure altogether. In France, the Compagnie Royale took insurances only in Paris; and the shares of the Compagnie Generate, which had broken in upon its capital, were at a discount of ten per cent. The present system was approved of by the merchants of the country; and in his judgment, instead of looking out for public companies, they should look out for good underwriters. He therefore, thought it would be letting down the dignity of the House of Commons to interfere in the concern, when the act of parliament had pointed out the course which should be adopted; namely, an application to the king in council.
 Mr. Huskisson  was quite ready to admit that the existing regulations were contrary to all sound principles, and that
 935
 Mr. Manning  considered the measure unnecessary, from the reduced rate at which all risks were at present underwritten.
 The Speaker  observed, that counsel were not ordered to attend against, but upon the second reading of the bill. If the House decided that the bill should not be read a second time, the opportunity for hearing counsel would never arrive.
 Sir H. Parnell  was surprised that no
 934
 Sir J. Newport  defended the act of 1812,  by of
 Mr. A. Smith  seconded the amendment. He thought the bill so completely absurd, that he knew of no better method than of getting rid of it altogether.
 Mr. Lockhart  complained, that the hon. mover, in the recital of this bill, had overlooked at least twenty statutes, the objects or titles of which should have been recapitulated. Instead of doing as had been done with the bankrupt acts, whenever the bankrupt laws had been altered or amended, namely, reciting and consolidating them, and then stating the new enactments, the hon. member's bill specifically repealed, of all the numerous game laws now existing, so much only as regarded the matters of possession and qualification. Now, as it was no where stated in the bill what other parts of those preceding laws were to be still operative, or what repealed, he could not conceive an act, if the bill should pass into one, the extent and application of which could be more embarrassing to the people at large, to the magistrates, or the judges. The hon. member remarked on the danger of the clause permitting the sale of game, and the encouragement a measure would extend to poachers, and expressed his intention to support the amendment.
 Mr. Cartwright  said, that although he was friendly to the principle of the bill, he should strongly recommend to his hon. friend, the expediency of withdrawing it for the present. He was quite convinced, from the opposition it had encountered, that it would be impossible to carry it in the course of the session.
 Mr. W. Peel  opposed the bill, which he said could be advantageous to no other persons than the poachers and poulterers.
 Mr. H. Twiss  also opposed the bill. There could be no doubt, he observed, that the restrictions which it added to those, already too numerous, of the present system of game laws, would considerably increase crime among the lower orders of the people. The provision which it was proposed to make against this consequence of the measure, by legalizing the sale of game would, he was satisfied, be found inefficient. Besides, if that provision were more operative than he believed it would be, its tendency would be to degrade the country gentlemen into hucksters, and he was therefore sure that it would never be sanctioned by them in practice. There were, however, other and more serious objections to the measure, which deserved the particular attention of parliament. It was admitted to be a subject of regret that the existing game Jaws were too severe, and their enforcement often evaded on that account. But, what did the bill before the House propose to do? Not to abate that severity, but to increase it to an unreasonable degree. At present, persons charged with offences under the game laws were held only to have committed a misdemeanour; but, by the proposed bill, their offence was made at once a felony. Now, bail might be tendered by the party accused, and no magistrate, however zealous for the preservation of game, could or would refuse to accept it. By the bill before the House, however, the liberty of the accused was at once forfeited, and he had no means of regaining it before trial, except by a writ of habeas corpus, the expense of which would make it, to the great majority of persons taken up under the bill, a remedy rather in theory than in practice. By this alteration in the character of the offence from a simple misdemeanour to a felony, the culprit would lose the privilege—to him an invaluable one—of addressing the jury; and thus the general operation of the bill would be, to increase the offence; and the opportunities of com-
 958
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the main question was, whether it was expedient or not, to attempt to alter the present system. He did not know whether his hon. friend, the member for Yorkshire, was disposed to accede to the suggestion which had been made to him of withdrawing his bill for the present session, but after the objections which he had heard, he was induced, if his hon. friend did not adopt that suggestion, to vote for its re-committal. The bill had at least the merit of providing for two great evils of the present system; the one by permitting the sale of game, without which he was convinced no permanent improvement could be hoped for; and the other, by altering the absurdity with respect to the qualification. As the law stood at present, a gentleman of large property, with six sons, could not qualify more than one of them, and yet he was called upon to enforce the very laws which his own family set the first example of violating. This was an anomaly, the existence of which ought not to be permitted. Objections had been raised to the severity of the measure; but, was it forgotten, that the present law was also severe, and that it was the cause of crime, the quantity of which the bill proposed to diminish? He, however, thought it would be better that the measure should for the present be postponed, and under this impression he repeated his intention to vote for its being re-committed, if his hon. friend should determine to press it.
 Lord Milton  thought the House had nothing to do with the effect which the bill might have, either as to the increase or the diminution of game. It was not the duty of parliament to provide for the amusements of country gentlemen, but to legislate for the preservation of the morals of the country. The main effect of the
 959
 Mr. Plunkett  rose to present a petition, from the "undersigned" Roman Catholics of Ireland, praying for relief from the penal laws which still oppressed them. He begged to state, in presenting this petition, that he entirely concurred in its contents, with the exception of one single paragraph or observation. The petition was, with the exception of the passage to which he had alluded, drawn up with temper and propriety. It stated truly, that the petitioners were not now under the necessity of making a parade of their attachment to the constitution, or their
 942 943
 Mr. Plunkett  said, that the hon. member had more than insinuated, that a strong feeling was entertained that he (Mr. P.) had neglected his duty; he did not at all seem to think there was any imperfection in the law, but had expressed his astonishment, that those who had proceeded against the bottle-throwers at the theatre had left untouched the Catholic Association. Now, he could assure the hon. member, that any apprehensions which might be entertained, either by the hon. member himself or his friends, could not induce him to change that course of conduct which he had uniformly endeavoured to pursue, in the discharge of his duty. In every instance in which he had exercised his official powers, as attorney-general for Ireland, he had looked straightforward to his object, without any consideration as to sect or party. Whenever he had perceived a violation of the law which the public interest required to be prosecuted, he had fearlessly come forward to undertake the prosecution. Whether a candid construction had always been put upon his motives, it was for the House to judge. All that he would say was, that the same course which he had hitherto pursued he would still continue to pursue. He would pursue no left-handed justice; but he would, so far as the laws would enable him, whenever he met with a transgression of the law, from whatever party it might proceed, immediately visit it with punishment. The hon. member had professed himself, not only a vindicator, but a member of the Orange Association. He could assure the hon. member, that if he were furnished with satisfactory evidence, he would not be found backward in trying the strength of the law against a gentleman making that profession, and he would abide the consequences of the censure of those respectable persons, who blamed him for not prosecuting the Catholic Association. Neither the hon. member nor any other
 949
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  said, it was matter of notoriety, that at the period of the king's visit to Ireland, whatever might be the provocation received, the Catholics had come to a resolution to bury their animosities in oblivion. In that resolution they persevered for two years; and if they had subsequently abandoned this pacific disposition, it had been with a view of opposing an assumed attitude of defence on the part of their opponents. Under
 950
 Sir T. Lethbridge  thought, that the petition deserved the minutest attention. It had been said, that the Orangemen had provoked the conduct of the Catholic Association; but the things complained of would never have occurred but for that association. Had they ever heard, on the part of the Orangemen, any of the overt acts now committing by the Catholic Association?
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he had heard the remarks of the attorney-general for Ireland with infinite satisfaction, and hoped that they had met with the approbation of all his colleagues. He trusted that ministers, individually and collectively, were determined to administer impartial justice in Ireland.
 Mr. Plunkett  threw himself on the candour and fairness of the House, if any hon. member had a right so to press an individual holding the situation of public prosecutor. The hon. gentleman himself had said, that he was not sure that the Catholic Association, although violating the spirit, was not at the same time, cheating the letter of the law. Suppose he (Mr. P.) were of the same opinion— was he to state it in that House? or was he to declare, that, although their proceedings did not bring them within the letter of the law, he would nevertheless prosecute them? Would that be wise? He had no difficulty in declaring it as his opinion, that the Catholic Association should be narrowly watched; and if he once saw his way clearly in point of law, and in point of prudence, he would not shrink from his task. He certainly thought that the intemperance and folly of the association were more calculated indefinitely to postpone the success of the Catholic cause, than all the efforts of the most bitter enemies of the cause. Still, however, he must remonstrate against being unfairly pressed on the subject. He would not say whether the proceedings of the association were legal or illegal, but would reserve to himself the full exercise of his own discretion on the subject.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he came down expecting that the hon. member would follow up his motion for laying the petition on the table, by another motion, to refer it to the consideration of a com-
 952 953 Feel
 Mr. M. Fitzgerald  defended the character of the members of the Catholic Association. Than Mr. O'Connell a more able, zealous, and effective advocate never lived. He was a gentleman of large property, and therefore by no means interested in promoting the agitation of the public mind in Ireland. The learned individual in question was most enthusiastic in his character; perhaps somewhat indiscreet; but it was an indiscretion that was surely not censurable.
 Mr. Brownlow , in rising to present a petition, respecting the Roman Catholic Association of Dublin, said, that the subject, on which he had to address the House, was as well entitled to mature consideration, as any subject that had been brought before the House during the present session. He hoped, also, that it would attract the attention of his majesty's ministers—not an attention which produced a speech or two, soon uttered and soon forgotten, but an attention which would lead to the fearless and impartial
 944 945 946 947 948
 Mr. Brownlow  said, that he would withdraw his motion to refer the petition to a committee to-night, and give notice of the same motion for to-morrow.
 Mr. Brownlow  expressed his astonishment that, on a question so important as the present, not one of his majesty's ministers had condescended to state whether or not he considered the association legal. All that the attorney-general had said was, that he was quite ready to use any information which he might obtain against him (Mr. B.) if he could establish that he belonged to an Orange association. He was ready to give the right hon. gentleman every information he might require respecting the Orange associations. They were composed of men of known principles, of great talents, and who had performed eminent services to their country, notwithstanding the cloud which, on every occasion, it was attempted to throw over them. But, the question before the House was, the character of the Catholic Association; and on that question not one of his majesty's ministers had thought proper to speak.
 Colonel Trench  regretted having mentioned the name of Mr. O'Connell, but he did not retract one syllable of the observations which he had made on the character of the Catholic Association. If the Catholics were not so much under influence, and so capable of being worked up to the commission of the most atrocious crimes, he should not be averse to what was called their emancipation. But, when he saw that a set of artful, cunning unprincipled demagogues endeavoured by every species of craft and fraud, to inflame the Catholics of Ireland, and excite in their minds a hatred of the Protestants and of English connexion, he could not concur in any such proposition.
 Colonel Trench  said, that whatever might be the intentions of the Catholic Association, the consequences of their proceedings had been most disastrous. He had looked into the proceedings of this self-constituted parliament, under the influence of its protector, O'Connell, and he found that a most insidious proposition had been issued, calling upon all parties to give their assistance in the collection of tithes in kind. Now, the construction which he put upon this proposition was, that its object was to prevent any diminution of that acrimonious feeling which existed on the subject of tithes. No man would be more happy than he should, that the Catholic clergy should have an adequate provision; but it was impossible to deny that the object of the association was, to establish Catholic supremacy. Even in that House he had heard it laid down as a principle, that the religion of a country should be regulated by the creed of the majority of the people. He firmly believed that there were men among the Irish Catholics, actuated solely by selfish views, and anxious, in order that those views might be gratified, to keep the country in constant disturbance.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he rose to present a petition from a great number of individuals of the Roman Catholic persuasion in Ireland. That body formed a large class of his majesty's subjects in Ireland, a class much to be respected, not only for its great and still increasing numbers, but on other accounts; and on no account more than for that unshaken confidence which they had always reposed in parliament, notwithstanding it had so frequently defeated their hopes, and withered their expectations. As he differed from the petitioners in some of the points of the petition, he should use no other language but the very terms of the petition itself. The petitioners began by expressing their gratitude for a disposition which they thought prevailed in parliament to redress their wrongs. They next expressed their regret on a subject on which he certainly did not agree with them. They expressed their regret that the act of Union between the two countries had ever been adopted. At the same time they complained, and in that complaint he concurred, that none of the promises which had been held out to them at the time of the Union had been fulfilled. They stated, that the abuses of the local jurisdictions had not been suppressed—that the oppressive and injurious power of the corporate bodies had not been diminished—nor had the Catholic population, forming seven-eighths of the inhabitants, been restored to their just and lawful rights; but that on the contrary, the consequence of the Union had been, to withdraw from them the protection arising from their landlords residing in the country, and to leave them to the abuse of power—the extortion and oppression of agents. He wished it was in his power to negative that part of the petition, but he feared that it was beyond contradiction. They were also right in stating, that the Union had materially aggravated these evils. They also complained of the present system of tithes. They complained of its injustice, and not of the principle on which tithes were levied; of the right claimed by a small body of men to-have immense sums of money paid to them by the body of the people, in order to support a hierarchy which insulted and oppressed them. All legal measures of resistance, they said, seemed to be forbidden, and they therefore called on the House to give its most serious attention to the
 955 956
 Mr. Warre  declared that the Catholic population were by no means indifferent to Catholic emancipation. Of the association he would say nothing, but that he wished to see the cause of emancipation in other hands, and regretted that Catholics of birth, character, and influence, did not unite to place the cause under their own guidance.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said:— 1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 1009 1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 1015 1016 1017 1018 1019 * * 1020 1021 1022 1023 1024 1025
 Mrs. Walrand  proceeds: "He (Mr. Forbes) said, how he envied Mr. Tucker his immediate death; and seemed in the most excruciating agony, but perfectly in his senses. I entreated the guard, in the name of every principle of humanity, just to let me send to Golden Grove, the next estate, to Dr. Goldie; I tried to get them to look at the dying, bleeding man, hoping the sight of his misery would move their compassion. Each of the guards, at different times, Murphy, Rodney, and others, refused. The man died at half past twelve that night. In the course of the forenoon of Tuesday, Murphy (the man since executed) came into the gallery of the sick-house, and was examining the house. I asked what was the meaning of all they had done, and what they wanted. He said, their freedom; the king had sent it out, and their owners would not give it. I asked, 'Who told you so?' he said, 'parson Smith preached it every Sunday.' I gave him my word most solemnly that I knew nothing of it; at least our negroes had received no such freedom. They seemed to think I was deceiving them. He said, parson Smith was put in the stocks also. They said, 'The negroes no want to put him in, but parson Smith said, they must put him in, if they put other whites in, for copy of countenance.'" 1026 1027 * * 1028 1029 1030 1031 1032 1033
 Mr. S. Whitbread  said, he looked with great jealousy at the combination of gentlemen to destroy the trade of individuals. The number of pawnbrokers in the metropolis did not exceed 300, and the only difference was, that the pawnbroker lent 2 s. d. s. d.
 Mr. Hobhouse  supported the amendment for the sake of all tradesmen; for, if this bill were carried, there was no reason why joint-stock companies of butchers or bakers should not be established. The real object of the promoters of the bill was private profit, and by that profit the public would be losers.
 Sir W. Congreve  said, that the pawn-brokers themselves were persons privileged by act of parliament; and, with regard to profit, the company would be satisfied with less than what was made by the pawnbrokers.
 Mr. Monck  contended, that the bill, though christian in profession, was Jewish in principle, as the object of the speculators was, to monopolize the profits which the jews at present enjoyed.
 Dr. Lushington  rose, but was nearly inaudible from the cries for adjournment. He said he thought there were many gentlemen most anxious to speak on this question, and he should, therefore, submit to the feeling of the House; ready now to proceed, but willing to defer the expression of his sentiments, if they should think it necessary.
 Mr. Brougham  rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:—
 Mr. Speaker ; I confess that, in bringing before this House the question on which I now rise to address you, I feel not a little disheartened by the very intense interest excited in the country, and the contrast presented to those feelings by the coldness which prevails within these walls. I cannot conceal from myself, that, even in quarters where one would least have expected it, a considerable degree of disinclination exists to enter into the discussion, or candidly to examine the details of the subject. Many persons who have, upon all other occasions, been remarkable for their manly hostility to acts of official oppression, who have been alive to every violation of the rights of the subject, and who have uniformly and most honourably viewed with peculiar jealousy every infraction of the law, strange to say, on the question of Mr. Smith's treatment, evince a backwardness to discuss, or even to listen to it. Nay, they would fain fasten upon any excuse to get rid of the subject. "What signifies inquiring," say they, "into a transaction which has occurred in a different portion of the world?" As if distance or climate made any difference in an outrage upon law or justice. One would have rather expected that the very idea of that distance; the circumstance of the event having taken place beyond the immediate scope of our laws, and out of the view of the people of this country; in possessions, where none of the inhabitants have representatives in this House, and the bulk of them have no representatives at all, one might have thought, I say, that, in place of forming a ground of objection, their remote and unprotected situation would have strengthened the claims of the oppressed to the interposition of the British legislature. Then, says another, too indolent to inquire, but prompt enough to decide, "It is true there have been a great number of petitions presented on the sub-
 * 962 963 they, they, they 964 965 966 967 968 969 970 971 972 973 974 975 976 977 978 979 informed 980 reputed 981 982 983 984 985 986 987 the future! 988 989 990 991 992 993 994 995 they 996 997 998 999
 Mr. Speaker ; even if I had not been loudly called upon, and directly challenged by the honourable gentleman—even if his accusations, now repeated after full consideration, did not make it my duty to vindicate the petition, which I had the honour to present, from unjust reproach—I own that I should have been anxious to address the House on this occasion; not to strengthen a case already invincible, but to bear my solemn testimony against the most unjust and cruel abuse of power, under a false pretence of law, that has in our times dishonoured any portion of the British empire. I am sorry that the hon. gentleman, after so long an interval for reflection, should have this night repeated those charges against the London Missionary Society, which, when he first made them, I thought rash, and which I am now entitled to treat as utterly groundless. I should regret to be detained by them for a moment, from the great question of humanity, of justice, before us, if I did not feel that they excite a prejudice against the case of Mr. Smith, and that the short discussion sufficient to put them aside leads directly to the vindication of the memory of that oppressed man. 1034 1035 1036 1037 1038 heard, 1039 1040 1041 1042 1043 1044 1045 1046 * * 1047 * * 1048 1049 this man 1050 * * 1051 1052 1053 1054 1055 1056 1057 1058 1059 1060 1061 1062 1063 1064 1065 1066 "That, ev'n his bones from insult to protect, Some frail memorial, still erected nigh, With uncouth rhimes and shapeless sculpture deckt, Might claim the passing tribute of a sigh." 1067 1068
 Sir James Mackintosh  said:—
 Mr. Scarlett  rose, and begged that a short time might be allowed him to express his opinion on this subject, and to state the reasons for the vote which he should give on the present motion. He expressed his warmest admiration at the talent and eloquence which had been displayed by the learned and honourable member who had brought forward the motion; but he doubted very much whether he ought to concur in a vote of condemnation proposed against individuals who had no advocate in that House, and proposed in language which described them as little better than murderers: for it was admitted, by both of his learned friends, that if the persons whose conduct was now under consideration had had the courage to carry into execution the sentence passed against Mr. Smith, the present proposition would have the effect of stigmatising them as persons who had committed murder. When called on to take part in such a vote, directed against individuals not before the House, he could not but wish, that, instead of passionate
 1069 1070 1071 1072 1073 1074 1075 1076
 Sir R. Wilson  took that opportunity of asking the secretary for the colonies, first, whether the minutes laid on the table of the House were the only official copy of the trial which the government had received; and secondly, whether the hon. gentleman was prepared to admit or deny the authenticity of the copy of evidence published by the Missionary Society? If there had been any suppression of evidence, it would be a great aggravation of the charge which had been made against the authorities of Demerara.
 Mr. W. Horton , in answer to the first question, said, that the minutes received by government had been printed without the omission or alteration of a single word. With respect to the second question, he could neither affirm nor deny the authenticity of the copy of the trial published by the Missionary Society. There were discrepancies between that and the official Copy, with respect to which he would leave gentlemen to draw their own conclusions.
 Mr. Buxton  said, that as some doubt existed as to whether the court had received hearsay evidence, he begged to state, that Mr. Elliott, a missionary, who was present at the trial, was now in London.
 Mr. Lockhart  asked, whether the authorities in Demerara had issued a proclamation revoking martial law?
 Mr. W. Horton  replied, that there could be no doubt that martial law had been repealed.
 Mr. Brotigham  said, he had at first intended to propose the resumption of the debate to-morrow; but for the reasons stated by his learned friend, he consented to the postponement.
 Mr. Secretary Peel,  while he admitted that the question was one of considerable difficulty and delicacy, supported the clause. It was only when the charge was made by a female, that the accused could be convicted of the offence; where the charge was made by a man there must necessarily be two witnesses. He was quite aware, notwithstanding all the precautions that could be taken, that it was a power that might be abused; and it would be advisable to have occasional returns laid before parliament of the convictions under the act, to ascertain from time to time, not only whether there had been any abuse, but whether there had been any suspicion of abuse? It might be also a subject for future consideration, whether or not, where the enormity of the offence was very great, it should not be liable to a punishment of greater severity.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  rose to oppose the Speaker's leaving the chair. The hon. gentleman, after observing upon the mass of interests which the bill affected, stated that it was the desire of parties concerned
 1087
 Sir F. Ommaney  seconded the amendment.
 Mr. Robertson  observed, that there should be more caution exercised In infringing upon vested rights, and especially in the present case. Here was a company (that of Lloyd's Room) of long establishment, which had conducted marine insurances in the most advantageous manner for the whole country, as well as with profit and honour to themselves. They had extended and improved their establishment, until the advantages of it were felt by British navigators and merchants in every corner of the globe: they had, by their enlarged intelligence and active agency, become the centre of all information respecting maritime affairs; from them was drawn the knowledge which alone could enable any company to conduct insurances with safety: they were in possession of all particulars by which the hazards of different policies were distinguished. The dangers of particular seas, new discoveries with respect to sandbanks, by which nautical charts were improved, were delivered to them first. Their resources were such, that the two other companies, which were allowed by the act of George 1st. to effect marine insurances, were obliged to apply to this company for information to guide them in effecting policies. So far from breaking down monopoly by the present bill, it would more than ever promote it, by condensing the power of money capital, and placing the public interest at the entire disposal of the wealthy.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it appeared to him that gentlemen had argued this question with reference to the general subject of whipping, instead of confining themselves to its immediate connexion with this clause. He could not coincide with those who were of opinion that corporal punishment should be entirely abolished. The knowledge of the fact that it might be inflicted for particular offences, produced a salutary terror, which checked the growth of such offences. It was not introduced for the purpose of effecting reform, but as an example to others. A learned gentleman had made a remark on the word correction as inapplicable to incorrigible offenders. The word had, however, two meanings. If it were taken to mean reform, it would certainly be absurd to apply it to those who were adjudged to be incorrigible. But here the word correction simply meant punishment. To show the necessity of having recourse to corporal punishment, he would state a fact which had occurred some time ago. The convicts in the Penitentiary had been removed on board the hulks, and were there subject to the same regulations as they had been governed by while within the walls of the prison. Those regulations, however, which answered very well in the Penitentiary, were found insufficient on board the hulks. The convicts became turbulent and refractory: they combined together, insulted those who were placed over them, and behaved badly in every respect. A bill was in consequence passed, placing them under the usual regulations that were observed on board the hulks. Those regulations authorized corporal punishment for refractory behaviour. The consequence was, that the terror of that punishment reduced the convicts from the Penitentiary to a state of perfect subordination and obedience.
 Mr. R. Smith  had no objection to visiting incorrigible rogues with this species of punishment, if those who ought tocome under the denomination of incorrigible were properly pointed out. The bill now before the committee set forth three classes of persons, as coming within the denomination of incorrigible rogues. 1. Those who break prison, before the term of their imprisonment under this bill. These were certainly fit subjects for additional punishment. 2. Those who were a second time convicted, as vagrants, under the provisions of the bill. He had no objection to the infliction of the punishment in cases of that nature. 3. Persons assaulting and resisting officers, while endeavouring to apprehend them as rogues and vagabonds. To this he could not agree; because officers might endeavour to arrest an innocent man. Such an individual, in a moment of passion and irritation, might resist and assault the officers. In that case, under this third portion of the clause, he must be considered an incorrigible rogue and vagabond, though, on inquiry, it might be found, that when the attempt was made to apprehend him, he was no rogue or vagabond at all. He therefore proposed, that the words "and being thereafter convicted as a rogue and vagabond" should be introduced.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, the House could not take away the privileges of Lloyd's, without granting a compensation, as had been done in the case of the South Sea Company.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  proposed a clause for rendering each partner of any insurance joint-stock company liable to the insured, notwithstanding any clause in the policy or agreement to the contrary.
 Sir C. Forbes  spoke also against the motion.
 Sir F. Ommanney  proposed, as an amendment, instead of the words "from and after the passing of this act," to substitute "from and after the year of our Lord, 2000"[a laugh]. The hon. member declared his intention of dividing the committee upon it, even if he stood alone.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, there was something absurd in the idea of sending to the house of correction persons who were convicted of being "incorrigible" rogues. He strenuously objected to the practice of whipping. Wherever it was resorted to, it must lead to consequences diametrically opposite to those which it should be the object of all criminal legislation to produce. Suppose a man sentenced to twelve months' imprisonment, and, in addition, to a whipping. At what time was that whipping to be inflicted? Was it to be inflicted before the imprisonment commenced? In that case, the individual would go into gaol, exasperated against society, and more anxious for revenge than for reformation. Was the punishment to be administered at the end of six months? Why, during that period the morals of the man might have been improved, he might have repented of the evil of his ways; and therefore it was unjust to punish him. It was also unwise: for that punishment would, perhaps, drive him back to his old courses. Or, was the whipping to take place at the expiration of the twelve months? There, also, the danger existed of committing an act of injustice, by punishing an individual whose moral character had been improved. If whipping was at all resorted to, it ought to be as a summary punishment. The offender should be set at liberty the moment he was so punished.
 Mr. Monck  argued against that part of it which empowered the magistrates to cause individuals convicted as incorrigible rogues to be whipped. In his opinion, twelve months imprisonment, and the labour of the tread-wheel, was a sufficient punishment. He never would consent to any measure that savoured of torture; which the practice of whipping did. Formerly, sturdy vagrants were punished by whipping, branding on the forehead, boring the ears, and slitting the nose. All these inflictions, except that of whipping, were now done away; and that remnant of a system of torture ought also to be removed. It degraded the individual; and instead of reforming his evil propensities, rendered him more determined in the pursuit of vice. Another great objection was, that nothing was said as to the mode of apportioning the quantity. If the punishment were persevered in, some criterion, such as the breaking the skin, or the drawing of blood, should be laid down for the direction of those who administered the punishment. He concluded by moving "that that part of the clause which related to the punishment of whipping be left out."
 Mr. Monck  contended, that as the liberty of appeal was given by a subsequent clause, it could not be said that a conviction under this bill depended on the decision of a single magistrate. If any party were discontented with the decision of a single magistrate on his case, he had full power to obtain upon it the decision of a bench of magistrates, before whom he would be able to have the assistance of counsel, and to derive all the benefit which he ought from the respectability of
 1083
 Mr. Plummer  took the same view of the matter, and contended that, little losses were ever suffered by insuring at Lloyd's.
 Mr. J. Smith  was happy to learn from the right hon. secretary that his mind was still occupied with the revision of the criminal code. They had gone on, exercising a great severity of punishment, for many years, with very little effect; and he was convinced that if a milder course were adopted, much good would result from it.
 Mr. J. Smith  objected to whipping, under any circumstances, as a punishment that could do no good. It was absurd to suppose, that by tormenting the body, they could reform and render more virtuous the mind. Severe punishments always had the effect of exciting our sympathies on behalf of the suffering individual. The horror which his crime should elicit was lost in the recollection of the protracted misery which he endured. No one could reflect without shuddering on the torments which Damien and Ravillac were compelled to endure. However atrocious the conduct of a criminal might be, the refinement of cruelty in punishing him always excited some degree of sympathy for him. He looked upon solitary confinement as a much more effectual punishment than whipping. On this point they might take a useful lesson from their French neighbours. There 30,000,000 of people were ruled without any corporal punishment, with the exception of marking on the shoulder, and that, he believed, was done
 1085
 Mr. John Smith  begged the House to reflect on the possible abuse which might grow out of such an enactment. To give a summary power of conviction to magistrates to punish men merely because witnesses were found ready to swear to the fact, might occasion the greatest perversion of justice. The very charge itself subjected the accused to the whole weight of public opinion, which in this country was decisive. If himself or any of his honourable friends were merely charged with such an offence, and no investigation were allowed, save the oath of an informer, they would never recover from the consequent depression of feeling during their lives. What also must be the sufferings of a respectable family, when the head of it was, on the oath of a solitary witness, accused of such an offence? The feelings of the honest and deserving classes ought not lightly to be exposed to such grievous imputations. At least they should be allowed that security which the intervention of a jury would afford them. There could be no objection, on the ground of a delay in the administration of justice, as a jury would go through the whole investigation in ten minutes. The offence was
 1082
 Mr. Warre  concurred with what had fallen from the hon. member for Durham.
 Mr. Hume  seconded the amendment. He thought there never had been a measure so ill-timed, and particularly after the statement that no part of this money was to be applied for three years. Let churches be built by those who required them, and let the existing regulations with respect to building churches be revised, and there would be no necessity for calling on the public money.
 Mr. Hume  explained, that he had not meant to apply the phrase, "cant and hypocrisy" to his hon. friend.
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from Stokesley, praying for Freedom of Public Discussion, both in speaking and writing. He said, he quite agreed with the petitioners in censuring the number of prosecutions for publishing books on religious topics; to which prosecutions new vigour seemed to have been given since the present Attorney-general had come into his office.
 Mr. Hume  replied, that nothing contained in the petition warranted the tirade just delivered by the hon. member. Such tirades were generally mere cant and hypocrisy. One of the cant words employed on these occasions was "Blasphemy," which even the hon. member would find it difficult to explain. The petition only prayed freedom of discussion. He moved, that the clerk should read it at length. It was read accordingly.
 Mr. M. A Taylor  threw himself upon the candour of the House, to decide whether any thing he had said warranted the anger his hon. friend had expressed. In his opinion, the purport of the petition was, to prevent prosecutions for publications injurious to religion. No man was prosecuted for his opinions. It was lord Mansfield's doctrine, that if the Devil came into Court, he must have' justice; and even those who had impugned the Gospel and blasphemed religion, had met with
 1079
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  did not oppose the bringing up the petition, but he would take leave to say, that if such opinions as those promulgated by Carlile and others were disseminated with impunity, the uninformed, and lower classes of society would be left without protection against the basest and most mischievous schemes. He had himself seen a House in Fleet-street, on which was an inscription stating, that it was the "Repository for the Deist and the Republican." He had no objection to every man's worshipping God in his own way; but he must denounce as highly dangerous such practices as these. There ought to be a Church Establishment in every state; but the attack now made was levelled against all religion.
 Mr. Estcourt  acknowledged, that in the first instance he was strongly against introducing this offence into the bill, and so were the committee; but, considering it expedient to obtain all the information they could upon the subject from magistrates, they found, after extensive inquiry, that some provision of the kind seemed absolutely necessary. In introducing that provision, they had endeavoured to guard it as much as possible from abuse. The offence was exclusively that of insult to a female. It had been stated by the magistrates, that the offence was so frequent, and it was so difficult to prevail upon females to overcome their natural delicacy, and prosecute the offender in a court of justice, that some summary punishment was almost indispensable.
 Mr. Estcourt  said, that the present was an improvement on the old law. Formerly, vagrants, before they could be passed to their parishes, were obliged to undergo a whipping, and an imprisonment of seven days. By this act, however, whipping was confined to incorrigible rogues and vagrants only; That punishment was awarded, not in the hope of effecting reformation, but as a terror to others who were likely to transgress.
 Mr. T. Wilson  contended, that this was an improper time to meddle with the subject, and that it would ruin both the underwriters and brokers of Lloyd's. He wished the hon. member who had brought forward the measure would allow it to lie over till next session. All such measures ought to emanate from the government. The measure would create ten monopolies.
 Mr. Huskisson  objected to the clause, as an interference with private contracts. If a party chose to take the more limited responsibility of a joint stock rather than have his remedy against each individual, he was averse from interposing against the exercise of such discretion.
 Mr. James  said, he must protest against the uncharitableness of alleging, that all those who thought with him were hostile to the established church. In that religion he had been born and educated, and that religion he should continue to respect; but he was decidedly opposed to spending the public money on such purposes, whilst such ample revenues remained in the hands of the church. How was it that the Dissenters were able to build chapels and meeting-houses for the maintenance of religion? Were the Protestants less zealous? He believed the fact was, that the exertions of the Protestants were mainly impeded by ecclesiastical regulations. He would mention the circumstance illustrative of his opinion, which had occurred in Liverpool. There was in that town a reverend gentleman of the name of Bragge, regularly educated at Oxford, who built a chapel at his own expense. He was a most excellent reader and preacher, consequently he was much followed, and brought about him an extensive congregation, from which he derived a handsome property. This vocation he continued to follow for the space of twenty years; when the then bishop of Chester sent to him, telling him he would be very happy to come and consecrate his chapel. Mr. Bragge very respectfully declined the honour. Shortly after the bishop proceeded against him for preaching in an unconsecrated chapel; in consequence of which Mr. Bragge took out a
 1081
 Mr. W. Smith  admitted, that his hon. friend was as free as any man from cant and hypocrisy. Religion must stand upon truth only, and truth could only be discovered by discussion. He once had believed that the promulgation of certain opinions ought to be repressed; but he was now convinced that such a doctrine was equally dangerous to truth, and to the liberty of the subject. All experience tended to shew, that prosecutions for religion's sake were ineffectual.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, it was true that this punishment might not reform the mind of an offender; but it would forcibly impress on his memory the inconvenience which must result from his adherence to those practices which occasioned such a painful and disgraceful visitation.
 Sir J. Newport  also objected to a summary conviction before one magistrate, and on the oath of one witness, in a case where that conviction would necessarily consign a man to infamy for life. The higher the offence, and the more dreadful the consequences of conviction, the more necessary it was that the greatest caution should be used to guard against injustice. Trial by jury would undoubtedly be the safest proceeding. No man thought more highly than he did of the character of justices of the peace generally; but this was not a case which ought to be left to the decision of a single magistrate.
 MR. Brougham  fully concurred in the principle of the measure for restoring the forfeited tides which gave rise to the present bill; but there were certain limitations in those bills which would be the subject of remark when they came before the House. He concurred entirely in the propriety of not requiring the attendance at present of the very estimable individual whose family title was about to be restored.
 Mr. Secretary Peel,  on moving that this bill be committed, stated the object of it. It was, he said, to renew the Transportation act, which would expire in the present year, and to simplify some of its enactments. Formerly convicts were transported from this country to North America, and it was the practice, before the sailing of any ship, for the king, by an order in council, to appoint the particular place to which the convicts on board were to be conveyed. It was, therefore, necessary, as the law now stood, that a council should be called before the sailing of every ship; but as this might not be convenient, the present act gave to his majesty a general power of nominating the place to which the convicts should besent, without the necessity of assembling a council for that purpose. This bill also did away with the necessity of a particular contract being entered into with every county for the transport of its convicts. It went, likewise, to regulate the treatment of convicts. Transportation was in itself a very unequal punishment. To a
 1092
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that the Crown had always exercised the power of determining the place and manner of transportation. The sentence of transportation was beyond the seas; the place to which the convict was sent was always left to the Crown; and it would be admitted, that if a person transported had not been, from his station in life, subjected to labour, the punishment would be improperly aggravated by subjecting him to the labour, which, for men of another description, would not be an improper accompaniment of the punishment. But whatever might be said of this discretion, it was not given by the bill before the House; it had been previously exercised, and the arrangements which he had spoken of only tended to make it more systematic.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, it had been complained, that, from the circumstances of the colony of New South Wales, the convicts employed as servants about the towns, suffered little by what was intended as a punishment. Under the arrangements now made, they would be spread over the agricultural part of the colony, and be made to labour; which would, to
 1093
 Mr. B. Cooper  defended the bill, as the best means of assisting the national church, and preventing the continuance of that want of accommodation which tended to wean so many from the established church and fill the congregations of the Dissenters. He had heard with regret the term profligate expenditure of the public money applied to the measure. That appeared to him most extraordinary language—and only applicable to brothers. If the law permitted Dissenters to sit in that House, good sense and good taste should induce them not to speak in such unmeasured and inappropriate language.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in answer to the hon. gentleman, observed, that the commissioners under the bill had the discretion of distributing or lending the money according to their view of the means and securities of particular parishes.
 Mr. Wynn  expressed his disapprobation of this species of legislative enactment. He thought it of very little use to insist on the knackers keeping a register from day to day of the fodder they gave their horses, as it was not to be supposed
 1096
 Mr. R. Smith  considered the measure as unnecessary. Under the bill to prevent cruelty to animals, cognizance might be taken of the offence against which this enactment was directed.
 Mr. Philips  felt that it was a disgrace to the House that no grant should be made for the religious instruction of the population of Ireland, where such aid was particularly wanted, and yet that 500,000 l
 Lord John Russell  thought it disgraceful to our system of laws, that such degrading stigmas should be fixed upon so highly respectable and inoffensive a class of the community.
 Mr. Bright  expressed himself favourable to the petition. The case of the Protestant Dissenters was very different from that of the Roman Catholics. The House should recollect how much of their civil liberties they owed to the ancestors of those Dissenters.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  asked, whether it was intended to empower these commissioners to supply the whole funds for building the churches which might be found wanting in populous districts, or whether they were simply to grant an aid to such districts, the principal expense being to be borne by the parishioners? He asked this question, because, if the first were intended, it seemed to him to be unfair to tax the country for building churches in the towns.
 Mr. Grattan  took the same view of the
 1095
 Mr. Monck  would support the measure, if he thought it would conduce to the interest of the established church. He could not, however, convince himself that it was required by the interest of the establishment, and he must therefore pause before he gave it his support. He complained that the church of England had not, at present, its root in the affections of the people; and attributed its unpopularity to a want of zeal in its teachers, who, however respectable they might be in other attainments, were certainly deficient in attention to the spiritual wants of their flocks. Adverting to the manner in which the money already granted had been expended, he observed that large sums had been advanced to parishes where the inhabitants were rich; but that nothing had been advanced to parishes equally large and populous, where the inhabitants were poor. He attributed this circumstance to the regulations of the bill itself, which were exceedngly faulty. He believed that if the Methodists were allowed to build churches, and to retain the patronage of them in their own hands, it would bring back a numerous and respectable class of Dissenters to the pale of the church. In conclusion, he wished the bill to be postponed till next session, in order that the subject of it might undergo the further consideration of government.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that the acts were most absurd, and a disgrace to the Statute-book. He hoped to see more of such petitions, and that, at an early day next session, the subject would be brought before the House.
 Mr. Hume  deprecated the language made use of by the hon. member. He defended the conduct of the Dissenters,
 1094
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from the Protestant Dissenters of several denominations in Chichester, praying for the repeal of these acts.
 Mr. Leycester  supported the amendment. It was pastors and priests that the people wanted, and not edifices of brick and mortar. The people sought for spiritual bread, and the chancellor of the Exchequer gave them a stone. He objected to such demands from a richly endowed church upon their dissenting brethren. It could leave no other impression on the people, but a conviction of the cupidity of our establishment.
 Colonel Davis  opposed the motion. He adverted to the returns laid upon the table of the House to show that even under the late erections, no attention was paid to the accommodation of the people. He instanced the populous places of Manchester and Bristol in support of that inference. He had no hostile feelings towards the national establishment, of which he was a member; but he felt persuaded, that in guarding against such a profligate waste of the public money, he best proved his respect for its character. He then moved as an amendment, "that the report be received upon that day six months."
 Mr. R. Martin  said, he had been solicited by a number of highly respectable persons to introduce this measure. One gentleman, a distiller of large property in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel, where these slaughtering houses were chiefly situated, informed him, that he was obliged to remove, with his family, four miles into the country, in consequence of the disgusting scenes which they were daily obliged to witness in those haunts of cruelty. Gentlemen mistook the matter greatly, if they supposed that it was a fit object for ridicule. Had they witnessed that which he had observed with his own eyes, they would not refuse their support to the bill. He had been to see this slaughtering-house in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel. He there beheld eight or ten horses, some with their eyes knocked out, others hopping on three legs, all miserably maimed, which had upon an average been kept there several days without food. He gave the man in wailing a few shillings to procure two or three trusses of hay, which were brought accordingly. The horses, instead of their natural deliberate way of feeding, ran at the hay, and gorged it greedily, like hounds. The man who was standing by said "There now, you'd much better gi'd me the money to drink." "I would see you d—d first," was his reply; upon which the ruffian said, "that he would trample down the hay, and make it impossible for the horses to eat it." This compelled him to compromise with the fellow, to whom he gave two shillings; but he took ample vengeance upon him afterwards, by sending more than 200 letters, appointing him to come to various parts of the town to bring away dead cows and horses. Surely every gentleman ought to be anxious to save the horse that had been instrumental to his use and pleasure, from so appalling a fate. For his own part, he never allowed a horse, over which he had once thrown his leg as its owner, to be sold: and he had left directions in his will for having them shot, if his successor should attempt to do so. The hon. gentleman related several other instances of outrageous cruelty practised
 1097
 Mr. Carus Wilson  contended, that the measure was highly acceptable to a majority of the community.
 Mr. W. Smith  concurred with the prayer of the petition; and at the same time gave notice, that soon after the holy-days, he would present a petition on the subject.
 Sir I. Coffin —I say, Sir, let us go on, and have the churches.
 Mr. Scarlett  said, that the right hon. gentleman was introducing a new principle into our penal law, by vesting in the executive the power of increasing or diminishing the punishment. The Crown had certainly the power to remit the whole or any part of a sentence, but he objected to the principle that a sentence, not remitted in whole or in part, should be habitually modified by the Crown in the execution of it, so as to take away that certainty of punishment which was so desirable in every system of law.
 Sir J. Newport  remarked, that dean. Swift, when speaking of the test and corporation acts, had expressed a strong opinion, that if those laws were repealed, the Dissenters would, in a short time, succeed in overthrowing the church establishment in Ireland. They were, however, repealed in the year 1782, by one of the shortest acts on the Statute-book. It was, however, well known, that they had been productive of no such effects as those dreaded by the dean. "To show," continued the right hon. baronet, "how little was known of the repeal of those acts by his majesty's ministers in this country, I may mention that, within these five years, I was speaking to one of his majesty's ministers on the subject of Catholic emancipation, and he told me that one of his greatest objections to that measure was, that if it were carried, it would be impossible to prevent the repeal of the test and corporation acts—a measure by which the Dissenters would be enabled, in a short time, to destroy the Protestant church of Ireland. I told him, that the measure of which he spoke with so much alarm had been already carried; that the test and corporation acts in Ireland had been repealed, so far as Protestant Dissenters were concerned, forty years ago. He would not believe the fact at first, and was only convinced by my producing the statute. Such is the effect of being led by prejudice, rather than by judgment."
 Sir J. Newport  complained of the inconsistency of making the Catholic population of Ireland pay for building Protestant churches. The extension of the new churches in England ought to be made in a different manner from that provided by the bill. He was apprehensive that this grant would be abused here as a similar grant had been in Ireland. It was extraordinary to hear the advocates of the established church talking of the great liberality with which they treated their dissenting brethren, when it was an undisputed fact, that in France and Hungary, both Catholic countries, the pastors of the Protestant church were all supported at the expense of the state.
 Mr. Grenfell  presented a petition from Falmouth, complaining of the unwarrantable treatment of the late Mr. Smith, at Demerara. The hon. member observed, that it was too much the fashion now-a-days to apply the epithets of methodist, fanatic, and saint, to any body who thought proper to complain of the hardships of the negroes in the West-Indies. He was neither a methodist nor a fanatic, and most certainly not a saint; but, as a member of a religion, inculcating peace and good-will to all men, and teaching the
 1168
 Mr. Robertson  could assure the House, that there were many in the West-Indies who highly recommended the diffusion of instruction by missionaries, and who thought that the Christian religion could be best imparted to the negroes, by that meritorious class of persons.
 The Lord Advocate  doubted, whether the feeling in Scotland was so favourable to the noble lord's measure as was supposed. The bill looked only to the interest of the creditor; but that of the debtor deserved also to be considered. Here was a new facility to be given to the recovery of small debts, carrying of course with it a fresh encouragement to the giving of small credits. More than three-fourths of the persons now imprisoned in Scotland were imprisoned for small debts; and the bill gave a power of summary confinement to the creditor, beyond that which he possessed already. He had no objection to the bill being brought in and printed: but, upon examination, it would be found, that heavy objections existed against it. It Was worth while to observe the mode of doing business in those courts, of which it was now sought to extend the jurisdiction.
 Mr. Maxwell  was favourable to the principle of the bill, but wished that something could be done to get rid of the system of imprisoning for small debts.
 Mr. Hutchinson  rose to pre-
 1169 1170
 Mr. W. Becker  supported the petition. He was glad of any opportunity of expressing his opinion on this great question, though this was not the occasion for entering into a full discussion of it.: All the friends of the question could do was, to induce the House to come coolly to the consideration of it, and to be in no manner prejudiced on account of the alleged misconduct of a few persons, on whom the injustice of the present laws operated most severely, and who could not be expected to feel or to express themselves respecting them, in the same manner as indifferent spectators. The manifestation of feeling on the part of these individuals was only an additional proof of the necessity of the repeal of the oppressive laws.—In a land of general freedom, no law could be made against a particular body of subjects which they would not be able with success to evade. What would be the conduct of the people of England, if the major part of the population laboured under the same disabilities as the Catholics of Ireland? If the people themselves were indifferent, would not persons of weight and consequence be found endeavouring to rouse them from a lethargy so disgraceful, and the most respected of those who now heard him would be branded with the name of agitators.
 Mr. Robertson  said, he would second the motion, because he thought inquiry was a good thing; but he was by no means satisfied that such a committee as the hon. gentleman recommended would effect the purposes which he appeared to anticipate from it. For his own part, he was not sure that there was not much less disposition to desertion in the navy than in the merchant service. He did not believe it possible to do without the impressment of seamen; but being willing to see whether any thing, and what, could be done towards attaining the objects which the hon. gentleman had in view, he would support the resolution.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, he found great difficulty in following the hon. mover through the very extended range which
 1186 1187 1188 1189 1190 1191
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that a man might have a good coat on his back, good victuals in his belly, and medicine when he was sick, and yet be the veriest slave that ever crawled. As to the expression which his hon. friend had applied to the navy, and which the gallant admiral had noticed, it was only intended to convey the assertion, that seamen were not in possession of the privileges of other Englishmen; an assertion which could not be otherwise than correct, while they were liable at any time to be taken from their family and friends, perhaps never more to be heard of. His hon. friend was not the first person who had found fault with the system of impressment. Hume had mentioned it as one of the three great anomalies of the English constitution—that an Englishman who was so free in the eye of the law, that the highest power in the kingdom could not arbitrarily imprison him for a moment, should be taken away
 1192 1193 1194
 Captain Gordon  defended the system at present pursued in the navy; at the same time admitting, that the impressment of sailors could only be justified on the ground of necessity. He implored the House to consider well before they deprived the navy of a power which was necessary to its greatness, and the removal of which might be a death-blow to its safety [hear, hear!].
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he would support the motion, because he considered the association to be one of the subjects to which that committee ought to direct their attention. The proceedings of the Catholic association were so nearly balanced between legality, and illegality, that they required to be narrowly watched. But he felt no hesitation in fraying, as a minister of the Crown, that, as at present advised, it was not the intention of the government to propose any new law with regard to the association. He, however, entirely concurred in the advice which had been given to the association. He thought they Were pursuing a most dangerous course, without considering how nearly they exposed themselves to the extremity of the law.
 Mr. Hutchinson  said, he had the strongest objection to the motion. The object of the Catholic association was, to state the grievances of the Catholics. As to whether it was an illegal body or not, that was a
 1199
 Lord A. Hamilton  rose, for leave to bring in a bill for the extension of the small debts act in Scotland. In doing so, he observed, that he did not act from individual feeling. In the report of the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the courts of justice in Scotland, it was stated, that the commissioners and the justices of the peace were unanimous in wishing for the extension of the act. Numerous petitions had also been presented in favour of the measure; from which it appeared, that creditors in Scotland often gave up debts of moderate amount altogether, ra-
 1171 l l
 Mr. Brownlow  rose, to move, that the petition which he had presented on a former evening, against the Catholic Association, be referred to the committee now sitting upon the state of Ireland. The ground of his motion was, that the Catholic Association was one of the principal
 1198
 Sir E. Harvey  could testify, from his recollection of the first part of the American war, that the system of impressment was beneficial, in cases where it was necessary immediately to fill the complement of a king's ship. By that system having been then resorted to, many of the merchant vessels had been safely convoyed, which otherwise must have fallen into the hands of the enemy. He thought no probable good could arise from a committee of that House inquiring into a law of the land, which policy and long experience had fully justified.
 Mr. Dawson  denied that any of the disturbances in Ireland arose from that body, and should give his consent to the motion, in order that the House might be satisfied of the fact.
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, that the Catholic association usurped the functions of government, and did other unconstitutional acts, inconsistent with the peace and security of the country. He thought the House ought not to separate without ascertaining from the law officers of the Crown, whether the law, as it stood, was sufficient to put an end to the evil; or if insufficient, whether it was the intention of government to introduce a bill for the purpose of correcting its imperfections.
 Mr. Horace Twiss  said, he would support the motion, for the same reasons which would induce him to vote in favour of the motion of the right hon. baronet (sir J. Newport) for referring the petitions against the Orange associations to the same committee; namely, that he considered both associations to be, in some degree, connected with the disturbances of Ireland. He highly disapproved of the proceedings of the Catholic association, and declared his belief that if the association continued in existence, the number of votes in that House in favour of Catholic emancipation would yearly decrease. He entreated the members of the association, if they were friends to the cause they professed to advocate, to anticipate the acts of the government and dissolve themselves.
 Mr. Warre  observed, that hon. gentle-men on the other side, had treated this question throughout as one entirely to be decided by the opinions of professional men, and as one in the discussion of which other individuals were incapable of participating. With that view of the question he decidedly differed; and though he acknowledged the benefit of such opinions, he did not think that to them alone the decision of the question ought to be entrusted. There had been inquiries on subjects similar to the present, conducted by unprofessional men, without any disadvantage. He alluded to the board of naval inquiry and the board of naval revision, at both of which several civilians had sat as members. But, even supposing the opinion of those hon. gentlemen he had referred to to be correct, still that was not an answer to the present motion, as there were several members of the House who would willingly give their professional assistance in the investigation of the subject. It was notorious, that according to the present practice of impressment, individuals who had never been at sea before, were often seized and sent on board a vessel. He had heard of an instance of that kind, which, however ludicrous it might appear, was nevertheless true. A coachman had been seized by a press-gang, and in spite of his representations and remonstrances, had been sent on board the tender, where he remained all night, and on the following morning actually appeared before the officers in his coachman's habiliments. There was another circumstance to which he wished to call the attention of the House, and that was, that this system was peculiar to England, and to England alone. Other countries had, like England, been distinguished for commercial enterprize and naval glory; one especially had sent large fleets to sea; and yet, as far as he was acquainted with the subject, he believed he might safely assert, that Holland had never resorted to this mode of manning her fleets. He regretted that any hon. gentleman should have introduced American affidavits, affecting the character of a highly meritorious officer, for he believed those affidavits were, at one time, an article of very frequent manufacture. One of these affidavits had lately been published by Mr. Cobbett in a number
 1196
 Mr. Warre  protested against the wanton cruelty which had been inflicted by the recent commutation, as it was called, of the sentences of some of the black prisoners. To give a man his life, and then to torture him to death, was a singular sort of commutation. Yet such was the fact. What else could be called the sparing a man from being hanged, to inflict upon him the military execution of a thousand lashes? He hoped that while the government at home were so laudably engaged in discouraging and abolishing that species of torture, they would express such an opinion upon its infliction in the colonies, as would prevent a repetition of these acts.
 Mr. Hume  wished to extend the jurisdiction of the courts in question to 15 l
 Mr. Hume  rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. It was his intention, he said, to have moved for a select committee, as the best mode of inquiring into the means of remedying the evils of Impressment; but having, in the early part of the session, undertaken another inquiry in a committee, he; felt he could not have done justice to either had he brought both forward at the same time. He had been compelled, by the necessity of attending to his own convenience, and to the convenience of other members, to drive it off to this late period of the session; and he should not
 1172 1173 1174 1175 1176 s s. 1177 1178 1179 1180 1181 1182 1183 l l l 1184 1185 l l
 Mr. Spring Rice  gave his hearty support to the motion.
 Mr. Manning  declared, that when he was in the West-Indies, he had seen no instance of the infliction of exorbitant punishments; and he could add, that pains were taken in the colonies to promote religious education.
 Mr. Peel  said, it appeared to him a matter of course to send the petition up stairs as it had been alleged, that the present disturbances were in a great measure owing to this association, though it might be premature at present to express any opinion of its legality or illegality. He thought that all these secret societies should be put down, and would therefore support both propositions.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that gentlemen opposite, while they admitted the evil, were determined to withhold the remedy. To him it appeared, that the discipline and interests of the navy were closely bound up with the present question. He would refer the House to what had been done for the army. The improvements made in that branch of our service were owing, not more to the exertions of the commander-in-chief, than to the eloquent addresses of the hon. baronet near him (sir F. Burdett). Not only the army, but the country generally were highly indebted to that hon. baronet for his unwearied exertions (hear, hear!]. He was decidedly in favour of his motion, as he felt that it could produce no harm, and was calculated to effect much good.
 Sir F. Blake  called upon the hon. member for Armagh to use his influence in putting down the Orangemen, they having declared their determination to continue the same line of conduct.
 Sir G. Clerk  certainly thought the proposed inquiry would be most advantageously conducted by the Admiralty. The objections which the hon. member had started had not escaped the attention of that Board, and had been remedied as far as possible. With regard to the crying evil of pressing, he was ready to admit, that it could only be justified by necessity. But, how could they otherwise man a fleet in a case of emergency? It was objected to the impress system, that it dragged men to fight against their inclinations; but this objection would hold equally good against the most constitutional force of the country—the militia, into which every man, from eighteen to forty-five, was liable to be made to serve. As a proof, that men would not voluntarily relinquish their other employments and join the naval profession, he had only to state, that even now, in time of peace, there was not a sufficiency of men to fill up the merchant vessels, and to man the
 1195
 Sir I. Coffin  said, that the blacks were contented and happy, as long as they were left alone, and without having their heads stuffed with nonsense, which they did not understand. He had seen thousands of negroes as fat and as jolly as the hon. member himself.
 Sir Isaac Coffin  said, he should not have spoken on this subject if the hon. mover had not called the navy the "white negroes." Now, the moment an impressed man was brought on board ship there was no difference between him and a volunteer, and more volunteers ran from ships of war than pressed men. He could enumerate a number of eminent persons in the navy who had been originally pressed men. There was old admiral Bowater, he was a white slave. There was admiral Mitchell, he was a white slave. There was sir T. Trowbridge, he was a white slave. There was captain Butterfield, who was impressed in 1793, and was a captain in 1798. There was captain Cook, one of the first of navigators he was another; and there were, he had no doubt, 20,000 of these white slaves. If the men were not otherwise to be had, it was necessary to press them; and if they had a good bellyfull of victuals, coats on their backs, and medicine when they were sick, they could not be called slaves.
 Sir R. Wilson,  as a friend of the navy, could not refrain from expressing a few sentiments upon this question. It had been said by some hon. members, that impressed men made the best sailors. Now, he would put it to the consideration of any person, whether such a statement was not founded in mistake—whether it was at all probable, that men who had thus been forcibly seized, and compelled to enter into a king's ship would accommodate themselves to its discipline, and heartily engage in a service into which they had been unwillingly dragged? But, the House had to determine, whether, in consenting to continue this system, they were not consenting to that which was clearly a violation of right. He knew that, by a fundamental principle of the constitution, every man was bound, in case of necessity, to fight in defence of the country; but he knew of none which justified their being thus forcibly taken from their other occupations, and put on board a ship of war. It should be recollected, that the service of the navy was
 1197
 Sir J. Newport  said, that if the motion should be agreed to, it would be impossible to refuse assent to the one which he should submit, for referring to the same committee the petitions against the Orange societies.
 Mr. Robertson  hoped, that in the present state of the House, when so many were absent, who would, if present, be disposed to take a share in the discussion, the hon. gentleman would not persist to press it.
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, that the Some objection had been made last night, and might be used again and again. If the opponents of the bill chose to absent themselves, he could not delay the bill on that account.
 Mr. P. Grenfell  said, that the bill went to destroy the vested rights of Insurance Companies. How tender the legislature formerly had been in dealing with these vested rights, was seen in the case of the South Sea Company, which had a grant of an exclusive right of trading to the South Seas. Though this right had not been exercised for a hundred years, so tender was the House of interfering with it, that it would not take away that right without granting a compensation of 15,000 l
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that the bill was intended to break up the Insurance business of 15 or 1600 persons, against whom no complaint had been adduced, and upon whose immense transactions there had been only a loss of three farthings in the pound.
 Mr. Robertson  contended, that the commercial world would suffer considerably by the establishment of such a society as that now proposed: for when such a valuable institution as that of Lloyd's was once destroyed, it would be impossible to restore it again. The information which had been received in this country through the agents of Lloyd's, from all parts of the world, had been of the highest consequence to its commercial interest.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it was quite clear that the petitioner was not entitled to be treated as a Crown debtor, but ought to be subject to the rules of the gaol which applied to his original imprisonment. The petitioner had, from time to time, made complaints to him, of the ill-treatment which he received in the gaol. He had instituted inquiries on the subject; and he felt it due to the magistrates of Dorset to state, that, under the greatest provocation which it was possible for them to receive, he could not conceive that any persons could have acted with more forbearance. The petitioner complained of the restrictions to which he was subjected; but when the House heard, that his object was, to corrupt all his fellow prisoners, they would easily imagine that the magistrates were compelled to take precautions to prevent the contamination. Personal restrictions likewise became necessary, in consequence of the menaces which the petitioner had made use of Carlile had posted in the gaol a regular written notice, that after a certain day he would consider his imprisonment illegal, and would feel himself justified in' killing the first keeper he might see. Carlile had sent a similar notice to him. Out of regard to the lives of those persons whose duty it was to ensure Carlile's safe custody, and from regard to Carlile's own safety, he (Mr. P.) had declared, that he thought the magistrates were right in taking measures to prevent him from committing the crime which he meditated. He was satisfied that no person, under the circumstances which applied to Carlile's case, could have been treated with more indulgence than he had been. He would take that opportunity of stating, that Mary Anne Carlile, the sister of the petitioner, had received a free pardon, and was discharged from gaol.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that care ought to be taken that Mr. Gourlay should not commit a repetition of the present offence. He thought it would be unwise to discharge him out of custody.
 Dr. Lushington  rose, and addressed the House as follows:
 The Attorney-General  said, that, in the observations which he proposed to address to the House, he should not occupy a great portion of its time; but, after the speech of his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down, he felt that he should not discharge his duty, unless he briefly expressed his opinion on this very important subject. He did not feel bound to admit, that he must take part with the honourable gentlemen opposite, unless he could affirm, that, if he had been obliged to sit in judgment on Mr. Smith, the proceedings against whom were the subject of the present discussion, he should have come to the same conclusion that the members of the court-martial had adopted. That, however, was not the question before the House. The persons composing that court must be allowed to have been as independent of the colony as he could pretend to be: they were acting under the sanction and responsibility of an oath: they came to their decision after deliberately hearing the evidence on both sides. He could not, therefore, take upon himself to say, because he should, perhaps, have come to a different conclusion; that they had acted erroneously; much less that they had acted cruelly, unjustly, and corruptly, and had been influenced by
 1261 1262 1263 1264 1265 1266 1267 1268 1269
 Mr. Wilber force  said:—Sir, the course pursued by the learned gentleman who has just sitten down, in his endeavour, I will not say to defend, but to palliate, the decision of the court-martial which condemned the missionary Smith, I cannot but regard as somewhat unfair; and, at least, as very different from that which would have been dictated by the liberal spirit of the judicial proceedings of this country. To do Mr. Smith justice, the learned gentleman should have considered all the circumstances of his situation, and all the particulars of his conduct; whereas he has picked out of the great mass of evidence two or three passages, which, taken by themselves, may produce an unfavourable impression towards Mr. Smith, but to which an abundant answer would have been supplied by other passages, and still more by a general view of Mr. Smith's situation and character, and of the circumstances of the witnesses against him, as well as of their testimony. It should ever be borne in mind, that, from Mr. Smith's entrance into the colony, the public prints were incessantly labouring to render the Christian missionaries, and more especially Mr. Smith himself, the object of the most bitter jealousy and hatred. They were represented as the agents and correspondents of the Anti-Slavery party in this country, who were endeavouring, through them, to excite the most dangerous discontents among the slaves, indifferent to the interest, and even to the personal safety, of the white population. More especially the chief newspaper of the colony, called, if I mistake not, the Guiana Chronicle, abounded in these misrepresentations; and as no one undertook the defence of the calumniated individuals, it is not wonderful, that, except in the minds
 1270 1271 1272 1273 1274 1275 1276 1277
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said:— 1278 1279 1280 1281 1282 1283 1284 1285 1286 1287 1288
 Mr. Portman  resisted the motion, on the ground that it contained false charges of excessive cruelty against the magistrates of Dorsetshire.
 Mr. Canning  said, that the usual course of proceeding was, for the House to hear the person in custody at the bar, before they came to any resolution with respect to him. He suggested that that proceeding should be postponed, and the individual kept in custody until a future day, in order that information might be obtained with respect to the state of his mind; which would enable the House to form a just estimate of his conduct. In offering this suggestion, however, he begged it to be understood, that he did not undervalue the strict and summary exercise of the privileges of the House, in cases such as that which had been brought under their notice.
 Mr. Brougham  repeated his belief, that Mr. Gourlay was insane.
 Mr. Brougham  begged leave to inform the House of what he knew respecting the subject which the Speaker had brought under their notice. Shortly after the House assembled, he was passing through
 1205
 Mr. Brougham , in reply, said:— 1295 1296 1297 1298 1299 1300 1301 1302 1303 1304 1305 1306 1307 1308 1309 1310 1311 1312 1313
 Mr. J. Williams  said: Mr. Speaker, my hon. and learned friend, for whom, on all accounts, I have great respect, and whose judicial and temperate manner forms so striking, and, so far as he is concerned, favourable a contrast to the violence of the proceedings which he undertakes to defend, began by observing, that the debate has this night assumed a new shape. I am at a loss to account for this observation; for surely the House cannot have forgotten, that my hon. and learned friend, who introduced this subject (Mr. Brougham), in a speech worthy of his abilities, arraigned the whole proceedings; the constitution of the court, the law under which they affected to act, their conduct during the trial, and the deficiency of the evidence upon which they undertook to convict. To my hon. and learned friend himself (Mr. Tindal) the observation may, with much greater truth, be applied. He, indeed, has introduced into the debate a perfect novelty. For neither the hon. member for Newcastle, connected with the colonial defiartment (Mr. W. Horton); nor my earned friend the member for Peterborough (Mr. Scarlett), who expressly abandoned the sentence, which my hon. and learned friend, by his new lights, steps forward to defend, ever thought of resting their palliation (for I cannot call it defence) upon those authorities which the fortunate adjournment for a week has enabled my hon. and learned friend to produce for the support and maintenance of the case. But, above all, never did those persons who had the conduct of the cause upon the spot, and who might be supposed to abound with precepts of colonial law, refer or allude to that recondite learning upon which now, for the first time reliance has been placed, as the foundation and justification of these proceedings. What said the deputy judge-advocate Mr. Smith?
 1246 1247 1248 1249 1250 1251 1252 1253 1254 1255 1256 1257 1258 1259 1260
 Mr. Hume  said, that Mr. Gourlay had been sent from Canada under a state of mental derangement. He had presented two or three petitions from him to the House, on the subject of the poor-laws. Some time since he proceeded to Wiltshire, where he had once rented a farm of the duke of Somerset, at 1,300 l
 Mr. Hume  said, that the petitioner did not complain of any particular persons, but merely of general ill-treatment. He, however, would not press the motion for printing the petition.
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not stand there to defend the petitioner's conduct, which had always been eccentric, and in the instance alluded to very violent. But the
 1204
 Mr. Hume  presented a petition from Richard Carlile, at present confined in Dorchester gaol for the publication of blasphemous
 1203
 Mr. Tindal  said, that, in rising to oppose the motion of his hon. and learned friend, it was not his intention to offer himself either as the apologist or the defender of certain little irregularities which had, it appeared, crept into the proceedings before this court-martial. If his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down had called upon the House to consider what would be the effect of negativing this motion, he (Mr. T.) begged of them to consider what would be the effect of adopting it [hear, hear!]. The motion of his hon. and learned friend was for an humble address to his Majesty, stating, on the part of that House, that they had taken into their most serious consideration the papers submitted to them relative to the trial of Mr. Smith, and that they felt it their duty to declare, that they contemplated with feelings of
 1238 1239 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244 1245
 Mr. Denman  assured the House, that the difficulty which he felt in expressing himself, in a manner adequate to his own feelings, was aggravated at this moment by following a speech so eloquent as that of the right hon. gentleman, and so full of statesman-like views, though leading, he thought, in the end, to a conclusion condemnatory of themselves. It seemed, indeed, extraordinary, that after the sentence of the court-martial had been given up as indefensible by every one who had spoken on the question; that, after the right hon. secretary had, as the climax, stated that the sentence had been annulled by the government; the House of Commons alone was to be prevented from expressing its disapprobation of if. But if, in point of fact, the sentence had not, up to this moment, remained unannulled, his learned friend (Mr. Brougham) would not have
 1289 1290 1291 1292 1293 1294
 Mr. Peel  observed, that in no instance was a person kept in permanent imprisonment who was incapable of discharging his fine. Prisoners in such a situation were always discharged by the Crown, after they had undergone a term of imprisonment which was considered commensurate with the fine which they had been sentenced to pay.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the case of the petitioner involved a question of much greater importance than any thing that could regard him personally; namely, whether an individual was to be subjected to excessive imprisonment for non-payment of a fine, when his incapacity to pay it was evident.
 The Speaker  rose and said, that he would take that opportunity, the House being then pretty full, to state to them a circumstance which deeply affected their privileges. Shortly after he had taken the chair, he was informed that an honourable member had been grossly assaulted by some individual in the lobby, or within the precincts of the House. He immediately directed the serjeant at arms to take the individual into custody. That had been done; and the prisoner now awaited the pleasure of the House. He understood that the name of the prisoner was Gourlay. The member who had been assaulted was the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea (Mr. Brougham). He wished to receive the directions of the House as to the course which ought to be taken.
 Mr. Speaker ; never in the whole course of my public life, when I have had occasion to address a public assembly, have I felt a greater solicitude to discharge my
 1207 1208 1209 1210 1211 1212 1213 1214 1215 1216 1217 1218 1219 1220 1221 1222 1223 1224 1225 1226 1227 1228 1229 1230 1231 1232 1233 1234 verbatim et literatim, 1235 —they do take our lives, When they do take the means by which we live.' —'like the base Indian, Threw a pearl away richer than all his tribe.' 1236 1237
 The Speaker  said, he understood it to be the pleasure of the House, that Mr. Gourlay should be kept in custody until the House received further information respecting him.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, that the learned doctor (Lushington), had advised every member of the House to read over the evidence on the trial of Mr. Smith before he gave his vote. He had read the evidence, and he declared conscientiously, that he saw no reason for finding Mr. Smith guilty of the crime with which he was charged, If he had been a petty-juryman, he would have acquitted Mr. Smith upon the evidence. A whole lunar month had been consumed by the court-martial in finding him guilty. On this subject he remembered a circumstance which took place in the early part of the revolutionary war. The present lord chancellor, then attorney general, had spoken for nine hours, to make out his charge of treason against Messrs. Tooke and Hardy. A witty friend observed to him at the time, that if such a sharp, shrewd chap as the attorney general, found it necessary to speak at such length, in order to substantiate his charge against the prisoners, they were sure to be acquitted. He could not help thinking, that the long period which Mr. Smith's trial occupied, proved the weakness of the case against him. The speech of the right hon. secretary for foreign affairs had not satisfied his mind it was a mere brilliant apology, and not a defence 'of the proceedings against Mr. Smith. He thought that that most bloody record ought to be blotted out; and, under that impression, he would vote with great pleasure for the motion.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that it became necessary for him, in the discharge of his duty, to move the first reading of five bills for the Reversal of Attainders, for which bills his majesty had been graciously pleased to signify his assent. The first bill was for reversing the attainder of lord Stafford, and with respect to that bill he wished it to be understood as the reparation for an act of injustice. The restoration of the other titles stood upon a different footing, for they were all acts of grace and favour. In addition to lord Stafford's bill, he had to propose the usual course of reading the bills for reversing the attainder of the earl of Mar, viscounts Kenmure and Strathallan, and baron Nairn.
 Lord Binning  said, there was much worthy of consideration in what had fallen from his hon. friend, and he trusted it would meet with the attention it deserved in the proper quarter; particularly as, by the old Scottish law, the claims of a collateral branch were not estreated by forfeiture. Connected as he himself was with the peerage of Scotland, it was a source of unaffected pleasure to see the ancient and illustrious house of Mar restored to its honours.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, it was satisfactory to receive from all parts of the House the admission, that the selection was made without the remotest influence of party feelings. There remained but two modes of proceeding; either an indiscriminate reversal of all the attainders, or a Selection. To the first mode, there were found objections, almost insurmountable. Indeed, some of those, lineally descended, did not, on considerations of property, wish for the extension of the bounty to them. In making a choice, government found the necessity of selecting those respecting whom no doubt existed regarding the original patent, as well as those who were desirous of preferring their claims. As the restoration of blood was, in the language of the law, a matter of grace and favour, he should not enter into any further explanation on the Subject, except to observe, that no duty could be more pleasant than that which had thus devolved upon him. As accidentally, the bill for the reversal of the attainder of the earl of Mar was the last brought in, he begged just to remark, that that earldom was one of the most ancient in the kingdom; and, according to lord Hailes, existed before any records of parliament.
 Mr. Maberly,  in moving that the report oh this bill be brought up, took occasion to review the acts relative to the Land-tax from its first imposition, down to the period when it was made perpetual by Mr. Pitt. After condemning the act which fixed the land-tax on the landed interest in perpetuity, and after pointing out the impolicy of fixing the price of its redemption at an exorbitant rate, he proceeded to state, that the present bill was intended to reduce the price of the redemption to such a rate as would be consistent with the existing state of the money-market. It would also provide for the payment of that price in ready money, and not by instalments, and for its application not to the funded but to the unfunded debt. He contended that if his plan were adopted, the chancellor of the Exchequer would, in all probability, be able, in the course of the next two years, to apply 34,000,000 l
 Mr. Herries  rose, for the purpose of moving that the report be brought up this day six months. He should not enter into any details, but should oppose the bill on the broad principle which had been so ably stated on a former night by the chancellor of the Exchequer. He contended, that the views of the hon. mover were by no means practicable. The idea that they were so could only have arisen in the hon. member's mind from his not having understood the nature of the subject. Originally the scheme for the redemption of the land-tax had operated beneficially, owing to the existing circumstances of the country; latterly, however, it had ceased to be so productive, in consequence of a change in those circumstances. In all schemes for its redemption, a sacrifice must be made either by the public or the individual. Now, it was absurd to suppose that an individual would voluntarily accede to a plan which demanded of him a sacrifice; and it was equally absurd to suppose, that the government could accede on behalf of the public to such a sacrifice as the adoption of the present bill would render necessary on its part. He then went into an examination of the charges on the unfunded debt, for the purpose of proving that the calculations of the hon. member were erroneous. This scheme could not enable government to reduce the whole of the unfunded debt, inasmuch as it would only produce 33,600,000 l l l l
 Mr. Grenfell  could not support the bill, which he considered as very injudicious in many of its details.
 Colonel Davies  wished to explain the reasons why he should support a temporary renewal of the Insurrection act. His general opinion as to the state of Ireland had not changed, but the conduct of the Irish government had changed; and as he thought they were well disposed to the mass of the people, he was inclined to intrust them with this act. There was evidence before the committee that tranquillity could not be maintained without it.
 Mr. Maberly  said, that viewing the measure in every possible point of view, he felt that it was wise and beneficial. He, however, would not divide the House on the question.
 Mr. Robertson  said, he was anxious to prove to the House the mischievous tendency of passing this bill, in the present state of Ireland. It would have the effect of aggravating their feelings, by making England appear to be leagued with one of the parties in Ireland, where it was notorious one party endeavoured to oppress and bear down another. He had recently received a letter from a person connected with one of those parties in Ireland, which was written for the purpose of showing him the determined hostility of the Roman Catholics against the Protestants there. The writer asserted, that the Catholics had taken an oath to exterminate the Protestants, man, woman, and child, on account of their religion. Now, there were 2,000,000 of Protestants in Ireland: and not one of them, he believed, had been put to death, except where some private feeling of wrong rankled in the mind of the party committing the outrage, and impelled him to transgress the law. The hon. member then read a paper, which was said to be sent forth by certain magistrates to whom the execution of the insurrection act had been intrusted. It was, he observed, one of the most inflammatory addresses ever published. After adverting to the frequent assemblage of
 1323 1324 1325
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he concurred with the opponents of the bill in admitting it to be unconstitutional and severe, and regretted its necessity; but as to its efficacy, he altogether differed from them. If it could be shewn that not only was the measure unconstitutional, but also inefficacious, then indeed the objections to it would be unanswerable; but he maintained, that every thing which had yet transpired on the subject, had proved its efficacy. It was the unanimous opinion of the members of the committee—men differing widely in their general political views—that it would be unsafe for parliament to separate without giving to the executive government in Ireland the
 1334 1335
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  vindicated the conduct of the magistracy, and contended that the law, which no one ever considered as a remedial measure, had been carried into execution with the least possible
 1337
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  said, he did not oppose this measure from any idea that its powers had been abused, or that it had been improperly acted on, either by the government of Ireland, the assessors, or the magistracy. He believed that no human being could do more to restrain the powers of government within mild and moderate limits than the marquis Wellesley had done. But he must oppose the measure, because it placed the magistracy, whom it vested with enormous powers, in a most invidious situation, with respect to the people of Ireland. Multitudes had been imprisoned, and few punished, under this act; the consequence of which was, that much irritation was excited, and little benefit effected. At the same time, he was bound to allow, that the magistrates and gentry of Ireland called for some strong and effectual powers of restraint and repression. But he would prefer to the operation of an Insurrection act, the institution of martial-law, in those provinces where the disturbances prevailed. Such a system of martial-law, for example, as that which the marquis Corn-wall is established in Ireland, at the time when the enemy was in the country.
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  opposed the motion. There were, he said, six hundred persons interested in the measure, who had nut had an opportunity of being heard by counsel against it.
 Mr. Plummer  also objected to the bill.
 Mr. Huskisson  regretted that the worthy alderman should offer any thing like a vexatious opposition to the passing of a measure, which had already been debated in every Stage. The two chartered companies who were interested in the bill had been heard by counsel against it, and he should certainly object to the hearing any more counsel,
 Mr. Grenfell  could not admit that the bill had been sufficiently discussed.
 Lord J. Russell  said, he should not oppose the bill as a matter of course at all times, and under all circumstances: for at the several periods when it had been proposed, he had not voted against it. When it was proposed in 1807, it was supported by Mr. Grattan, because a war then existed, and there was then a French party in the country; but, it was his decided opinion, that the measure was not called for by the actual state of Ireland, While the distresses which had prevailed in that country were the immediate causes of disturbance which rendered extraordinary measures necessary, perhaps the existence of the Insurrection act might have been permitted; but now that it was confessed on all sides, that there was no such urgent distress, he felt called upon to oppose the continuance of the measure; because, by consenting to it, he should admit, that whenever the mis-government of a country might have produced evils, the suspension of the constitutional law, or the introduction of measures foreign to that law, were to be applied as remedies. Sir Lawrence Parsons said of this act when it was first proposed, that it was a violation of the principles of a free constitution. He (lord J. R.) not only thought that it was such a violation, but that it was a clumsy contrivance, unworthy of an enlightened government. If we were told that in Austria, or Prussia, or Russia, a law was in operation, by which the people were confined without light in their houses for twelve out of the twenty-four hours, should we hesitate to pronounce such a law to be arbitrary and absurd? Upon referring to the evidence, it would be found, that many of the persons who had been taken up under the Insurrection act, were such as had staid out at the public houses until after 9 o'clock, while others had been in the pursuit of cattle or other no less lawful occupations. Even the benevolent intentions of the chancellor of the Exchequer, in diminishing the duty on distilleries, had been frustrated; because the poor people, thus encouraged to drink a little more whiskey, had been seduced into the clutches of the Insurrection act. A question had been asked Serjeant Lloyd, who had been employed in the administration of the act, whether the persons taken up under it, were not generally very desperate characters. He answered, that they were generally persons of good character, and poor helpless people, totally ignorant of the provisions
 1328 1329
 Mr. Canning  said, that after what the House had just heard, it was hardly expedient to follow the usual course of calling the individual to the bar [hear hear]. A great difficulty from thence arose, respecting the manner of disposing of this unfortunate man. He apprehended, however, that the most humane course would be, to detain him, without making any further order upon his case, until his friends should be consulted.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he felt as strongly as any man could feel, when it was his painful duty to propose this measure, that it was in some degree a departure from the principles of the constitution. He was quite aware that the severity of its enactments exposed it to be argued against as liable to abuse; yet he was conscious, also, that a state of things existed which called upon parliament to interfere with some means for the protection of property, and for putting down, even with extraordinary vigour, those lawless persons who were confederated to subvert the constitution. Those were the principles upon which he had formerly called for, and those were the grounds upon which he now rested the necessity of the measure. If any man would read over the evidence, he would feel satisfied that the state of things in Ireland required the application of some extraordinary measure. Previous to the introduction of the Insurrection act, the peaceable inhabitants of the county were compelled to have their houses barricadoed; and as soon as it had passed, the necessity for such precaution had ceased. Now, what gentleman would like to retire from the discharge of his public duties to such a country as that; or who would dare to reside in Ireland if parliament refused to pass the measure? It might be said, that this was a state of things which formerly existed, but that it was now at an end. He was ready to admit that the evil was not now in so aggravated a state; but, let it not be forgotten, that the decrease of disturbance was mainly owing to the Insurrection act. The question then was, should we or should we not continue this measure until the government had an opportunity of examining into all the causes of discontent, and of laying before parliament some measure for effecting the permanent tranquillity of the country. Much had been said of the present condition of Ireland resulting from centuries of misrule; and he would ask, whether there was any enthusiast so wild as to entertain an expectation, that the exertions of a few weeks could remove the evils of ages? He was convinced that this measure was essential to the security
 1330
 Mr. Abercromby  said, it was impossible that parliament, considering how often this law had been passed as a temporary measure, could consent to its re-enactment, without recording its own disgrace in sanctioning such repeated acts of misgovernment. In the view which he took of it, he regretted that he differed from the almost unanimous opinion of the committee. At the same time he was not at all disposed to undervalue the labours of that committee, as far as they had gone, they had been most important: a great deal of valuable information had been acquired by them which would, he had no doubt be of considerable service. Much, however, as he respected the exertions of the Committee, he could not be very sanguine in his hopes of the ultimate result of their labours. They, as a committee, could only recommend: they could not legislate. He was anxious, therefore, that too great expectations should not be raised. It was admitted on all hands, that a very strong necessity should exist to justify this bill. When he looked at the opinions of some most respectable individ-
 1331 1332 1333
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that, as a native of Scotland, he could not allow this opportunity to pass of testifying his cordial approbation of the course taken by his majesty in reversing these attainders. The restoration of the earl of Mar to the ancient title of his ancestors would be hailed with gratitude by the people of Scotland.
 Mr. Lambton  said, he rose to present a petition on the subject of the fine arts, from Mr. Benjamin Robert Haydon, an individual known for his talents as well as his misfortunes. The latter, he believed, were occasioned by no fault of his own, but by an enthusiastic attachment to the branch of art to which he had devoted himself, but which, however, it might lead to posthumous fame, could never, in this country, under existing circumstances, be cultivated with profit. A learned friend (Mr. Brougham) had, on a former occasion, presented a petition from Mr. Haydon, directing the attention of parliament to the art of historical painting; and that which he was now about to present referred to the same subject. He would state the substance of the petition. It set forth, that historical painting was less encouraged than any other branch of the art, although the Royal Academy and the British Gallery were established for the purpose of fostering and encouraging it. It was impossible that historical painting could be cultivated, unless it received public patronage. In Greece and in Italy, historical painting obtained public as well as private patronage: in Holland it received private patronage only. It was unnecessary to point out the difference between the two schools. It was only since the foundation of the Royal Academy, that students in this country had been afforded the means of pursuing their studies to advantage. The late king had been a great encourager of historical painting, having introduced some work of that nature into every church or chapel over which he had any control. But, in the course of time, the want of patronage was so strongly felt, that historical painting had nearly fallen into entire disrepute. In 1804, the British Gallery was established by private subscription, upon the prin-
 1317
 Mr. Monck  thought the House was much obliged to the hon. member for directing their attention to this subject; but was of opinion that the sacrifice proposed by him was too great. It would be giving up an annuity worth 40 years' purchase for 24 years' purchase.
 Mr. J. Smith  did not believe that the bill would ever be made to agree with the institutions of a free government. He condemned the report of the committee as a mere garbling and collecting of evidence to excuse the passing of the bill. There should have been an extensive inquiry; and the subject warranted the calling great numbers of the best informed and least partial of the Irish community to give information upon it. He did not scruple to say, that there seemed to have been a premeditated neglect and delay upon this point, as if on purpose to carry the bill with the less molestation. It was useless to expect tranquillity from the
 1326
 Mr. Hume  said, that some measure ought to be devised to relieve the country from the expense of collecting the land-tax. He had shown, on a former occasion, that, by the present mode of collection, a sum of 2,000,000 l 1322 l l
 Captain Bruce  regretted that, with the warmest approbation of the principle of these bills, he could not praise that selection which took the taint from the blood of the lineal descendants of the parties who had first suffered, while the collateral branches of others whose descent was pure in their own line were still thought fit to be excluded from his majesty's grace. Such was his own case: he was descended from a collateral branch of the family of lord Burleigh, and the attainder alone prevented that title from devolving upon him. When his majesty was in Scotland, he had felt it his duty to present a petition for the reversal of his family attainder; and he had never since heard why this partial restoration of honours was selected. He yielded to no man in loyalty to the House of Hanover, and most painfully did he feel the distinction by which he suffered on the present occasion. Though the blood from which he was collaterally descended from lord Burleigh, who died without issue, was pure and untainted, yet still was he, and those who were to succeed him, excluded from the royal grace. Was that exclusion to be perpetuated? [Cries of "hear."] He hoped that on some future occasion, his case, and that of others similarly placed, would be considered by the Crown with grace and favour.
 Mr. Denman  considered, that the renewal of the Insurrection act was paying too much for this inquiry; more especially as it was doubtful whether the act was not inefficacious. The report of the committee did not, he thought, deserve such an implicit mark of confidence; and of the evidence, as it was before the House, they could judge for themselves. He had understood, at the commencement of the session, from the secretary for Ireland, that the clause should not be renewed which enacted, that any person found in a public-house, whether licensed or not, between the hours of nine in the evening, and six in the morning, at any season of the year, should be liable to be transported for seven years. Yet this clause was not omitted in the bill which had been sent down from the House of Lords. The evidence gave them a little insight of the causes of the discontents in Ireland. From that evidence it appeared, that the high rents and tithes extracted from the miserable inhabitants, were among the principal causes of those discontents which this bill was intended to suppress. He perfectly agreed with an hon. member, that the renewal of the Insurrection act was calculated to counteract all the moral effect which might otherwise be expected from the improvement of the police, the magistracy, and the nightly patrol and watch, as well as the advantages which might be anticipated from the introduction of a better system of education in Ireland. These were all moral causes, which would operate for the improvement of Ireland, if the baleful influence of this act did not prevent their activity. Was this the way to tranquillize a country, by bringing all under the act of accusation, and accounting as guilty all who were not able to prove their innocence? These were acts which ought not to be granted to any set of men. The government which wished to receive such powers showed that it did not know how to govern a great country on the principles of a free constitution. Under no circumstances would he give his consent to the passing of such an act as this.
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that he was desirous of stating the reasons which induced him to vote for the renewal of the act, and he had the authority of his right hon. friend, the member for Waterford, for stating, that his assent to it was grounded on the same reason; namely, that the inquiry was still pending, and he had little doubt that the ultimate result would be, that such a case would be made
 1336
 Mr. Trant  said, that convinced as he was, that Ireland would relapse into a state of anarchy and confusion if some such measure as the present were not adopted, he could not vote for the amendment, which would leave the peaceable and loyal inhabitants exposed to every species of outrage.
 The Speaker  said, he had to submit to the consideration of the House a letter that he had received from Dr. Munro and sir G. Tuthill, who, at his desire, had visited Mr. Gourlay, at present, by the orders of that House, in the custody of the Serjeant at Arms. 1318
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that in the case of lord Stafford, his majesty was performing a memorable act of national justice, and in the case of the Scotch peers, one of royal clemency. There was something most affecting in the former, from
 1319
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said:—Unquestionably, Sir, I am very far from having any thing to complain of, either with respect to the tone or topics with which my hon. and learned friend has introduced his speech; and if the observations which I shall feel it my duty to make upon that speech, or the petition upon which it is founded, shall bear but a small proportion to his address, I hope he will do me the justice to believe, that it is not in consequence of any offence at what he has said, or any disrespect for his opinions. But, my hon. and learned friend must be fully aware, that though there are, in what he believed might be called the late Spanish colonies great questions involved, any thing which may fall from me on the part of his majesty's government would be likely to produce effects, which neither he nor I could wish to witness. I, therefore, must rather restrain every disposition
 1395 1396 1397 1398 1399 1400
 Mr. Bernal  could not but complain, that at the close of the session, and after so many discussions on the subject had taken place, the hon. member should have thought proper to introduce it again to the House in this manner. He thought it a little hard that the hon. member should not have afforded to those who were connected with the colonies, the means of replying to the statements now brought forward. He could not but complain of the manner in which the colonies of Jamaica and Demerara had been blended together, when, in fact, no connexion existed between them. Did the hon. member think it consistent with his duty as a christian senator to charge the whole of the white population of Jamaica with acting severely towards the slaves, because, in a moment of distress and irritation, they had acted with apparent severity towards two individuals? If he did—if on that single act he chose to make a general sweeping charge against the whole population—he (Mr. B.) was fully prepared to deny the charge, and to assert, that every means had been adopted in that island to improve the condition of the slaves. The hon. member had spoken of delay, and seemed to wish that something should be accomplished in a few weeks, which
 1417
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he rose, in the hope of bringing this discussion to an end. It was well known, that after frequent deliberation, the House had last year decided, that it was expedient to pursue a certain line of conduct towards the colonies, which line of conduct they afterwards embodied in certain resolutions, and recommended it to be adopted by his majesty's government. The government acquiesced in the recommendation so made to them, and this year announced to parliament their intention to carry the plan into effect. His hon. friend knew too well the sincere respect he entertained for him, to believe that it was his intention to say any thing unkind towards him; but he felt compelled to tell his hon. friend, and those who entertained similar opinions, that they must make up their minds either to let the government pursue the course which parliament had chalked out for them, or else to propose some other plan, and bring it fairly before the House. But, of all the proceedings that could have been adopted, he thought that which his hon. friend had made choice of was the most unfortunate. He had taken that opportunity, at the end of the session, to express his dissatisfaction at the course which had been pursued, and to regret that some other had not been preferred. His hon. friend thought the government was slow in carrying into execution measures for ameliorating the condition of the slaves. To this objection, he would answer, that the evil which it was their ob-
 1418 1419
 Dr. Lushington  called the attention of the House to the statement he had made on a former evening, on presenting a petition relative to the case of Le Cesne and Escoffery. Now, to show the spirit which existed against the coloured people, he found, that after they had been deported to St. Domingo, one witness had accused Le Cesne of having himself sold arms to the conspirators, at the very time he was in custody. He trusted the hon. secretary would furnish the House with all the documents, to prove that it was proper that two individuals released by the court of King's-bench at Jamaica, should be taken up within six hours afterwards and sent off to St. Domingo.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  began by answering the last question of the hon. gentleman, and for this purpose read a copy of the letter which had been sent out to the government of Barbadoes, on the subject of the outrages committed there. In that letter, his majesty's high displeasure was conveyed, at the occurrence of such a violent breach of the laws, and the most positive orders were given, that every possible step should be taken to bring all persons guilty on that occasion to punishment. The result of that communication could not yet be known to the government here. With respect to the first question, as to the treatment of the free people of colour, he would say, that a legal commission was now in operation in the West Indies, for the purpose of making inquiries respecting the laws and institutions of some of the islands, and? one object of that commission was, to examine into and report upon the condition and situation of the free people of colour there. With respect to the other question, he would answer, that it was the intention of government to make the order in council applicable to all those colonies which had not a local legislature. He would not enter into the general question. He was only anxious to point out the bad effect of any and every word of discussion on this subject, and to say how much the re-action was felt in the office to which he had the honour to belong.
 Sir F. Burdett  said:—I confess I have been quite at a loss to collect any precise and distinct idea from the explanations of the right hon. secretary. He seems to me to have shown great ingenuity in heaping together a vast number of words with very little meaning; for nothing like positive information is to be gathered from what he has uttered. I will not follow him through his nice distinctions between one kind of recognition and another. It appears to me to be a very simple word, with a very plain meaning. Whatever it be, it is clear that it is withheld; and, unfortunately, the recognition by the British government is infinitely a greater boon than the recognition by the parent state—an event, by the by, very little to be apprehended. That Spain will ever be able to subdue her revolted colonies, and replace the yoke they have thrown off, is, I am happy to say, even less to be apprehended. It is by no means a question of little moment to Great Britain; for our commercial interests connected with South America have grown of late into an enormous size: it is our policy, our interest, to take the lead in recognizing her independence; and, in recognizing South America, we confer an obligation not less upon ourselves than upon the independent states. It seems to me, then, that there must be some reason in the back ground, why the recognition has not hitherto been made—some other cause than any that has been avowed—why the
 1405
 Mr. Baring  observed, that if there had recently been a persecution of missionaries in the West-Indies, it had arisen from a sincere conviction in the minds of the planters, that they were not conducting themselves in the mild and gentle spirit of that religion of which they professed to preach the doctrines. He defied any person to point out any rational cause for the late insurrection at Demerara; which, if it had not been originally instigated, had certainly been much promoted by the proceedings of Smith. He complained, in strong terms, of the exertions
 1425
 Mr. Hutchinson  expressed great indignation at the term "manœuvres" being applied to the efforts made in that House to ameliorate the state of slavery in our colonies.
 Mr. Baring,  in explanation, said, that he had never charged the missionary society with fostering schemes that were likely to end in insurrection and murder. On the contrary, he thought that the missionaries were likely to effect much good, supposing them to steer clear of all projects of ameliorating the political condition of the slave.
 Mr. Baring  expressed his opinion that the minds of the members of the missionary society had become heated with respect to the subject of negro emancipation. They had organized establishments in every town in the kingdom, for the purpose of preparing petitions to parliament. The society viewed the West-India proprietors with the most deadly hostility, and had made up their minds to attain the object they aimed at, at the risk of creating a convulsion in the colonies. These were his opinions, and he would not shrink from declaring them. He imputed no improper motives to any gentleman in that House; but he could not help thinking that the hon. member for Bramber and some of his friends were incited to bring the question of slavery so frequently before the House, by some persons behind their backs.
 Mr. S. Rice  was of opinion, that the placing such a resolution on the Journals without any previous discussion, would create alarm in Ireland, and tend to defeat the object which the hon. member had in view.
 Sir C. Forbes  said, that the missionaries, if not narrowly watched, would cause our expulsion, not only from the West, but from the East Indies. In that opinion he knew he was not singular: nay, he would venture to say, that the majority of the House were of the same sentiments, if they had only the candour to avow them.
 Mr. Dominick Browne  said, he had been waiting ever since five o'clock to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. At that late hour, however, he would decline to bring it forward, but would content himself with moving it, in order that it might be placed on the Journals, with the intention of renewing it next session. The hon. member then moved, "That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, to represent to his Majesty that, as Protestants, we regret that the Reformation has made so small progress in Ireland, notwithstanding the establishment of a reformed church in that country for nearly three centuries:—To express our opinion to his Majesty, that the adherence of so large a mass of the people of Ireland to the Roman Catholic church, however erroneous, is founded in their conscientious conviction of the truth of its doctrines, as the laws, for one century highly penal, have constantly excluded persons professing that religion from places of honour or profit, thereby offering the
 1428
 Mr. D. Browne  said, that there had been an understanding between his right hon. friend opposite (sir G. Hill) and himself that he should be allowed to place his motion on the Journals.
 Mr. Ellice  concurred with the hon. member for London, in the well-deserved praise which he had bestowed upon his hon. and learned friend for bringing this subject forward. Had parliament prorogued without some declaration or discussion upon this most important subject, that neglect must have imparted the greatest uneasiness to all the commercial ranks in the country. In the out-ports, no less than in the city of London, did the deepest anxiety prevail as to the assurances which might follow from the government upon the presenting of this petition. All that he would say for the present was, that the simple recognition of their independence by Great Britain would do more to quell the disturbances and restore order to the colonies, than the recognition by Spain herself. He trusted, therefore, that he was not wrong in expecting that recognition would speedily flow from the lips of the right hon. secretary himself, convinced as he was, that it was high time that the British government should think of some means for putting upon a safe and solid footing the very considerable mercantile transactions which were now transacting between this country and the Spanish American colonies. He felt more anxiety on behalf of the commercial persons whose interests were involved, than on account of those who had accommodated the new governments with loans; the first case being one, which, from the present extent of the transactions, must more or less affect all the mercantile interests of every species whatsoever in this country. The recognition ought, therefore, to be no longer delayed than was absolutely necessary to the security and peace of this country. Already government had appointed commissioners who were sent out to inquire
 1401
 Colonel Trench  objected to the motion being put on the Journals.
 Mr. Canning  thought it would be better to withdraw the notice.
 Mr. Canning  said, he did not mean to throw the slightest blame on those who employed their capital in loans to the states of South America. All men had a perfect right to advance their capital in foreign governments, if they thought fit; but he honestly owned, that he could not understand how those who had so employed their capital, were not interested in the question of recognition. The House must allow him to say, that parties so engaged ought not to carry with them the force and influence of the British government, in order to compel foreign states to fulfil their contracts.
 Mr. Brougham  said:—I do not rise to prolong this discussion beyond a few minutes; but I cannot help expressing my gratitude to my hon. and learned friend, for the masterly and comprehensive view which he has taken of this question, second to none in the importance of the principles which it involves. I am exceedingly well satisfied also with a great part of the statement made by the right hon. secretary of state, and I rather think that the parties from whom this petition proceeds, as well as those whom they virtually represent, and whose welfare is so materially concerned in the security of commerce, will feel that they have no reason to complain. Nothing, undoubtedly, can be more satisfactory than the information conveyed in the sort of supplement made by the right hon. gentleman. To have consented to join in any congress would certainly, independent of other objections, have fettered the British government in its proceedings towards South America, including also the former Spanish province of Mexico. But, the most satisfactory portion of what fell from the right hon. gentleman I take to be this:—that though, from the want of official, not authentic, information (for I freely admit the distinction between authentic news that cannot be doubted, and official intelligence on which alone a government can proceed) the British cabinet cannot yet pronounce a formal acknowledgment of the independence of the states of South America; yet, when official assurance shall have been communicated to it from its accredited agents, that one of these great and now free countries is so established as to be able to maintain her own separate and substantive existence, then that formal recognition shall
 1402
 Mr. Brougham  said, that so far from his hon. friend having brought forward motion after motion with respect to the question of slavery, this was the first time during the session, that he had introduced the subject. Neither had there been any petitions presented on the subject until the latter end of last session.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he could not agree with those who censured his hon. friend for taking that opportunity, evidently the last which could occur in the session for expressing his opinion upon a series of measures which had never been discussed and upon some extraordinary incidents which had only recently come to his knowledge. But, were he and his friends to be accused of having too constantly
 1423 1424
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, he did not rise to protract the discussion by any lengthened observations, but rather for the purpose of asking two or three important questions of the hon. secretary opposite. With regard to the charge against his hon. friend, who had been guilty of the grave offence of taking the present opportunity of expressing his feelings and delivering his conscience, he must say, that he thought it most desirable that there should have been some discussion. He thought it most fit and proper that the House and the country should know how far be and his friends were responsible for any irritation that prevailed. He admitted that to a certain extent they were responsible. They had used all their endeavours to advance that great and important question, the result of which would be, to raise seven hundred thousand of our fellow-beings from the lowest state of degradation. For himself he could say that he did not lament any part he had ever taken in these discussions. He considered that he and those gentlemen who acted with him were responsible for the measure until they had succeeded in bringing about a full and entire amelioration of the condition of the slaves. He did not expect that this was a result to which their exertions could hastily be brought; for neither he nor his friends had any other expectation than that those unhappy beings who were now slaves must continue so until the end of their lives; but he did think that, by a proper and timely application of the requisite means, the children of those slaves might be made capable of enjoying their freedom; that when so capable they should be allowed to enjoy it; and that the right should not be delayed beyond the time that they were capable of enjoying it. This he thought might be effected by his majesty's government; and so far they were answerable. For such efforts as were likely to bring about this desirable result, he and his friends were responsible. They were not however answerable for the violent language which had been recently held in the colonies. When they talked of flinging off their allegiance, and throwing their weight into the scale of a
 1421 1422
 Mr. Butterworth  defended the missionaries from any disposition to interfere with the political concerns of the colonies; Their instructions were most positive against any such interference, and he believed that they were all disposed to adhere to such instructions.
 Mr. Hume  observed on the impolicy of this country in withholding a recognition of independence from states absolutely independent. He thought it extraordinary that government should persist in refusing to admit the independence of St. Domingo, which had been established upwards of twenty years. He recommended
 1406
 Mr. Hume  felt great pleasure that this subject had been taken up by his learned friend, especially as the case was only one of a very numerous class of grievances. He was of opinion that, after the lapse of a certain number of years, the government ought to have no stronger claim on a man's property than any of his private creditors. The noble lord had said, that communication had been made in 1808 to Mr. Workman's sureties, regarding the deficiency in that individual's accounts. Would the noble lord undertake to say that such communication had been received by the sureties, or produce any answer from them admitting the receipt of it? The noble lord had likewise said, that the sureties became so by their own voluntary act. He admitted it; but it ought not to be forgotten, that they became sureties under the idea that government would perform its duty, in regularly overlooking the accounts of the party for whom they engaged, and in communicating to them on the instant any deficiencies which it might discover in them, Now, it appeared from the noble lord's own statement, that Mr. Workman gave in his accounts in 1800, and that nothing was said to the sureties about any deficiency in them till 1808. How came it, too, that sixteen years had been allowed to pass over in silence since that notice was said to have been given? He thought it was a great oppression on the part of the government to bring forward this claim at this period against the sureties, who, by the negligence of government, had lost the opportunity which they once had of recovering the money of Mr. Workman. Mr. Workman had gone to America
 1344
 Mr. T. Wilson  said, that, as one of the members for the city of London, he thanked the hon. and learned member for the masterly manner in which he had discharged his duty to the petitioners.
 Colonel Bagwell  observed, that cause and effect had never been more clearly connected in any case than they were in the resolutions which the House adopted in the last session of parliament, and in the recent insurrection of the blacks in Demerara.
 Mr. Evans  justified the conduct of the missionary society, and said it was highly improper to charge them with promoting schemes which were likely to end in insurrection, bloodshed, and death.
 Mr. Huskisson  wished to set the House right on one point, namely, that the insurrection at Demerara had not arisen in consequence of the cruel treatment of the negroes on the plantation "Success." Having been aware that his hon. friend, was the proprietor of a plantation there, he had asked him for some explanation of the transaction, and his answer was, that he was quite at a loss to know in what manner the statement could have originated. His hon. friend had transmitted positive instructions, that every measure should be adopted for the amelioration of the condition of the slaves on his property.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that no circumstances would induce him to agree to the motion.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, if his hon. friend had proposed that the extirpation of this enormous evil should take place in days or months, or in less than a course of years, long as he had acted with him, he should decline going further with him: but, there was a great difference between proceeding rapidly to a point, and receding from it. He thought there existed too little disposition in the colonies to afford protection to the free people of colour, and contended, that such a neglect on the part of the colonial governments could only have the dangerous effect of disposing those people to make common cause with the negroes, a circumstance which, if it ever did occur, would be productive of most
 1420
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, he had not thrown out any reflections upon the collective population of the island of Barbadoes. He well knew that the sentiments entertained by the higher orders of the planters in Barbadoes with respect to the treatment of their slaves differed very materially from those entertained by the lower orders; but, unfortunately, the assembly of the island was so constituted, that the sentiments of the lower orders generally prevailed in it, and there by prevented any great improvement in the state of the slave population. He likewise said, that he was only performing an act of justice to lord C. Somerset, the governor at the Cape of Good Hope, in observing, that he had exerted himself in looking at the religious education of the slaves in that colony, even before the subject was placed under his consideration by the vote of that House. The charges which had been brought against the missionary society were supported by no proof. From the bottom of his soul he believed that no person connected with the missionary so
 1427
 Mr. Wilberforce,  in rising to present a petition for the Abolition of West-India Slavery, from the town and vicinity of Carlow, said: 1407 1408 * * 1409 1410 1411 1412 1413 1414 1415 1416
 Mr. Speaker  I hold in my hand a petition from the Merchants of the city of London who are engaged in trade with the countries of America formerly subject to the crown of Spain, praying that the House would adopt such measures as to them may seem meet, to induce his majesty's government to Recognize the Independence of the states in those countries who have in fact established independent governments. In presenting this petition, I think it right to give the House such information as I possess relating to the number and character of the petitioners, that it may be seen how far they are what they profess to be; what are their means of knowledge; what are likely to be the motives of their application;
 * 1345 1346 1347 1348 1349 *
 Sir F. Blake  was of opinion, that the House ought to enjoin the colonial legislatures to do what was right; and if they did not obey the injunction willingly, compel them to obey it. He was sorry to observe that the right hon. secretary of state could not abandon, even upon this subject, his darling scheme of neutrality: he meant, that he allowed both parties to do what they liked, without interfering to check the excesses of either. The right hon. secretary thought he could satisfy the people of England by saying, that slavery should be abolished. Now, he would tell the minister, that he for one was not satisfied with this declaration. He must know not only the year, but the month, the week, nay, the very day, when slavery was to be abolished, before he could be satisfied. The resolutions of the last session had neutralized expectation; and those of the present session had extinguished the last rays of expiring hope. It was the insertion of three little words that had doneall the mischief—those three words were, "the earliest period." It was clear that by those words, either something was meant or nothing. Now he thought that nothing was meant by them, and he would tell the House why. The words "the earliest period" were no better than the words "some time or other;" and every body knew that "some time or other" meant no time at all. The
 1426
 Sir G. Hill  said, that his hon. friend had misunderstood him.
 Sir G. Rose  observed, that, under the present constitution of society in the West-Indies, with a population of 600,000 negroes, standing in need of religious instruction, and under the difficulty that existed, of getting clergymen of the church of England to go there, we should be grateful to those missionaries, who, under a sense of religious duty, devoted themselves to such a labour. As to the people of the West-Indies, the House was bound to look with great indulgence to their conduct, when it recollected how remiss this country had been in providing them with spiritual instruction.
 Sir J. Mackintosh  said, that Mr. Workman was a man of considerable talent, and had filled a high judicial station under the government of the United States of America. There was no account of his death. Indeed, within the last three years, he had received a law book written by him. He did hope, that the publicity given through the ordinary channels of the proceedings of that House would advise him, if living, of what had passed; and he had no doubt he would at once meet the claims of the government.
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose and said: *
 Sir James Mackintosh,  in moving that the petition be printed, said:—I feel great satisfaction that the hon. member for London, with the knowledge he must
 1403
 Sir J. Mackintosh : —I wish to add one striking fact on the subject of recognition. The United States of America accompanied their acknowledgment with a declaration of their determination to adhere to neutrality in the contest between Spain and her colonies. A stronger instance cannot be adduced of the compatibility of recognition and neutrality.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he rose for the purpose of presenting two petitions to the consideration of the House. He should begin with that which adverted to a case of individual hardship, and subsequently submit the other, which referred to the general interests of the empire. The individual who made his complaint to the House, was aware that he could not obtain here a specific redress for the grievances of which he complained; but he trusted, that, under the extraordinary circumstances of the case, and the severity of the evil which, through no fault of his, was now about to be visited on him, he might be able, through the authority and; power of the House of Commons, to have extended to him the lenity and indulgence of the War-office. About twenty-five years ago the petitioner, Mr. Robert Bell, the proprietor and editor of "The Weekly
 1341 1342
 Lord Palmerston  said, he would state the circumstances of this case very shortly, that the House might see that it was not that case of hardship which the learned gentleman had described it to be. The petitioner, Mr. Bell, had become surety for Mr. Paymaster Workman; and it was only in consequence of his joining with another gentleman in a surety-bond, that the public money had ever been intrusted into that person's hands. As it was therefore by there own spontaneous act, that they had rendered themselves liable for Mr. Workman's deficiencies, he did not see what reason they had to complain of being now called upon to make them good. Now, Mr. Workman ceased to act as paymaster in 1800, and had then rendered his accounts. Any body who had heard the statement of the learned gentleman would suppose that, from the year 1800 to the year 1824, no step had been taken by government to examine those accounts, or to make Mr. Workman's sureties cognizable for the errors which they contained. Now, the reverse was the fact. In the year 1808, Mr. Workman's accounts were examined. The result of that examination was communicated to him immediately. Abstracts of the examination were also sent to the agent of the corps. The agent of the corps, in return, applied to the War-office, for information as to the residence of Mr. Workman's sureties. That information the War-office communicated, and the agent then wrote to the sureties, informing them of the sum in which Mr. Workman had left his accounts deficient. There was, therefore, no fault attributable to the War-office, for not having given the sureties the opportunity of settling these accounts with their principal. These accounts of Mr. Workman formed part of the arrears, which, owing to the multiplicity of accounts, accumulated during the war; and it was not till very lately that they had again fallen under the notice of the department with which he was connected. Upon finding them unsettled in 1824, he had ordered them to be revised, and had also directed application for the balance of them to be made to the sureties. In consequence of certain rules which he had laid down in his office with regard to the accounts of deceased pay-
 1343 l l
 Mr. Alderman Wood  charged the petitioners and the lessees of the estates near Londonderry, held under the Irish Society, with great ingratitude. The corporation had been uniformly good landlords. They built schools, and provided,
 1434 l
 Mr. Secretary Peel  was not prepared to affirm or deny, at the instant, any of the allegations in the petition. He had had some experience of the conduct of Dr. Trevor, and from that knowledge he could be brought but very slowly to believe any thing to his disadvantage. It would be unjust to the accused person, that the charge against him should be generally dispersed, without any opportunity being offered for answering it. He trusted, therefore, that the learned gentleman would be content with laying the petition on the table. Early in the next session the subject might be properly investigated.
 Mr. Hutchinson  hoped his majesty's government would pledge themselves to take the case of the petitioner into consideration. The prayer of the petitioner for remuneration for his great loss of property was wholly unconnected with the merits or demerits of Dr. Trevor. Having unfortunately resided in Ireland at the period to which the petition alluded, he begged leave to state, that the outrages in Ireland, from 1794, to the time of the rebellion, which rebellion, in his conscience, he believed those outrages
 1438
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he rose to present a petition, which differed from the last in most of the particulars. It contained no painful references to those sad scenes of anguish and woe which went before, which accompanied, and which followed, the rebellion in, Ireland. It was couched in terms so appropriate; it stated views so accurate; it contained sentiments so correct and. just; that he had no hesitation in saying that the duty of offering it to the consideration of the House was as highly gratifying to him, as the putting it forward was creditable to the petitioners. The petition was signed by a number of gentlemen forming themselves into a Catholic association in Dublin; and they met for the just and laudable purpose, of instituting measures for recovering, by fair, legal, and constitutional means, rights which had, in. his opinion, been only too long and unjustly withheld from the people of that, country. The petitioners complained, that they had been most grossly misrepresented—if not in the speeches of some gentlemen in parliament, at least in those channels which were known generally to convey accurate information to the country of what passed within the walls. And though the petitioners would not pretend to any knowledge of what actually passed in the House, they complained that the representations of it tended in this instance, to injure their characters and feelings, and, what was of more importance to them, those interests of Ireland which it was their chief object to promote. The petitioners greatly desired to partici-
 1439 of 1440
 Mr. Secretary Peel , in moving the order of the day for the second reading of this bill, said, that in wishing that the bill should not proceed any further this session, he was not actuated by any hostility to the measure. He approved of the principle on which it proceeded, and had a high respect for the commissioners, on whose unanimous report it was founded. But as be understood that there was an anxious desire  on
 The Lord Advocate  contended, that as it was not proposed that the bill should take effect till after the 11th of May, 1825, there would be ample time in the next session to pass it before that date. The report was unanimous, allowing for certain slight shades of opinion, which it was not held necessary to mark, and there had been no understanding, that its recommendations should not be carried into effect this year by the passing of the bill upon the table. He was persuaded that delay would not defeat it.
 Mr. Kennedy  said, that if the House had been reduced to the necessity of postponing this bill, the conduct of government had placed it in that predicament. He was afraid that by the clamour which was raised, and the ignorant opinions which were expressed, the measure would ultimately be sacrificed.
 Lord Binning  thought the House ought to avoid the appearance of thrusting down the throats of the people of Scotland, a measure which they conceived to be second to none in importance since the act of Union. The proposed delay was essentially necessary to ensure the success of the measure.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he consented to the postponement of the measure out of a feeling of respect for the people of Scotland, who were at present greatly opposed to the bill. The conduct of government had been censured in this question; but let the House remember that, up to a very late period, there was no idea of the kind of feeling which existed on the subject. He would, however, venture to predict, in opposition to the predictions of gentlemen opposite, that in the course of the next session this bill would substantially pass into a law. In proposing delay, he had no other object in view than to soothe the present hostile feeling, and by soothing to overcome it.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that according to promise, in moving that the House should resolve itself into a committee on the bill, he proposed to state shortly the nature of the negotiations out of which it proceeded. He took the liberty of doing this, because, although the bill was more immediately in the hands of his right hon. friend the president of the Board of Control, the treaties from which it-emanated originated when he (Mr. C.) had the honour to fill the office which his right hon. friend now held. In order to form a correct judgment with respect to the transactions which he was about to detail to the House, the situation in which the Dutch were placed with regard to East-India possessions at the last general peace should be called to mind. At that period all the possessions which had been taken from the Dutch during the war were, by- treaty, restored to them. He was not now called
 1443 1444 1445 l 1446 l 1447
 Mr. Robertson  condemned the treaty, and contrasted the negligence of the English negociators, with the precaution of the Dutch. By giving up Bencoolen we should greatly injure our China trade, which at present produced a revenue of three millions annually. The occupation
 1449
 Mr. Wynn  stated, that the passing of this bill would make no difference as to the execution of the treaty to which it referred, inasmuch as it had been already ratified, and guaranteed by the good faith of the country. The speech of the hon. member for Aberdeen referred rather to the treaty of 1814 than to the present treaty, as he did not seem acquainted with the places to which allusion was made in the latter treaty. He denied that, in case of war, our trade to China would be at the mercy of the Dutch. Bencoolen was not a fortification of any strength. When we were at peace with the Dutch, we were entitled by this treaty to friendly offices at Bencoolen; and when we went to war with them, he had no doubt we should be able to take it. He contended that we had not been guilty of any breach of faith to the native powers in ceding these islands to the Dutch, and further argued that the price of spices had not been increased, but, on the contrary, had been diminished by their cession.
 Mr. Hume  reminded the House that the superannuation act had arisen out of a recommendation of his majesty to make a reduction in the salaries of the public officers proportioned to the change which had then taken place in the currency. The House accordingly did so, and he now called upon it not to be led away by erroneous principles of compassion. The noble marquis who brought that measure into parliament told them, that if a reduction of 15 per cent were made in the salaries of the clerks above 200 l
 Mr. Bankes  seconded the amendment. This bill had not been sufficiently considered; and though it was very extensive of itself, the hon. member for Weymouth had wished to mix up with it another question totally independent of it. The reduction of salary to the higher officers of state was a voluntary measure, and was limited to a duration of five years. The reduction of salary to the inferior clerks was made perpetual. This bill would entail an annual expense of at least 20,000 l
 Mr. Croker  observed, that before the superannuation bill was brought in, a committee, consisting of the heads of departments, had sat daily at the chancellor of the Exchequer's and had revised and reduced all the offices. In his own office every clerk had lost 50 l l l
 Dr. Lushington  approved of the bill, and thought that the chief officers of state were under-paid.
 Mr. C. Forbes  complained that the secretary to the Board of Control was the only public officer for whose services, however long, no provision was made by law. He recommended some proceeding to remedy that hardship.
 Mr. Canning  was of opinion, that the
 1454
 Sir C. Forbes , in allusion to what had been said of the grasping spirit of the Dutch government in India, said, that in this respect there was not much difference between the Dutch and the English powers in that quarter. There were six of one, and half a dozen of the other. The ruling principle of both was rapine. In looking over this treaty he could consider it in no other light than as a division of spoil between the English and Dutch governments, in which no attention whatever was paid to the claims of the native powers. The arrangement had several advantages upon the face of it: but experience of the Dutch character had taught him to fear, that those advantages would not remain long in our possession. Indeed, he had that very day received information from Sincapore, containing an account of the success of the Dutch expedition against Borneo, which induced him to suspect that their designs upon that island would be quickly followed by similar designs upon Sumatra, and the other islands of the Archipelago which we had ceded to their tender mercies. Now he would ask the right hon. secretary whether, when he signed this treaty, he had any knowledge that the Dutch had sent an expedition against Borneo; and whether he would have signed it if he had known that fact? He regretted the precipitation with which our negociators had acted. If they had waited for the arrival of sir S. Raffles, which was daily expected, they might have escaped many of the errors into which they had fallen. He allowed that the intentions of our negociators were good, but contended that many of the provisions to which they had assented were not the most wise and prudent.
 Mr. Bright  opposed the bill, because he believed the treaty which it ratified to be a breach of good faith to the native powers and was only made by the Dutch for the purpose of being violated. He contended, that the islands ceded, were part and parcel of the property of the Crown of England, and that being such, they could not be ceded without the consent of parliament.
 Mr. Goulburn  observed, that as he had been in his present office only two years, it could not be expected that he should be able, at a moment's notice, to give an immediate answer to the allegations contained in the petition. He trusted, however, that the House would not argue, from his silence on the subject, against the character of any person whom the petition might be intended to implicate.
 Mr. Abercromby  confessed that he was much disheartened by the speech of the right hon. gentleman, as after the delivery of it, it would be a mere mockery to hold out to the people of Scotland the slightest hope that the bill would ever be passed
 1441
 Mr. John Smith  observed, that the petitioner had applied to him to present the petition, but really, without having the strongest reasons for believing the allegations of the petition, he did not feel himself justified in presenting it. There were parts of the allegations so revolting to human nature, that he would not enter into them; but he agreed, that it was indispensable to the character of the House and of the country, that they should investigate the disgusting tale; for never in the worst of times had there been any thing more monstrous. If the petitioner made out his case, it would certainly be the duty of the House to take care that he should be fully compensated.
 Mr. Hume  was of opinion it would ultimately turn out that the concessions which this country had made were of greater importance than the right hon. gentleman would have them appear. He condemned the policy which the right hon. secretary's predecessor in the foreign office had pursued, with regard to our Indian possessions. The noble lord, by giving up the island of Java, had not only, broken faith with the natives, whom he turned over, bound hand and foot, to the Dutch, but had inflicted a deep wound on our commercial interests. The right hon. gentleman had said, that it was thought right, at the conclusion of the war, to favour the Netherlands government. But, if that were to be the excuse for surrendering Java, why had not all the Dutch possessions been abandoned on the same principle? Why did England retain the Cape of Good Hope, Demerara and Essequibo. The cession of Java, he maintained, took place in utter ignorance of the interests of England, and to the great surprise and joy of the Dutch. Notwithstanding the ridicule which the right hon. gentleman attempted to cast upon governor Raffles, if government had acted upon the plans of that officer, they would have avoided those blunders which they had committed. Every act of our government in the East Indies went upon the very same principle which the right hon. gentleman had that evening turned into ridicule. He could never agree to the present bill, because the treaty which it ratified violated almost every other treaty which we had made for years past with the native powers. It was idle to suppose that this treaty would put an end to the heart-burnings and jealousies which we had had for years past with the Dutch. It might allay them during a period of peace; but they would revive in full vigour whenever hostilities should take place?
 1448
 Mr. Astell  contended, that the treaty was calculated to put an end to all the differences which existed between the English and Dutch governments. He denied that it gave the command of the Straits of Sunda to the Dutch. As we had Prince of Wales's island at one end of them, Sincapore at the other, and Malacca in their centre, we had full command of those Straits, and therefore could not receive any material annoyance in our trade with China.
 Mr. W. Courtenay  regretted that the bill had not been brought forward earlier, but circumstanced as they now were, he was prepared to postpone the measure to another session. There certainly had been
 1442
 Mr. Money  highly approved of the treaty. In Borneo the Dutch had only a few military settlements at the mouths of rivers, and we were left at full liberty to trade with all that great island, abounding in the richest productions of the earth. The native trade to Sincapore, from the Eastern Archipelago, was very considerable. The; Dutch settlements on the
 1451
 Mr. Trant  observed, that the arrangement which the treaty had sanctioned, had received the approbation of the commercial houses interested in the trade of the Indian Archipelago. The cession of the Dutch settlements on the continent of
 1450
 Sir G. Hill  presented a petition from the parishioners of Templemore, of which parish the cathedral of Derry was also the parish church. This petition, he said, had been adopted at a vestry lately held, the dean of Derry presiding. The object and prayer of it were, to induce the House to institute an inquiry, whether any economy fund existed applicable to the repair of the cathedral. The petition stated that the parishioners had been for a length of time deprived of the use of the cathedral. This had produced a feeling of soreness and anxiety amongst as numerous and respectable a protestant congregation as belonged to any cathedral in the united kingdom. It had been repeatedly urged by the dignitaries of the diocess of Derry, that the cathedra], with respect to any claim of repair, was no more than any parish church in the diocess; the parishioners had accordingly assessed themselves, in the year before last, to an amount, sufficient to put an entire new roof on the cathedral, but further repairs were necessary, beyond the convenience of the parish to levy all at once. They, therefore, under the authority of an act of last session, proposed to the Board of First Fruits in November last, to rate themselves to the extent of 60 l l l l l l 1433 l l
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he held in his hand a petition from Mr. John Lawless, the proprietor of a newspaper published in Belfast, and who in that capacity might be considered more than a single item in casting up the account of public opinion. The prayer of the petitioner was, that the legislature would put a stop to all religious processions in Ireland. That such a measure was desirable, he believed every member would willingly agree, though there would undoubtedly be differences of opinion as to the mode of carrying it into execution. That these processions widened the breach between the members of different religions, no man in his senses would now dispute. The petitioner stated, that all attempts to put an end to them, except by law, would be utterly useless; and he (sir J. M.) begged leave to add, that if it were thought of consequence to the country that parliament should avow its disapprobation of them, as it recently had done, there could be no harm done in promulgating that disapprobation in the shape of a law, prohibiting their future celebration. He had observed in a newspaper, that the Orange society of Dublin had recently published a notice to the different provincial societies, recommending them to discontinue the procession on the 12th of July next. He applauded the Orange society for what they had done upon this occasion; though, if the same degree of justice were meted out to them which they were in the habit of meting out to the Catholics, it might be said, that the notice which they had given was very much in the shape of an order, and
 1435
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he rose to present a petition from an individual who complained of a succession of the most unexampled wrongs, connected with those scenes which the tragic drama enacted in Ireland had exhibited for the last twenty-five years. It appeared from the petition, that Mr. Bernard Coile, about thirty years ago, introduced into the north of Ireland, a branch of the cotton manufacture from Scotland, where he was educated. It was the branch of the muslin manufacture. In giving to Ireland, above all other nations, any such boon as the introduction of a new manufacture, he was a benefactor to his country. About the years 1795 or 1796—when first the Orange system was introduced into the north of Ireland; and when the county of Armagh was in that state of anarchy and violence which had called forth the memorable declaration of lord Gosford—the petitioner was arrested under a warrant, certainly without a parallel in the judicial records of this country. In that warrant, Mr. Coile was described as a reputed Papist, and with having also given ball-cartridge to a soldier with the view of overturning the government of the country. On that serious accusation he was never brought to trial, and was subsequently enlarged. The malice of his enemies was not satisfied. Though enlarged, he continued to be annoyed by a series of petty vexations. The result was, that he was compelled to leave that very county in which he had introduced a new branch of manufacture, and went to reside at Dublin. Soon after broke out the rebellion of 1798. Yet, such was the conduct of Mr. Coile at that time, that he was not for a single hour deprived of his liberty. In 1803, he was arrested as a state prisoner, and sent to the gaol
 1436 1437
 Sir J Mackintosh  consented to withdraw the petition for the present session, with the view of bringing it forward as soon as the House should meet in the next, but not with any view of invalidating any allegation in the petition.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he felt that many of the charges were, in fact, against himself, and not against the duke of Athol, and he rose with a confident expectation that he should be able to satisfy the House of his innocence. One accusation was, that the House of Keys had been deprived of their right of forming part of the criminal jurisprudence of the Isle of Man, and it was insinuated that he (Mr. Peel) had so excluded them, because they had displeased the governor. The question of their right to sit in the criminal court, and thus to control the jury, was disputed in 1823; and he had required
 1461 1462
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that if this bill had come to them as an ordinary measure of government, he should have spoken with greater confidence; but seeing that it came from a committee, composed of nearly as large a proportion of independent as of ministerial members, he certainly felt some difficulties in standing up against it, But, even in the fact of such a committee being resorted to, he thought there
 1464 1465 "O'Neil grand master"
 Mr. Calcraft  concurred with his hon. friend in thinking this bill odious and unconstitutional, and that it would be a blot and disgrace to our Statute-book, if it remained on it a moment longer than the situation of Ireland required it; but still he would support the measure, because in his conscience he believed, that, from the present temper of the people of Ireland, it would not be safe to let it remain without such an act. He would ask any man, whether he thought that Ireland could at present be left to the ordinary administration of the law; and if not, what measure could be more effectually applied to it than the one then before the House? This was a fair issue to rest the question upon; and he thought it would be most unwise to leave the country, in its present state, without some such protection; and this was the short history of his support of the measure.
 The Attorney-General  said, the privy-council was the proper tribunal to which
 1463
 Mr. Secretary Peel  brought in a bill for the better Empanelling of Juries. The right hon. gentleman observed, that at that late period of the session it was not his intention to press the measure forward, as it was undoubtedly one of very great importance. Its object was, to consolidate
 1469
 General Hart  said, there was a very simple measure by which Ireland might be restored to tranquillity. It was merely, to surround the towns and large villages of that country with walls. He did not mean such walls as those of a regularly fortified place; but walls not much higher than our common park walls in this country. Let them be flanked with a few towers, with two or three guns on each, and by this means such protection would be afforded to the wives and children of the loyal and well-disposed inhabitants of the country, that they would have no hesitation in opposing themselves to the disaffected. Then government would know the strength of those who were disposed to support it, which was much greater than was imagined; but at present they were afraid to act, not having a sufficient protection for their families.
 Mr. Bright  thought, that much of the grievance stated in the petition might be referred to the bickering and heat which prevailed in the island. But certainly the Keys should have been informed, not only of the reasons for the dismissal of their judge, but also on what grounds their right of forming a part of the criminal jurisprudence had been suspended. That it had been their right, was declared in the report of the commission of 1791; and the book of law, which was then for the first lime reduced from oral and uncertain precepts, issuing chiefly from the deempsters and the officers of the council, to a written and ascertained form, stated, that this right was of the very highest antiquity in the tradition of that law. He could not help feeling that government had proceeded too hastily in withdrawing that right, before the question had been solemnly argued in the presence of the privy council.
 Mr. Brougham  presented a petition from the Speaker, and several of the members of the House of Keys, in the Isle of Man, which, he observed, was deserving of the serious attention of the House, both from the nature of the subject, and the respectability of the individuals by whom it was signed. The Speaker was colonel Wilkes, a gentleman well known for his conduct in India, and the able works he had published respecting that quarter of the world; the second name was that of the hon. member for Cumberland; the third was a general officer; and so on. By the constitution of the island the members of the House of Keys were virtually the representatives of the people of the island, as much as the hon. gentlemen who surrounded him were the representatives of the people of this country. These were the parties, who, in the petition which he held in his hand, preferred their complaints to the House. They complained, first, of several institutions which had been improperly introduced into the island; and secondly, of the conduct of the governor under those institutions. Their first complaint was, that the members of the House of Keys were not allowed to form a part of the criminal court of Tynwald; a privilege to which they contended that they were fully entitled; and from the opportunities which he had had of investigating the subject, it appeared to him that their claim was well founded. Since the petition had been signed, however, an occurrence had taken place, which would, perhaps, give an opportunity of settling the question. Three persons had been tried in the island for felony; one of whom had been sentenced to death, and the two others to transportation. From these sentences, in consequence of what they conceived to be the defective consttution of the court, the prisoners had appealed to the king in council. But, even if it should be decided against them, high as that authority was, it would not preclude the House of Keys from still asserting what they conceived their right. The other ground of complaint urged by the petitioners was the general conduct of the governor of the island. That governor was the duke of Athol; and certainly, in consequence of a variety, of considerations, his grace
 1459 l l 1460 l
 Mr. Brougham  in reply, contended, that the court of Keys had a right to sit on criminal cases without being summoned. He had heard that night, for the first time, of Mr. Vaughan's conduct, and could therefore say nothing to it. He felt it, however, to be his duty to bear testimony to the character of Mr. Robert Cunningham, than whom a more honourable young man was not to be found in the Isle of Man. It was true that this young man had, in a moment of intoxication, committed an act of imprudence; but it was no less true that, since that period, he had been elected one of the Keys, with the approbation of the duke of Athol. He was received into the houses of the most respectable persons in the island, and was universally treated in such a manner as showed that his offence was forgotten, and that his reputation was unimpaired. The only method of allaying the dissentions which existed in the Isle of Man would be by altering the form of the government, and by taking out of the hands of one individual the power which he held, and which his interests must occasionally prevent him from exercising for the purpose of its institution.
 Mr. Goulburn  contended, that the learned member had given the House an incorrect view of this part of the act, by reading only one half of the clause. He ought to have read the other half, by which it was enacted, that, in case the judge did not certify on the record, that the magistrate had probable cause, the plaintiff obtained not only the damages awarded him by the jury, but also treble costs.
 Mr. Hume  suggested the propriety of an inquiry being instituted into the fact, whether the interests of the duke of Athol were not, in some instances, incompatible with his duty as a governor. From the sentiments expressed by the right hon. gentleman, he was sure he would not advocate the continuance of such a state of things, if it were once found that this was actually the case.
 Mr. Denman  proposed the following clause as a rider to the bill:—That all offences under the Insurrection act should be tried by a jury." Mr Goulburn opposed, and Mr. S. Rice supported it. It was negatived without a division; as was also another clause by way of rider, proposed by Mr. S. Rice, giving to the prisoners the liberty of postponing their trials.
 Mr. Denman  called the attention of the house to the clause whereby any subject of his majesty, not being a traveller or a resident, found in a licensed public-house between the hours of 9 o'clock in the evening and 6 in the morning, was rendered liable to transportation for seven years. The sting of this clause was, that the words "without lawful excuse" which were inserted in other parts of the bill,
 1468
 Mr. Denman  referred to the 25th clause of the act, whereby it was enacted, that in case any person brought an action against a magistrate or constable for the malicious abuse of the powers of this act, and a jury awarded him damages proportioned to their sense of the injury inflicted, it should be lawful, on the Judge certifying on the record, that the party against whom the action was brought had probable cause for what he had done, to reduce the damages to  6d
 Mr. Peel  admitted the perfect respectability of Mr. Cunningham, and that the offence which had been alleged against him was an exception to his general conduct.
 Sir F. Blake  said, he did not put so much trust in stone walls for the pacification of Ireland as the gallant general. He thought there was a much better remedy. He would advise—and he put the matter seriously to the liberal part of his majesty's ministers—that they should make the relief of the people of Ireland the sine qua non of their keeping office. If they did this, Ireland would soon be relieved, and her grievances redressed. He would advise them to press the question of Catholic emancipation session after session, and parliament after parliament, until they carried it by a triumphant majority; and as he could judge from the general tenour of his majesty's conduct, that he did not
 1467
 Mr. Scarlett  felt great obligations to the right hon. gentleman for having introduced this very useful bill. But, whatever complaint might have been made with respect to the mode of striking special juries, he would say, that a man of greater integrity or ability than the master of the Crown office did not exist.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  thought that, to use the peculiar phrase of a lamented marquis, the House were "turning their backs upon themselves," when they repealed the Superannuation act. As to any saving to secure the payment of the national debt, it was just as rational to attempt to bottle off the Atlantic Ocean. Then, as to the payment of public officers, what scale ought they to have? If upon comparative merits, and for real services, his right hon. friend, the secretary for foreign affairs ought to be paid double any of the rest.
 Mr. S. Worthy  justified the repeal of the Superannuation act, and hoped that his majesty would also withdraw the order in council. The two measures were strictly opposed to the principale of justice, and. never would have passed but for the general alarm that prevailed in consequence of the necessities of the times.
 Mr. F. Buxton  thought the restoration of the deductions a measure which justice commanded. He considered the high officers of state as greatly underpaid: and
 1474
 Mr. Calcraft  could not look at the salaries of ministers as a question of money. Men of no fortune, of middling fortune, and of large fortunes, were all equally anxious to fill these offices. Why, then, talk of stimulating their exertions by further pecuniary remuneration? The Crown had given up its thousands, and marquis Camden had done one of the most liberal acts ever recorded, by sacrificing 8,000 l.
 Mr. Ellice  could not conceive on what rational ground any opposition could be made to the resumption of that which had been so liberally conceded in a moment of great public difficulty. He could not conceive what great additional burthen could be inflicted on the people by taking off the heavy and exclusive taxation on great public officers, and thereby enabling persons of talents and endowments to fill those high official situations, the adequate occupation of which was of so much importance to the country. For one, whenever the subject came under the consideration of the House, although by no means disposed to augment the burthens of the people, he should certainly feel it his duty to support it.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that, whenever the subject came before the House, he should express his decided conviction of the propriety of roinstating the great public officers in their whole salaries.
 Mr. W. Smith  expressed himself in favour of the opinion laid down by the horn member for Wareham, that great offices of state were not sought after merely on account of emolument, but for a thousand reasons. He did most firmly believe, that
 1475
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that great advantages might be derived from an early recognition of South American independence, which perhaps might not be realized if the boon were tardily granted. So long as Spain refused to recognize the independence of those extensive provinces, so long was it important that they should be speedily apprized of those who did recognize their independence. If Spain, thought fit to recognize the South American states, there would be no favour in England pursuing the same course: but, if Great Britain led the way, such a friendly act might produce the most beneficial effects upon our commerce.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he rose to present a petition from the President, Vice-President, and members of the Chamber of Commerce of Manchester, praying that House immediately to acknowledge the Independence of the states of South America. Although he had taken up so much of the time of the House, on a former evening, when he presented a similar petition, yet he felt it necessary to make a few observations on the present occasion. The Chamber of Commerce and Manufactures of the town of Manchester was, as its name imported, strictly a commercial association; and was, by one of its by-laws, precluded from political discussion. The petition to which that intelligent body had agreed, was voted at a very numerous and respectable meeting. It would have been most numerously signed, if the petitioners had not expected a speedy termination of the ses-
 1476 1477 1478
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he had a petition to present on a subject of considerable importance. It was from the whole of the debtors confined in the gaol for the county of Surrey; complaining of the regulations to which, under the orders of the magistrates of that county, the gaol was subjected. In the first place, the petitioners complained, that the act of the 4th of his present majesty, commonly called the Gaol act, laid down certain rules for the regulation of gaols, which were very undefined in their character. He was of opinion that the House ought to interfere, and to correct the indiscretions which, under this act, the unpaid magistracy of the country were prone to commit. It appeared that by the 4th and 12th sections of the act, the justices of peace assembled at the quarter sessions, were empowered to make such rules with respect to gaols as to them might seem expedient. It was impossible to know how far such a power might be carried. If the justices of peace, assembled at the quarter sessions, chose to direct that every prisoner should have only a single ounce of bread, and a single glass of water per day, there was nothing in the act of parliament to prevent them from issuing such an order. Although many of the Surrey magistrates were men of the highest respectability, and among them his hon. friend (Mr. Denison), and the noble lord opposite (Eastnor), who was recently the Chairman of the quarter sessions; yet, after the treatment which, by their directions, had lately been experienced by a gentleman, whose case had made a good deal of noise—he meant captain O'Callaghan—it was impossible not to look at their proceedings with considerable suspicion and jealousy. The petitioners complained that, in consequence of the regulations of the magistrates, only one hour in the day was allowed for the debtors to provide themselves with food, bedding, clothes, and other necessaries. Now, as many of the friends of the petitioners lived at a distance from the gaol, and were engaged in business of various kinds, it must frequently happen, that the hour appointed for the purpose which he had just mentioned, which hour was from eleven to twelve o'clock, was inconvenient and in-
 1494 1495
 Mr. Denison  said, that, in many points, he perfectly agreed with his hon. friend. He condemned the Gaol act: he hoped it would be repealed, and that the old law on the subject would be renewed. But, with many thanks to his hon. friend for the
 1496 1497
 Mr. Maberly  observed, that as the magistrates of Surrey had delegated their authority to the visiting magistrates, he hoped the error, if any, would be imputed to the latter alone. He should feel it his bounden duty, however, to bring the subject before the magistrates generally. They knew nothing of what had occurred. At least, he might say, as one of them, that he knew nothing about it.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that with regard to the existing law on the subject of
 1498 l.
 Sir F. Burdett  was sure, that his hon. colleague had not meant to cast any imputation upon the conduct of the noble chairman of the quarter sessions. He was likewise sure, that the humanity and liberality which always distinguished the conduct of his hon. friend, the member for Surrey, would lead him to mitigate the hardships of this prison law by every means in his power. He could not, however, help saying, that the case which was then before the House, showed that the alteration which had recently been made in the law of the country was a very grievous alteration; and he did not know how it was possible for any man with the ideas of a gentleman, to avoid experiencing the strongest disgust, on viewing the risk which he now ran of being subjected to the utmost degradation and insult for an offence which any of them might be urged to commit under the impulse of exasperated feelings. For his own part, he would declare, upon his honour, that he would rather be sentenced to be hanged at once, than to undergo the insults which captain O'Callaghan had suffered in the gaol to which he had been committed. He would ask whether any greater mental torture, any more flagrant mental degradation, could be inflicted upon any man who moved in the sphere of a gentleman, than to be placed behind iron railings, and to be compelled to communicate with his friends, not only upon the same terms, but also in the very company of a set of felons? He allowed that the present was an inconvenient time for entering into a discussion on the state of the prison laws; but, nevertheless, he could not refrain from expressing a hope, that the House would soon see the propriety of recurring to the old English law regarding gaols—of taking the management of them from the magistrates—of restricting the magistrates to their ancient jurisdiction—
 1500
 Mr. Hobhouse,  in reply, observed, that the law itself was so absurd and wicked, and gave so great a latitude to the magistrates by whom it was administered, that no man could be safe while it remained in the Statute-book. He was glad to find that his hon. friend, the member for Surrey, owned that three of the complaints made by the petitioners were well-founded. He had no doubt that in consequence of what had passed that evening, all those hardships would be remedied. Justice required it. He repeated that it would be much better to abandon the new-fangled system of gaol management, and to go back to the old practice, even with all the vices which belonged to it. As to the case of Mr. O'Callaghan, he would make only one remark. There was not a member in that House who did not recollect a C3se some years ago perfectly similar. He was far from meaning to say any thing personally unpleasant to the right hon. gentleman opposite. On the contrary, had he been in the situation of that right hon. gentleman's brother, on the occasion to which he alluded, he would have done just what he did. The act, however, was an assault similar to that which had been committed by Mr. O'Callaghan. But, what was the punishment? A month's imprisonment in the King's-bench. How different from the punishment of Mr. O'Callaghan! He had seen the prison, and the particular place in which the gentleman he alluded to was confined. He had his friends to dine with him every day, had any kind of food, had every indulgence he wished for, and walked about at his ease. But, Mr. O'Callaghan was shut up in a solitary cell twelve hours out of the twenty-four, compelled to live on bread and water, and, exposed to the most painful mental degradation. He knew the gentleman, and a more respectable man he never saw. The sentence, hard in itself, was rendered infinitely more so by the mode in which the gaoler thought he was called upon to carry it into execution. He had a right to say that the sentence was hard. Chief Justice Best had, the other day, declared, with reference to a respectable individual who had given another two slaps in the face, that the jury could not give more than a farthing damages. He would ask the
 1501
 Mr. Maberly  trusted, that as there was to be a meeting of the Surrey magistrates to-morrow, they would resolve to appeal to the right hon. secretary to shorten the duration of captain O' Callaghan's imprisonment, in consequence of the aggravation it had received from the very hard discipline which they had imposed upon the prison. For the honour of Surrey, he hoped that nobody would in future suffer in any of the county gaols a greater punishment than that to which the bench intended to consign him.
 Mr. Abercromby  stated, that he had to present a petition from the individual whose name had been so often alluded to in the course of the late discussion; he meant Mr. O'Callaghan. The case of that gentleman had excited great public attention, and the only reason which he could find for its having done so was this—that when the public looked to the offence which Mr. O'Callaghan had committed, to the provocation which he had received, to the recommendation which the jury had given him for mercy, and to the treatment to which he had subsequently been subjected in consequence of his sentence, they saw that there was such a difference between the offence and the punishment, as compelled them to withhold their sympathy from the punishment, and to give it to the person on whom the punishment was inflicted. The petition was, in his opinion, well deserving the attention of the House; and he thought that the right hon. secretary, if he took it under his consideration, would see, that the petitioner had suffered a degree of punishment for the space of a week, which neither the noble chairman who passed the sentence, nor the bench who concurred in it, intended him to suffer. The hon. member then went into the particulars of Mr. O'Callaghan's case, reading them from the petition. After he had
 1502
 Mr. Peel  said, the hon. gentleman ought to bear in mind, that, in the instance to which he had adverted, the sentence, besides a month's imprisonment, was a fine of 500 l., l.
 Sir R. Wilson  observed, that they were informed by the right hon. secretary, that he had asked lord Eastnor whether the court had taken into consideration the recommendation of the jury: but, there was another question which the right hon.
 1499
 Lord Eastnor  expressed his regret that he was not in the House when this petition was presented, but as he understood that a petition was to be presented from Mr. O' Callaghan, he would reserve any observations he had to make until that petition came before the House.
 Lord Eastnor  assured the House, that he never undertook a more painful duty in his life, than that of presiding at the late quarter sessions for the county of Surrey. He undertook it not from any wish of his own, but at the request of his hon. friend the member for the county, in order to give the magistrates time to select a proper successor to their late worthy chairman, Mr. Harrison. He could assure them that he had given his best attention to this case, and that the rest of the bench had done so too. They did not wish to do any thing harsh, but they thought that they were bound by their sentence to mark their opinion of the assault which had been committed. He did feel that without a strong case, it was improper to allude in that House to what occurred before the judicial tribunals of the country; but, after what had fallen on the present occasion from hon. members, he felt himself bound to state, that the provocation which Mr. O' Callaghan received did not appear to be such as warranted, the assault he had made on the prosecutor.
 1503
 Lord Eastnor  said, he was anxious to make one observation which had before escaped him. He was not, when the sentence was passed on this gentleman, aware of the precise nature of the prison regulations; and when he was told of the privations to which Mr. O' Callaghan had been subjected, he doubted the statement, and said, that there must be some mistake. He, however, learnt, that the statement was true. He was afterwards informed, that those restrictions were removed, and every fair and reasonable indulgencegiven, and he was glad of it. 1504 l. 1505
