66 defended the country banks from the imputations to which the had recently been so generally subjected. No one, he said, could judge fairly of their merits, except those who were interested in the subject. The failures that had taken place among them were principally owing to a want of knowledge on the part of those who had the management of the concern: the bankers who had a! common share of prudence, had experienced little difficulty in weathering the storm. He did not know that the existence of one pound notes was so great an evil as seemed to be imagined. On the contrary, he was: satisfied that their circulation had been! beneficial to the public. Whatever might be said of country banks, a great part of j the prosperity of the country was mainly attributable to the facilities and the indulgences which they had afforded. He was quite sure, that if the existing sys I tem were suddenly altered, or without great deliberation, an effect would be produced on the country which was not at all anticipated. In every part of England, and in the agricultural counties particularly, the country banks had, undoubtedly, lent a large part of their capital on mortgage. But, it by no means followed, that they had not obtained security. If, however, they were suddenly driven to call in all these loans, an alarm would be occasioned, the ultimate result of which no one could foresee. The debts due to them might be good debts; but, when the House saw, only six weeks ago, that any man who could not suddenly turn his parchments into gold was a ruined man, they might have some notion of the evil which a precipitate measure might generate. If left alone, eventually they might bring their affairs round; but if suddenly compelled to meet a parliamentary measure, such as that alluded to by the right hon. gentleman, they might be driven to dispose of their property to such disadvantage, as not to be able to pay ten shillings in the pound. He had thought
66Mr. Cripps
67 said, he could not express an opinion upon the proposed measures without offering his meed of concurrence in all that had been said of the conduct of the Bank of England, during the late shock to which the public credit had been exposed. He was ready to admit, that in what had been said of that body, justice only had been done them; and even if the right hon. gentleman had gone further, he would have been warranted by the course which the Bank had pursued, in circumstances more trying and extraordinary than ever a commercial body was placed in before. To their energy and determination, although in opposition to their usual principles, was the salvation of the country to be attributed. But, whilst he gave them praise where they deserved it, he was bound to say, that their good intentions might have been more beneficially developed, if they had not crippled themselves by the dead weight on mortgages. This, however, was an abstract operation, and he should not now go into it. All he should say was, that he did not think the difficulties which the Bank had contributed so largely to alleviate were attributable exclusively to the misfortunes of the commercial world, or to the failure of the country banks; for sure he was, that they had been much aggravated by the measures of the right hon. gentleman and his colleagues in deluging the country with so large an issue of their promissory notes. The weight of thirty millions of Exchequer bills was calculated to produce a great languor in the money transactions of the country; and he was sure that, if the Bank of England had not gone into the Exchequer market, and taken up those bills, the panic would have been ten times more dreadful. Indeed, he doubted whether, if this had not taken place, the dividends due in October or January would have been paid. It would be a neglect of duty not to remind the country that it. was by the promptitude with which the Bank had come forward that the country was saved from
67Mr.Maberly
7574***7372717069 said, that although he had not expected that any difference of opinion would have been excited by the speech of his right hon. friend, still, as some strange misconception had arisen upon several of the topics contained in it, he was anxious to state to the House the manner in which he had himself understood them. The House had been addressed by two hon. members from different sides of the House, who had both evidently misconceived the meaning of his right hon. friend. The misconception of one of the hon. gentlemen was perhaps natural, and at any rate might be accounted for; but, how the misconception of the other had arisen, it was impossible for him to imagine. The hon. gentleman opposite seemed to apprehend that his right hon. friend had a plan for erecting joint-stock banking companies or corporations, which would swallow up all the existing establishments. Now, the plan of his right hon. friend went no further than to take off, with the consent of the Bank of England, a few years sooner than it would otherwise expire, a prohibition, of which the effect, by the concurrent opinion of all who had spoken upon the subject, was to make weakness, instead of strength, an inherent quality in the system of country banking. It required not the agency of his right hon. friend, that the evil which the hon. gentleman apprehended should take place in the year 1833; that there should then be no longer any privilege in the Bank of England to prevent more than six persons from becoming partners in the same banking concern; that that privilege should then cease with the existence of the Bank charter; and that such corporations and joint-stock companies as the hon. gentleman appeared so much to dread, should then rise up in all parts of the country. But, under what circumstances, he would ask the hon. gentleman, would that evil occur, supposing the present law to remain unaltered? On the one hand, the privilege of the Bank of England, which prevented the spreading of a wider basis for the transactions of country banks, would continue to exist till the year 1833; and, on the other, there was by law in the country banks an unlimited power to issue small notes up to precisely the same period. Now, if the undoing of the privilege of the Bank of England was so fraught with mischief as the hon. gentleman seemed to
7574***7372717069Mr. Secretary Canning
76 contended, that the distress under which the commercial world was now labouring had not been entirely occasioned by excessive speculation and over-trading. The government and the Bank, by contriving to beat down the rate of interest, had done far more mischief than the present system of country banks. "Why had nothing been said against the London banks? It was their stopping which had stopped the country banks, and the evil ought to be attributed to the right cause. He defended the country banks. From the great competition among them, it was mere matter of option whether a man took their notes or not. If he did not like them, he might take them to their banking-house and compel them to pay him in specie. What objection was there to this part of the system? Of the whole number of country banks, not one-tenth had stopped; and of those which had been compelled to suspend payment, many had paid, or would be enabled to pay all demands upon them. He would be the last man to allude unnecessarily to distresses which all must deplore; but when so much had been said respecting the failures of the banks, he might be permitted to remind the House that there had been other failures with which the country banks had no connexion, and which had been the occasion of infinitely greater distress, than all the country banks put together. The system which
76Mr. Calcraft
 said, that the hon. gentleman was mistaken if he imagined that he had recommended an issue of one pound notes as a remedy for the present distress. It would have been preposterous for him to do so; because he had already stated his belief, that the issue of one pound country bank notes had contributed to the existing evils; and this observation applied with equal force to the Bank of England.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he felt it due to the Bank of England to say, that when the distress was at its height, the directors had come forward in the most liberal manner, and thrown themselves into the breach, to avert, as far as they could, the danger which threatened the country.Mr. Grenfell
8382ll8180797877 said, that the chancellor of the Exchequer, in omitting to state at what time he intended to carry his measure into effect, had prevented the House from judging of its expediency. It would make a great difference whether it was to take effect within two years or within six months from this time. It could not be denied that the present state of the country was ominous. He had no hesitation in attributing that distress to the extent to which the circulation of paper money had been pushed about eighteen months ago, and for which the country banks, and, he was sorry to say, the Bank of England were answerable. He did not mean now to discuss at any length that responsibility; but as this was, in his opinion, the only part of the conduct of the Bank that was liable to animadversion, he thought it would be neither just nor prudent to withhold this observation. The Bank of England, by the facilities which they afforded, had been the authors of that dangerous redundancy of money, that
8382ll8180797877Mr. Baring
282726252423 (member for Bossiney) rose, for the purpose of moving an Address to his Majesty, in answer to the Speech which had just been read. In doing so, he was, he said, aware of the difficulty of the task which he had undertaken, from the circumstance of his being a young member, and this being the first time he had had the honour to address that assembly. It had been the duty of his predecessors, in the task which was now assigned him, to congratulate the country upon its flourishing condition. In the Speech which had been just read, he also found motive for congratulation; although the year which had passed over them had not been marked by some so pre-eminent advantages as former years had been. In adverting to the royal Speech, the first subject that arrested his attention was the formidable shock which the commercial credit had recently sustained. This was the topic that most strongly challenged the attention of the House; and they should come to the consideration of it boldly and manfully, with a view of removing it, or at least, checking its increase. And here due credit must be given to ministers for having introduced this important subject to the notice of parliament. They stated it with candour, and admitted it without
282726252423Mr. John Stuart Wortley
343332313029 said, that, situated as England was, owing her great general prosperity to commerce and manufactures, and dependent, especially in time of peace, upon those sources for the high station which she maintained among the nations of the world, it would ill become the government of the country, if, when any danger threatened those manufactures, or temporary evil led to a convulsion in them, it failed to bring the subject in the fullest as well as in the most speedy way, before the consideration of parliament. The subject was one as to the importance of which there could be no second opinion. It was a subject which parliament would investigate, not merely as regarded circumstances of present or local distress, but taking it in a large and comprehensive point of view; considering the several effects likely, in various quarters, to result from it; and particularly the consequences which it might produce upon that general mercantile credit and confidence which were so essential to the success of all commercial speculation. In speaking of the
343332313029Mr. Green
45lll4443l.l.42l.l.l.:l.,41 said, that the distress of the country, great as it was at present, was only in its commencement, unless vigorous measures were applied to its relief. It would be recollected that during the last session he had implored the House and the ministry to step forth and secure the country from the open and barefaced spoliation which it was suffering by the machinations of joint-stock companies, from one end to the other. He clearly predicted what had proved to be the actual consequences of those schemes. And if he had thus seen beforehand the multitude of evils which had since been realized, he thought he had given the House sufficient warrant for the correctness of his opinions to entitle him to some portion of their attention. He considered the present embarrassments as the unavoidable consequences of that policy which had directed the public counsels, and which was now often years' duration. Should the government persevere in it, the existing calamities would be more than a gradual approach to the crisis. The House was bound to step in, and rescue the manufacturing and landed interests from that ruin which awaited them. He spoke upon the deepest reflection and consideration; and as far as facts were concerned, he was guided by statements which had been laid upon their table. If those statements were valid, that which he had to offer must make a serious impression on the House. The present difficulties might pass away; but greater remained behind, unless an end were brought to that speculative and gambling system of commerce which had produced it. Before he went into the subject, he would read to the House a passage out of an excellent pamphlet written fifteen years ago by the present right hon. president
45lll4443l.l.42l.l.l.:l.,41Mr. Robertson
55llll5453525150lll49484746 confessed that he did not clearly comprehend the drift of the arguments of the hon. member for Grampound; and felt utterly at a loss how to reply to them. The speech of his hon. friend appeared to contain some propositions of rather a startling nature; for if he understood him rightly, the effect of his argument tended directly not only to that consummation, which his hon. friend certainly desired, the extinction of our foreign commerce; but also to the extinction of all the advantages of our home industry. So, at least, did it appear to him. His argument was, that the greater part of the distresses of the country was to be attributed to excessive exports; and then again his greatest dread seemed to be from the operation of the principles of free trade, by excessive importations. How to reconcile such seeming contardictions, he must leave to the ingenious and speculative mind of his hon. friend. As to the crimes alleged against the government, at first he felt perfectly astounded—he could not conceive what he himself, or his right hon. friends had been about, to deserve the denunciation—he quite trembled at the terrible consequences which, were to follow. But lo, and behold! some distinguished members of his majesty's government had lent their names to a speculation, the most innocent that had ever
55llll5453525150lll49484746The Chancellor of the Exchequer
90 said, he had a word to offer upon the sufferings of his constituents, than whom there were not a
90Mr. Alderman Wood
56 rose, he said, rather to advert to one serious omission in the Speech from the throne, than to follow the right hon. gentleman through the various topics on which he had addressed the House. But, before he did this, he must offer one or two observations on what had fallen from him respecting the currency, and the measures proposed to place it on a more satisfactory footing. He thought the greatest caution should be observed in extending the system of banking, without providing efficient checks against the abuses to which recent events had proved it so liable. The Scotch chartered banks were, in some respects, to be regarded with as much jealousy as the country banks in England. They had not been behind hand in giving encouragement to over trading and speculation, and their issues of paper had at least been on an equal scale, with those during the last two years in this country. Their present situation was probably as much to be ascribed to good fortune, as good management, and they might not have been found better prepared than their neighbours, if the recent panic had travelled northwards, and exposed them to the same severe trial. In future legislation on this subject, it would be well to advert to the expediency of encouraging the collection of large masses of capital in the hands of persons issuing local notes, for which interest was allowed to depositors. The banker must look in this case for a profit beyond the interest, and was tempted in prosperous times either to lock up his funds, or to embark them in hazardous speculations with that object. On any
56Mr. Ellice
403938373635 said, it was a subject of great regret, that ministers had departed from the old and established practice of delivering a copy of the king's Speech, for the information of members, a few days before they were called on to discuss it and to vote upon its contents. This want of courtesy on their part was attended with considerable inconvenience. Although there were not many definite propositions laid down in the Speech just delivered from the Throne, there were a variety of important matters touched upon in it, and the House were called upon to discuss and vote upon them, without half an hour's previous notice, or any means of making up their minds upon the subject. Members were thus called upon to accede to the address, which was foisted upon them by a side wind, and no option was afforded them but of either moving an adjournment, or of blindly voting for that into which they had no opportunity of inquiring. Although it was not his intention to move an adjournment, or even to oppose the present address, he thought it necessary to protest against its being inferred that he therefore acceded to its contents; on the contrary, he reserved to himself the future occasions that might arise for discussing the topics which it embraced, as fully as if he had not voted for it that evening. He could not help feeling, that the address would go to the public, as if there were a general concurrence of the House in the statements which it contained; whereas no such inference ought to be drawn from the circumstance
403938373635Mr. Brougham
s.l87 said, he did not rise to object to any of the plans indicated by the chancellor of the Exchequer; but, he could not let the debate close, without remarking, that the right hon. gentleman, and all those who had followed him, utterly blinked the main question, which was intirely a question of prices. Mr. Gurney said, he had always disliked the bankers' circulation, and particularly detested their one pound notes. He had always been convinced, that it was their circulation, that was, their bidding against each other in credits, which had reduced the banking business to the minimum of
s.l87Mr. Hudson Gurney
68 as one of the directors of that establishment, rose to defend the conduct which the Bank had pursued during the late crisis, and to deprecate the tone of triumph in which the right hon. gentleman had described the result of his late negotiations with that body. The advances which tile Bank had made upon stock, and also those which it had made upon mort-gages, had been made with a view of alleviating the embarrassments of the commercial and the agricultural interests, and not with any view of beating down the rate of interest of money. The Bank had acted with the utmost prudence and consideration in the whole of the late tremendous convulsion; and he thought that the House would agree with him, that the I public had never been brought into any scrape by its proceedings, or when it had got into a scrape by other means, had ever been unassisted by the Bank with the means of getting out of it. He had been connected with the Bank for the last forty years—a period as eventful as any in the annals of the world, and he would solemnly say, with all that experience before him, that he never saw the directors influenced by unworthy motives. In all questions that came before them, they considered the interest of the country as that which was paramount to all others, being well aware, that when that interest was secured,
68Mr. Pearse,
6564 was of opinion, that unless the chancellor of the Exchequer entered into a much more full explanation of his imperfect statement than he had given, the effect would be, to increase that panic and alarm, of the existence of which he must be fully aware. He entirely concurred with the right hon. gentleman, in most of his observations respecting the issue of small notes by private banks, and of the injury which had accrued there from in some instances; but, he must remind the right hon. gentleman, that the undefined manner in which he had alluded to the intention of allowing joint-stock company banks, with a greater number of partners, and with, of course, a very large capital, might have an effect injurious to many banks within sixty-five miles of the metropolis, unless he explained immediately the time when this proposition was to be carried into effect. Without such explanation his proposition might create an alarm, and produce a recurrence of the panic which they were all so anxious to prevent. He did hope, therefore, that before the close of this debate the right hon. gentleman would give some explanation on this point. He hoped that in any plan which might be adopted, no privileges would be given that would go to destroy the ancient establish-
6564Mr. John Smith
63626160lllll5958 said, that the right hon., the chancellor of the Exchequer had carried them back to former years in the course of his speech, but had forgotten to point out what appeared to be the principal cause of all the distress about which he had occasion to speak. Without intending to disapprove of the speech of the right hon. gentleman, he must enter his protest against the praises which he had heaped upon the Bank of England. It appeared to him just as if an incendiary were to be praised, because, after he had kindled the flame, he endeavoured to put it out. If the Bank of England had known the true principles of banking, or if it had taken example by the events of 1793, it would never have allowed the course of exchange to remain for seven whole months against this country. He however hailed the proposition of the government as the commencement of better times, though he could not but regret that no bank was to be permitted within sixty-five miles of the metropolis; for if they were wanted any where, it was in London itself, in order that there might be something like competition to keep the Bank of England at bay. The right hon. gentleman had taken great credit to himself for the prescience with which he had pointed out the course of the revenue; but, in so doing, he had taken care not to go back to that period at which the government had been so lavish of their promises as to the reduction of taxation. Did the right hon. gentleman's speech, he would ask, hold out the smallest hopes of reduction in the military establishment of the country, which was tearing it to pieces? In the year 1793, when the country was at war, four millions and a half had been found sufficient to pay the military establishments at that time. And, what was the amount required at present? Something between nine and ten millions; and, at the very time that they were receiving assurances from his majesty of there being every prospect of a continuance of peace. In 1793, the whole taxation of the country did not exceed eighteen millions, while its parochial assessments were not more than two millions. What was the case at present? The taxation of the country amounted to the incredible sum of fifty-five millions, and the poor rates and parochial assessments to six or seven millions annually. In such a state of things it was mere fallacy to talk of relieving the distresses of the
63626160lllll5958Mr. Hume
8988So John and I are more than quit."To publish it to all the nation,But John unluckily thought fit"To John I ow'd great obligation, said, he did not mean to question the conduct of the Bank of England, nor the justice of the high eulogium passed upon it. The directors had a duty to perform towards the proprietors; but as far as the public were concerned, he did not conceive that they, more than any private bankers, were bound to consult the public interest. The interests of the proprietors alone they were bound to promote, when they did not interfere with the rights of others. The hon. member, as the organ of that powerful establishment, in giving the reason why it wished for a change in its charter, had thought fit to eulogise it, and said that every thing was right and proper. He had lauded their judgment, liberality, and promptitude. This reminded him of the epigram of Prior—
8988So John and I are more than quit."To publish it to all the nation,But John unluckily thought fit"To John I ow'd great obligation,Mr. Denman
 said, he was a friend to the general principle of free trade, but that he thought the silk-trade, under present circumstances, ought to be made an exception; or at least that the principle should not be extended to that branch of our trade, while the monopoly of the corn trade was allowed to exist. He would! not press the subject at that moment;! but, at some future time he should feel it his duty to bring it under the consideration of the House, for he was quite convinced that unless some alteration was made in the corn laws, it was impossible that the silk-trade could go on under the existing regulations.Mr. T. Wilson
8584 said, that although he had listened to the observations of the hon. member for Taunton with all the attention so justly due to his profound commercial knowledge, and extensive experience, yet, as so many opportunities would occur for a better examination of the various topics touched upon in the course of his address on this occasion, he would not go further than to reiterate the determination expressed by his right hon. friend, of hot going into any details, until the House should be more fully in possession of the nature of the measures which it had been resolved at the present crisis to adopt. This much he might, however, say, that his right hon. friend would, at the earliest possible moment, submit his proposition for their consideration. The House would, he trusted, when any delay was complained of, recollect that it was only on the coming morning, when any plan of the House; adopted by the Bank directors, at the suggestion of his majesty's ministers, could be by them submitted to the approbation of the proprietors, whose trustees they were, and without whose sanction no measures could be resolved upon between government
8584Mr. Huskisson
86 suggested, that in order to carry into effect the intentions of government, a short bill should be passed to prevent new issues, as the one pound notes were not to be withdrawn till they were worn out. Many insinuations, he said, had been thrown out against the country bankers, which were as unfounded as they were unnecessary. That the country bankers had been the means of producing the commercial distress, he entirely denied. They had no power of over-issue; they were unable to raise a fictitious credit: they could not keep in circulation a single note longer than it was absolutely necessary. The Bank of England, when not required to pay in gold, could issue as many notes as they pleased; but the country bankers, who had always been obliged to pay in gold or Bank of England notes, were necessarily restrained from any over issue. The right hon. gentleman had made a calculation, as to the number of country notes in circulation. The best authority on that point was the Stamp office. He had estimated them at different periods at
86Sir M. W. Ridley
91 observed, that he had for a considerable period discharged the duties of the office to which he had now been re-appointed, he trusted, with zeal and diligence. Circumstances had occurred since the last session which made him desirous of occupying the attention of the House for a few minutes, in order that he might exculpate himself from the gross imputations which had been cast upon him in the newspapers. Under those aspersions on his character he had suffered greatly. It would be impossible to describe how severely his feelings had been wounded. It had been said, that no person suffered unjustly, at least without some ground; but he was an example to the contrary. In the matter he referred to (the Arigna Mine concern) he had the satisfaction to say, that 150 gentlemen had met at the city of London Tavern, who had completely absolved him and another member of the House from any improper conduct in regard to the company, and had requested him to continue a director. The hon. member added, that he would not descend to minute details in order to rebut the allegations in the newspapers; a proceeding at law would be instituted against one libel. He had received a letter which would abundantly show the conviction entertained of his entire innocence in the affair referred to, and which he proposed to read to the House. The hon. member, however, on searching, found that he had omitted to
91Mr. Brogden
92 took occasion to regret, that the question of the Corn-laws was not to be brought forward by ministers in the present session. He had much confidence in the sincerity and good intentions of government; but, looking at that question as the one which must form the groundwork of every thing like a system of free trade, he could not help fearing that some unfortunate influence was operating to postpone its discussion. So satisfied was he, that without a proper settlement of the corn question, all attempts to keep up a scheme of free trade must be ineffectual, as ministers did not mean to bring it forward, he should feel it his duty to bring it on himself. He regretted thus to undertake a task which he had hoped to see performed by abler hands; particularly as government stood, in a great degree, pledged to the discussion of the subject. He was glad to hear the gentlemen opposite declare, that the present distresses (which he trusted would be transitory) would make no difference in the views which they had acted upon during the last session. The stoppage in the silk trade arose, in a great degree, from the apprehension of the masters as to the effects of the new measures; which apprehensions would be entirely removed when those measures came into full operation. The change which was pro-
92Mr. Whitmore
 said, that the manufacturers were grossly mistaken, if they attributed any part of their distress to the operation of the Corn laws. If rightly understood, they would be found to be highly beneficial to the commercial interests of the country.Mr. Carwen
 said, he had not replied to the hon. member for Aberdeen's observations on the subject of India on the preceding evening, because he thought the whole matter an episode to the general discussion, and because he knew the hon. gentleman too well to have any apprehension that he would be long without speaking upon the subject a second time. The right lion, gentleman then proceeded to defend both the principle and the conduct of the Burmese war; and declared, that the declaration of lord Amherst was fully borne out by all facts. Could any one deny, not merely that actual aggression had been committed against us by the Burmese, but that a disposition to the commission of such aggression had for a long time been manifested? As for the conduct of our troops, and the success of our arms, who could impeach either? If an enemy constantly flying before us, did not bear testimony to the valour of our troops, he did not know what the hon. gentleman would desire. As for any unfriendly disposition among the native powers of India towards us, he denied its existence. It was true that our army, or a portion of it, had suffered severely from sickness. This did not arise, however, from any peculiarity in the climate, but from those causes which must always, in a greater or less degree, attend upon campaigns in India. By the last accounts, however, the sickness was diminishing; and by the next, he had hopes that it would be found lessened in a still greater degree. He had not the slightest doubt that the valour of our soldiers, and the ability of their leaders, would bring the contest to an honourable and fortunate conclusion. He should hear of such a termination with as much pleasure as any man. But though it was our policy to avoid war as long as it could safely be avoided, it was impossible for us to overlook insults, or to shrink from entering into a contest, where it was obstinately presented to us.Mr. Wynn
9594 denied that his hon. friend had insinuated any thing against our troops in India, he had only lamented, that those troops were put in a situation where, instead of coming in contact with the enemy, they encountered contagion. Many individuals acquainted with India, and sensible of the imminent danger of a war there, were far from being convinced of the necessity of the present contest. For himself, he discovered a culpable omission in the Speech from the throne.
9594Mr. Hutchinson
9897 said, he thought it was rather premature to discuss a measure before its details were known. His Majesty's Speech was, in his opinion, calculated to do great good. It expressed the determination of ministers to take the subject into their hands, and to bring it
9897Sir T. Lethbridge
—I said that the Corn laws were closely allied to the state of the currency.Sir T. Lethbridge.
101 said, he could assure the House, that every one of the public letters which had recently been received, held out confident hopes of a successful termination of hostilities in India. The hon. gentleman had said, that the Court of Directors had no confidence in lord Amherst. This statement was disproved by the fact, that the directors had, if they chose to exercise it, the power of recalling him; which they had not done. Ought the conduct of such a man to be judged of by private letters? If there was any part of the noble lord's conduct on which the hon. gentleman could lay his finger in the way of censure, he was warranted in doing so; but let him do it on ostensi-
101Mr. Fremantle
 could not see on what ground it should have been thought, that lord Amherst was implicated in the affair of Barrackpore. He was in possession of a variety of documents, which would remove any such opinion; but he did not think it necessary to lay them before the House. Equally unfounded were the reports which were daily published as extracts from private letters from India. The writers of those letters filled them with idle gossip, as if they wished to ascertain how far the credulity of their friends in England would go.Mr. Wynn
 observed, that the hon. member was greatly misled, if he believed that no communication was made to the refractory troops for ten days before it was found necessary to resort to force. The very reverse was the fact; for, from the time that they first objected to march, up to the period when the fatal termination of the affair occurred, communications were every day made to them, and no pacific effort that could be resorted to was left untried. An offer was made on the part of the general officer in command, to refer the case to a court of inquiry, and the troops were told to send those of their body in whom they could most confide, to attend that court, and explain the nature of their complaints; and that if found reasonable, they should be immediately redressed. They refused, however, to listen to any terms of accommodation.Mr. Fremantle
 said, it should, in justice to lord Amherst, be stated, that he was not in any degree implicated in the unfortunate occurrence at Barrackpore. He therefore hoped, that, in justice to the noble lord, all papers relating to that transaction would be laid before the House.Sir C. Forbes
 applied himself to that part of the Speech which touched upon the affairs of India; and reminded the House, that the observations of the hon. member for Montrose, on the preceding evening, were unanswered. He concurred with that hon. member as to the rise and progress of the war in India, and trusted that what he had said would have due weight with the House. The state in which we were now placed as to India was extremely critical, and he thought that upon the Burmese war there could be but one opinion; namely, that it ought to be ended as speedily as possible. The war had now lasted two years. It had assumed the character of a war of extermination. We might force our way, by the blood and valour of our soldiers, to the Burmese capital; but when we got there, we should be no nearer a termination of the contest than before. The Speech of last session had told the House, that none of the other native powers of India were inimically disposed towards us. The Speech delivered from the throne this session did not venture to tell us so much. If, as he contended, the country had involved itself in an unjust and dangerous war, the best way to escape would be by retracing their steps. He regretted that the wishes of the country had not been complied with by the recal of lord Amherst, a nobleman who, however amiable his private character, was evidently incompetent to discharge the high duties of governor-general of India. If we did not adopt different measures, we must make up our minds to lose India.Sir Charles Forbes
96 said, he did not feel so much apprehension as had been expressed by many hon. members, at the late agitations in the commercial affairs of the country, because he considered occasional paroxysms of that nature as inseparable from the enlarged and growing bulk of the trade and resources of this great nation. He could not agree in attributing any of the distress which had prevailed to the Bank of England, though he was not prepared to oppose the measures which were to be proposed for opening the traffic to other adventurers. He did not see the reasons which limited the Bank of England to a radius of exactly 65 miles. As to improving the business of banking by enlarging the number of persons in the firm, though the existing law limited them to six, it was seldom that a country banking establishment contained so many partners, as the law allowed. He really believed that the average did not exceed three to a firm of all the establishments which existed. But suppose an alteration of the law should enable bankers to enlarge the numbers of the firm, were they sure that persons of property would come in, and, by placing all their disposable funds in a bank, subject themselves to the hazards of trade, and the probable visitation of the bankrupt laws? It was clear to him that they would not. And then, would that bring the public the security go much desired? On the contrary, would not the chances of insolvency be
96Mr. Lockhart
102 defended the authenticity of the information contained in the letters to which he had referred. As to the affair at Barrackpore, the conduct of the government was most blameable, in neglecting to give any answer to the applications made to them on the part of the troops which had refused to march. The then adjutant-general was now in London, and therefore the truth of the circumstance to which he alluded might be easily ascertained. Another ground on which he objected to the conduct of the Indian government on that occasion, was the manner in which it had behaved towards the native officers of the refractory troops. It was admitted, that they had remained faithful to their engagement to the Company, and refused to join their mutinous troops; yet, after this, and because they had not foreseen or prevented what had happened, every one of them was dismissed the service, as no longer worthy of the confidence of the Company. Was this a just or reasonable course towards men who had acted with such fidelity; or was it any encouragement to officers who might be placed in similarly delicate situations? Again he asked, what was the conduct of the government towards the unfortunate men who had been convicted of mutiny? They were (many of them men of high caste) condemned to work in irons on the public roads. It was true this was a commutation of the punishment of death,
102Mr. Hume
10099d.s. said, he did not see what possible connexion existed between them. The hon. baronet had stated, that the sentiments of the manufacturers were altered on the subject of the Corn laws, and that they now viewed them in a favourable point of view. He would not deny, since the hon. baronet had stated the thing as a fact, that there were some manufacturers in Somersetshire who would rather pay 110099d.s.Mr. Hume
 was astonished to hear the doctrines which had been broached by the hon. baronet. If the views of the hon. baronet were correct, the currency of the country was always regulated by the Corn laws. As well might he have contended, that the monopoly of the tea trade enjoyed by the East India company, or that any other monopoly, had such an influence on it.Mr. Hume
 begged to ask a question of the gentlemen on the Treasury bench, upon a subject of considerable public interest. He understood that, of its own authority, government had taken upon itself to refuse the issue of any stamps for one and two pound country notes. If this was the fact, he thought it a great stretch of power.Mr. Calcraft
127 said, it was perfectly true that the government had taken upon itself to refuse stamps for one and two pound country notes. He imagined, that the understanding was general; that, if necessary, a short bill might be brought in to provide for exigencies, until the plan of the chancellor of the Exchequer was regularly stated. As the matter, however, was to come on so soon as Fri-
127Mr. Herries
 said, it was the first time he had known government take upon itself such a responsibility, under such circumstances; and this, too, without even taking the opinion of the law officers of the Crown as to its legality. If the exigency was so pressing, a short bill ought to have been brought in; and the forms of the House might have been dispensed with. For himself, he thought the course most unjustifiable; and that it exposed the parties to actions of damages.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that any measure to alter the law of election must, at the eve of a general election, be looked at with peculiar jealousy.Mr. Hutchinson
128s.s., in moving for leave to bring in his bill, called upon every gentleman who had complained of the state of the 40128s.s.Mr. R. Martin
 said, that the plan of compelling people to show receipts for the discharge of rent, would be very objectionable.Sir H. Parnell
 wished the account to extend to Scotland.Mr. Grenfell
151 said, that the system upon which the Scotch banks were conducted, was that of creating an artificial capital, which was lent out in aid of the manufactures and trade of the country. That this system had been productive of great advantages, was proved by this, that it had raised Scotland from being the poorest country in Europe, to the state in which it at present was. The banking system in England was upon a different footing, it had the effect of keeping up a system of trading and manufacture which ministers were using every effort in their power to oppose. When they found that the system now pursued by ministers actually sent twenty four millions a year out of the country without any return, it would be clearly seen that nothing but our banking system could have prevented the present distresses of the country from having come upon her long before. And if ministers persevered in their intended plan of withdrawing the one and two pound country bank notes from circulation, they would aggravate those distresses ten fold. It was to him astonishing that the House should continue to look with silence upon this conduct on the part of his majesty's government; first causing of a great evil, then suddenly changing their measures, and thereby aggravating the distress which their first error had caused. He begged of the House to recollect this argument with respect to our commercial system, that our foreign commerce, including shipping and all, did not amount to more than forty millions a-year, while our manufactures, agriculture, and internal trade and commerce, amounted to one hundred and thirty millions per annum. Such being the case, it became
151Mr. Robertson
 thought the account objectionable, as an intrusion upon the affairs of individuals. If the principle wag once established, that any member might move for an inquiry into the private concerns of parties, it was difficult to see where the operation of that principle might stop. How could that House entertain cognizance of the debts which had been proved. He hoped the Chancellor of the Exchequer would not accede to such an improper motion.Mr. Maberly
 wished Scotland to be included, because he was persuaded that a return to the motion, as regarded Scotland, would be nil.Mr. Grenfell
147 saw no objection whatever to the motion. He thought it quite reasonable that the House should be in possession of any facts relative to the number of country banks which had failed. Such a return could do no mischief to parties who might have failed and were in business again. With regard to the terms in which the country bankers were spoken of in the correspondence between the government and the bank, he could have no objection to give every explanation to those who might fancy themselves injured thereby. Most certainly, it never had been the in-
147The Chancellor of the Exchequer
148 was happy to hear the explanation given by the right hon. gentleman; but, without that explanation, he certainly should not have understood the expressions, "rash speculations, aided, fostered, and abetted, by the country banks," as exactly placing the country bankers upon that advantageous ground which it seemed they really occupied in the right hon. gentleman's opinion. For himself, however, he denied the fact that it was by the issues of the country banks that the rash spirit of speculation, as it was called, which had existed in the country, and the enterprises to which that spirit had led, had been supported. Seventeen millions of paper could not have been issued by any country banks for purposes of speculation, and that speculation principally carried on in London. For, as fast as a country note made its appearance in London, it was instantly converted into a bank of England note, or into gold, or the banker was discredited. Those speculations, which, joined to the conduct of government, had done so much to disorder the country, never could have been carried on by country bank notes. To the motion he saw no objection. As far, however, as disclosure went, it would do the country bankers no harm, but good. It was well for ministers to talk of country paper! The right hon. gentleman had more
148Mr. Calcraft
 repeated his denial of any proposition having been made in writing by the Bank to establish branch banks; though, if they had made such a proposition, ministers would have deemed it inadequate to the prevention of a crisis like that through which the country had just passed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was anxious to explain an observation of his which had been misunderstood by the hon. member for Wareham. That hon. member seemed to be of opinion, that he had thrown the whole blame of the excess of issues on the country banks. He wondered how the hon. member could have so misunderstood him. What he did say, was, that it was not possible to charge the whole evil, or even its origin, on the country banks, or upon any persons issuing paper. The speculations which had brought on the present crisis were of a character necessarily incident to all commercial countries, where there existed a great share of capital and enterprise. In all such cases, individuals would be found ready to take advantage of every circumstance favourable to their own interests. He had further said, that the speculations of 1819, whatever their immediate effect, had been followed by increased confidence and speculation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was most ready to admit the right hon. gentleman's explanation. He felt it at the same time necessary to say, that the papers on the table went far to strengthen the impression he at first entertained of what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Calcrqft
 presented a petition from certain Silk Throwsters of Somerset, against the importation of foreign Silks.Sir T. Lethbridge
 called the attention of the House to one or two facts connected with this subject. It was said, that 30 per cent was a protecting duty for our silks; but he knew that wrought silks could be introduced, both from India and from France, at such a rate as to compete with our manufacturers when putting the raw material into the loom. Would the House, then, allow ministers to persevere in a system which would destroy a trade that the country had been nursing for ages? To compete with the French was impossible. They had a particular kind of silk which they never allowed to go forth but in a manufactured state. Let that silk be brought into our market, and it would be bought up at whatever price by our fashionables. These silks, once introduced, would drive our produce out of the market. Was the English manufacturer, with a load of debt hanging like a millstone round his neck, to be compelled to a competition with the French manufacturer, whose debt sat so lightly upon him that it was not felt as a burthen? Were they to tolerate such a proceeding? Let them call upon ministers to put this part of their new measures at rest. How else were they to get out of the difficulties and distresses under which the country laboured, unless by giving every stimulus to industry, which was at present at a stand. The labouring classes were without employment, and the means of procuring food or raiment; and yet ministers persisted in subjecting the manufacturers to the competition of cheaper markets.Mr. Robertson
155d.s.s.s.s.,d.,s.d.s.154 presented a petition from Taunton, against the introduction of French silks, which, he said, deserved the serious consideration of the House. The subject, he hoped, would undergo discussion at an early period, seeing that hundreds of thousands of people anticipated ruin and starvation from the importation of foreign silks. It was not now the time for him to go into that discussion; though it would be very desirable if the president of the Board of Trade could contrive to be in his place when petitions of this nature were sure to come on. He hoped to see the question set at rest. The conviction on his own mind was settled long ago. What he wished to see was, whether or no the House would support ministers in their desperate resolution. Great anxiety existed among the silk manufacturers, and
155d.s.s.s.s.,d.,s.d.s.154Mr. Baring
 said, that no proposition had, in fact, been made in the written communications of the Bank to establish branches of its own institution. Something of that kind might have passed in the course of the discussions, but certainly no direct proposition to establish branch banks of their own had been advanced in writing by the Bank.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the hon. member for Taunton had mistaken his expressions, both as to time and meaning. It was not on a petition which he had presented, but in the course of the observations which were made on the report of the Address that he had stated that which he believed to be perfectly correct; namely, that the great body of the manufacturers took a more chaste view of the corn question than before. He had never taken upon him to say, that the manufacturers would have no complaints about the price of corn, however high; but only that, in the present state of the price of provisions, they did not complain of the Corn laws, but of the destruction of their trade. And, indeed, in their present condition, it would not be surprising if they were to complain of the price of provisions, however low. Yet, to be candid, he could not but look upon this alteration of the silk trade as an outwork to a similar alteration in the Corn laws, which, if not directly touched, was so by a side-wind, tending at no distant period to an open trade in corn. From the distress resulting to the manufacturers from this first attempt, the House might be called upon to consider of a similar alteration in the corn trade. He thought that, if the intentions of government bore that way, the more manly course would have been to begin with the corn trade. For his own part, he must oppose any proposition like that of a free trade of corn. As long as the national debt remained, no such thing could be listened to. The country could not support that competition and its present burthens together. He would be as glad as any to see low prices, but high prices there must be. The prices must be kept up by an import duty, amounting to an absolute prohibition, so long as the interest of the national debt was to be paid.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he had never encouraged this particular measure respecting silk: on the contrary, he was almost the only person who had raised his voice against it from the outset. Still it was rather hard, he must admit, to throw the whole responsibility of the bill upon ministers, since it had passed through the House with almost unanimous approbation. He was old enough to know, that those measures were not always the best and wisest which received the readiest acquiescence of that House.Mr. Baring
 said, he understood, that a gentleman had lately returned from the Continent, who had been abroad during the whole of last year, under instructions from his majesty's government to collect information on the state of the foreign corn trade. He was anxious to know if that gentleman had made any report upon the subject, and if so, whether and when it would be presented.Mr. Baring
, that the time had come when all those exclusive charters were to be abolished, by which the community at large always suffered for the gain of a few. Full of faults as was the paper lately sent by the government to the Bank, he entirely concurred in that passage of it which put an end to the hope of a renewal of the Bank charter. As the word "lottery" was introduced in the accounts called for, he was anxious to know how it had happened that the pledge given by the government two or three years ago for the extinction of lotteries in that year had not been fulfilled? It seemed to him that these lotteries were to be carried on perpetually; two of them were still advertised. How had this happened?Mr. Humehoped
 replied, that on the subject of lotteries it was true, and he ought to take blame to himself that it was so, that when he had brought in his former bill, an adequate provision was not made for their speedier extinction. When he had moved the resolution in the year 1823, upon which the lottery bill was founded, he was not sufficiently aware of the mode in which these lotteries were practically conducted. It was never the custom, he had since ascertained, that they should be drawn in the same year, for the service of which they had been voted. The consequence was, that the lottery for one year spread over one or more future years, and hence arose the apparent inconsistency between the pledge he had given and the fact which the hon. member had stated, of the prolongation of these lotteries. There were now, however, only two of them remaining to be drawn, and these must be concluded within the present year, and he pledged himself that they should be the last.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 condemned in the strongest terms the policy of government, in breaking down the old commercial system of the country, to make way for theoretical notions of a mischievous tendency. He alluded chiefly to the condition into which the silk trade had been thrown, and the manner in which government, whilst sweeping away other charters, were ready to set up a charter against that class of traders who deserved their encouragement.Mr. Robertson
l.160l.,l.l.l.l.l.159 said, that although the accounts for which he was about to move were generally granted without opposition, he hoped, under the particular circumstances of the times, that he should be allowed a brief explanation of his views as connected with them. The accounts referred first to the balances lodged by the government, for the public, in the Bank; and next, to the charges for the management of the public debt, and other services performed by the Bank for the public. It was, perhaps, in the recollection of those who now heard him, that when he had first called the attention of parliament to the affairs of the Bank, the production of these accounts was resisted, not only by that corporation, but by the then chancellor of the Exchequer. After, however, a two or three years perseverance in calling for them, the resistance gave way, and on every successive year that he had since called for them, they were yielded without a struggle. It was thought by many, that the publicity which had been given to the transactions between the government and the Bank had been productive of public good. And, when he considered the approaching period of the expiration of the charter—a charter which he hoped and trusted would expire—he thought that, as the question between the Bank and the public was about to terminate, he should be allowed to say a few words for perhaps the last time, on the state of their affairs. The first class of accounts which he now called for related to the deposits of public money lodged in the Bank for current use, in the same manner as any gentleman kept his
l.160l.,l.l.l.l.l.159Mr. Grenfell
, while he had no objection to the production of these returns, because, under existing circumstances, he thought a case was made out to call for them, begged to enter his protest against such motions being considered as mere matters of course. Neither the Bank nor the government opposed the production of these returns; protesting, however, against their consent being taken as a matter of course.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the Bank proprietors might refuse to call for the accounts, from a confidence in their directors, but it did not follow that parliament should participate in the same confidence. He did not mean to say whether parliament confided, or did not, in that body, for he would decide on each case as it arose. With reference to the stoppage of the stamping of country bank notes, it was, on the part of ministers, a glaring violation of the existing law, and ought not to have been done without notice. Did the government mean to continue the instructions already sent to the board, to prevent the further stamping. If they did, he would tell the right hon. gentleman that the proceeding would cast such a discredit on the country bank notes, as to throw the local circulation in every corner of the kingdom into the greatest confusion. The effect would necessarily be, that the panic, which was said to be subsiding, must become perpetuated. There was no analogy between the mode of effecting this matter, and the regulating the duty on thrown silk; for, in the latter, the thing was cautiously done, and proper security was received from the parties. But was any security here taken for the loss of revenue which the country would suffer from stopping the stamping of country bank notesMr. Calcraft
 said, that government had been induced to send that order to the Stamp-office, that advantage might not be taken by the country bankers to get stamped an unusual quantity of notes; by which means the effect of the proposed measure would be forestalled. He did not intend to deny, that the issuing such an order might require an act of indemnity from parliament, but he trusted, when the necessity of the case was taken into consideration, that the House would not impute such a proceeding to any improper motive.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not mean to say, that ministers were actuated by improper motives; but he believed that in this, as in many other instances, they had committed a great error in judgment, and fallen into heavy mistakes. Why not have mentioned their intention? The parties would then have, known their real situation? The ministers might rely upon it, that this harsh and abrupt measure would deteriorate the local currency, and keep alive the panic which they thought had subsided.Mr. Calcraft
 was surprised at the lightness with which his hon. friend appeared to treat the subject. He supposed his hon. friend was not aware that every country bank had taken out and paid for a license, which entitled them to get notes stamped up to next October, under the sanction of an act of parliament. He was glad to see the right hon. gentleman treat the subject more seriously.Mr. Calcraft
 beheld the measure with great alarm. From the information which he had received from the country, he could add his testimony to what had been stated by his hon. friend, of the effect which it was likely to have in deteriorating the country bank notes. He regretted that government had taken, upon its own authority, to effect this object in so strong and unconstitutional a manner, without the previous interposition of parliament. He had heard of notes being sent up to be stamped, and which were expected back to meet previously formed engagements. Let the House contemplate the inconvenience which must follow from such a state of things. He hoped ministers would re-consider the matter before it was too late, or else the agricultural distress of 1821 and 1822 would return upon the country with redoubled force.Mr. Gordon
 was no advocate for the banking system, but must condemn the measures which were in contemplation. After encouraging extensive circulation, it ill became ministers so abruptly to suspend it.Mr. Robertson
156 implored ministers to take the subject of the silk trade again into consideration. He gave them credit for their intentions; but the consequences of their measures were just such as, two years ago, he had predicted. Open the ports of England, he had said, to foreign silk, and the home manufacturer must be ruined. In his neighbourhood, thousands
156Mr. Davenport
 disclaimed having recommended the measure; but did not apprehend the same consequences from it as his hon. friend.Mr. Ellice
 approved of the course adopted by government. If they had not stopped the stamping of country notes, the consequence would have been, that the country banks might have supplied themselves for a year to come, by which means the laudable intention of government would have been defeated. He granted that such a proceeding was illegal; but, in a case of so much importance, the duty of government was, to weigh what would be of the least inconvenience to the public; and, in his opinion, they had chosen the right course.Mr. Ellice
l.l. gave notice that on Thursday next, he would move for an account of all the issues of gold coin at the Bank from July 1823 to the 1st of February 1826. In 1823, he believed the 1l.l.Mr. Ellice
157 said, that the hon. baronet was certainly right in considering this measure as the outwork of an attack on the Corn laws. If the principle of freedom was to be applied to other trades, it ought to be applied to the trade in corn.
157Mr. Ellice
 said, that the Bank had said expressly, that the proposal which had been made by them was not one which ministers could adopt, because they considered it inadequate. Certainly, if such a proposition had been made by the Bank, it ought to be known to the House.Mr. Tierney
—Then, in point of fact, the Bank did never make any such proposal ["No," across the table]. Then it ought not to have appeared in a written communication of their own that they did.Mr. Tierney.
 wished to ask a question of the chancellor of the Exchequer, in order to solve a doubt suggested by the correspondence between the Bank and government, concerning branch banks. In the answer of the Treasury committee of the Bank to the communication from ministers, they said, "Finding also, that the proposal by the Bank of establishing branch banks is deemed by his majesty's ministers inadequate to the wants of the country, &c." What he wished to ask was, when the Bank made that proposal to establish branch banks, what was the nature of that proposition, and why it was not before the House?Mr. Tierney
150149 thought, that though it would be perfectly easy to obtain a return of the number of failures of country bankers, it would be extremely difficult to learn the amount of the dividend they had respectively paid. The object of the hon. gentleman appeared to be, to show the advantages of the Scotch system of banking, as compared with that obtaining in England; both with regard to its general security, and as not being obnoxious to the objections of encouraging undue adventure. But, if such were the hon. gentleman's view, Mr. Gurney said, he must entirely differ with him. There was nothing he should more deprecate than the introduction of the Scotch system into this country, as he was convinced, that its direct tendency would be to the increase of the number of bankruptcies, though not, perhaps, leading to the breakage of so many banks. The Scotch system was one which went, much more than that of England, towards facilitating speculations of every kind; but, it was the customer there who broke, and the banker who swept his securities.150149Mr. Hudson Gurney
 condemned this mystery on the part of the Bank of England, and preferred publicity as by far the better course, both for the Bank and the country. They had the example of the Bank of France in favour of the public inspection of such accounts, and it ought to encourage similar publicity in this country.Mr. Monck
165 thought the measure most salutary. In proposing it, government had not led, but followed, the public mind, which was unequivocally in favour of it. The injury done to the private bankers
165Mr. Monck
 thanked the right hon. gentleman for the manner in which lie had delivered the consent of the Bank; for certainly this information ought not always to be given as a matter of right. Indeed so impressed were the Bank proprietors of the injury to the public interests which might follow these constant disclosures of the state of the Bank affairs, that they had by large majorities refused to grant them in general courts. The directors were ready to give every necessary information; though he renewed their protest against its being called for as a matter of course.Mr. Pearse
161l., said, he had no objection, on the part of the Bank, to the production of these accounts; but he would not, on the present occasion, go into the merits of the public bargain with the Bank, or the terms which ought to accompany the contingent respecting their charter. He hoped that important subject would in due time be gravely considered; not as it regarded the Bank itself, but as it would best serve the government and the country. They would at least come to the discussion with the full knowledge of the eminent services performed by the Bank for the public, when that corporation had stood in the gap, and effected what, upon emergencies, legislative interposition would have failed to accomplish. What the consequences to the public would be, if there were not such an establishment in existence in its chartered form, he would leave others to anticipate. As to the allowances to the Bank, it would be time enough to discuss their amount when the charter was under consideration; but really when the hon. gentleman thought proper to estimate the services performed by the Bank, he should not keep back the immense risks and losses which they incurred, in transacting the public business. On a late occasion they had lost by the forgeries of a single person above 250,000161l.,Mr. Pearse
152 said, that the subject might hate been touched upon verbally and iu-
152Mr. Pearse
 said, that when an intrusion upon the private affairs of individuals was spoken of, it ought to be recollected of the country bankers, that they had in fact been dealing in that which was the money of the country. Theirs was quite a different case from that of merchants or ordinary traders; and he was therefore disposed to support the motion. He had not until that morning read the correspondence between the Treasury and the Bank; but, in reading it he had been much struck with a paragraph which stated, that the country banks, all of them, without exception, had for some time fostered, supported, and encouraged, a rash spirit of speculation. Now, in the name and on behalf of very many country bankers who claim to be considered men of honour, prudence, and integrity, he called on the chancellor of the Exchequer, to state the grounds upon which he had made that sweeping accusation. At the same time, it would, perhaps, be convenient to the right hon. gentleman to prove to parliament the sound policy of directing public odium against the country banks at this particular crisis.Mr. John Smith
 said, he had no objection.Mr. Hume
 moved for a return, "of the number of Country Banks issuing notes that have become bankrupts since January 1816, up to the present time; stating the place where the banks were established, the number of partners in each bank, the amount of debts proved against each, and the amount per cent of dividends paid or declared upon each, as far as the same can be complied with." The House would then have before it, a statement of the extent to which the public banking had suffered by the country system.Mr. Hume
 thought, that the trading in money ought not to be allowed to individuals, it being a branch of the prerogative of the sovereign. As to bringing before the public, individuals who had been unfortunate, there could be no objection on that ground, as those individuals had already appeared in the Gazette. His object was merely to lay before the House certain facts. That the public had suffered much from the recent failures, by the issuers of paper, was beyond doubt; and those losses ought not to rest upon the poorer classes of the community. He was anxious that the House should see the amount of loss which had been sustained from actual failures.Mr. Hume
d.s.s. wished to excuse himself for not being present sooner. His only apology was, that he had not been absent for his own convenience, but in discharge of the duties of his office, and from which he had repaired to the House. He knew that this apology was inadequate to the occasion; but it was the best he had to offer. As to the order of the Treasury to lower the duty on thrown silk, it was a mistake to state that it was done without authority from parliament. The board of trade having satisfied themselves, that 5d.s.s.Mr. Huskisson
158 had no difficulty in stating, that the individual alluded to had
158Mr. Huskisson
 said, he never intended to intimate that his lion, friend had supported this particular measure. All he meant to state was, that the opening of the colonial trade, and the removal of the duty on the raw material, had his hon. friend's approbation.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that during the last year, the country bankers had been almost the only class of persons who had not speculated. They had been rather the victims of the speculations of others, than speculators themselves.Sir J. Wrottesley
245 begged to remind the House, that the right hon. gentleman, who now so fiercely attacked the one and two pound notes, had been, in the year 1822, a member of that very cabinet which came down to the House and introduced them. All parties then were making complaints, especially the agricultural interest. Persons were declaring that they could not pay their rent, their labourers, and their taxes; and then ministers had come down, and proposed, as a remedy for the evil, that very measure which they now desired to abrogate. He was charged with having got some new lights upon the subject. That was a mistake; it was the hon. gentleman opposite whose views had been changed. He had chosen to remain in a very small minority upon the question of passing Mr. Peel's bill; because he thought, as he thought still, that it would be impossible to pay in gold what had been borrowed in paper: and therefore he wished ministers to pause, and reconsider the steps which they were taking. He was glad to hear the right hon. gentleman speak in the terms in which he had expressed himself of country bankers;
245Mr. R. Gordon
166 before the Speaker left the chair, wished to have an opportunity of expressing what he felt as to the course now pursued. The question to be considered was one of great importance, upon which the House ought to have had some information beforehand. In his opinion, the right hon. gentleman had stolen rather an unfair march upon them. On the first day of the session he had given notice of a motion upon the subject generally, which was to come on at an early day. On a subsequent day, the right hon. gentleman had explained more fully that his motion would go to a consideration of the Bank charter acts in a committee of the whole House. On Monday last the right hon. gentleman came down, and moved that the acts respecting the Bank charter and promissory notes should be entered as read. They now passed at once to the order of the day for going into the committee. The objection which he had might appear technical only, but it comprised something very essential to the order of their proceedings. The House might be very willing and very right in agreeing to go into the committee; but, as the case stood, they had been led into an admission, which perhaps they might not have made upon a more regular discussion. He, for one, was not at all prepared for the discussion of the measures to be proposed in the committee. He was without that degree of information which was necessary. If, indeed, the right hon. mover would, on the question that the Speaker do leave the chair, detail his plan, and show clearly the nature of what he intend-
166Lord Folkestone,
167 said, that the term used by the noble lord, that he had stolen a march on the House, could not be justly applied to him. That which he was now doing was the usual practice of the House. With regard to the notice of the motion, he had found that it was incorrectly expressed. The consequence was, that his intentions had been much misunderstood. He had moved that the House should resolve itself into a committee this day, to take into consideration the Bank Charter, and Promissory Notes Acts. He apprehended, supposing that some measures were by general admission necessary, that the only proper course was a discussion of the whole subject in a committee. Not the smallest idea was conveyed to his mind, that any gentleman would adopt a step which must thwart altogether, if persevered in, any measure of any description, however urgent the necessity for proceeding. Now that, and nothing less, would be the effect of the noble lord's objection. There would, in fact, under these circumstances, be no consideration of the Bank-charter acts. The objection would, in limine, stop the discussion, and frustrate the measures which he had to propose on the part of government. The course which he had taken was the usual course, and that which was the most convenient. He should, in all probability, be called upon to answer questions and explain matters of doubt, not once or
167The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 complained of the inexpediency of the mode adopted. If the statement which they so anxiously expected would meet the difficulties of the country according to the estimate formed of those difficulties by ministers, undoubtedly the right hon. gentleman was going to propose something upon a subject of the deepest importance, concerning which the House was called upon to deliberate with a total insufficiency of information. The course taken was only suitable to subjects of a common and obvious kind. If they were about to consult on a subject of the most insignificant nature, they could not proceed with greater levity: whereas this was a subject which should have been preceded by every possible means of intelligence. Many papers and documents ought to have been produced, Rome of which had been actually moved for no doubt with a view to their usefulness on this occasion. But, at the same time, so urgent was the whole subject, so sensitive was the whole country, so anxiously did they wish to know what the government were gong to propose, that he could wish his noble friend to wave his objection. If they found themselves not to be in a condition to go on with the discussion they might report progress and ask leave to sit again.Mr. Baring
 said, his only wish was, that the House might know upon what they were to deliberate, before pledging themselves to deliberation. They ought to have the subject adequately explained; and his view was, that if not done before, at any rate it ought to have been done while the Speaker was in the chair. The effect of the present motion was, to pledge the House to an alteration of the Bank acts, without knowing that there was any necessity for alteration. However, as the feeling of the House was against the mode of proceeding which he proposed, he would not persevere in it.Lord Folkestone
168 said, the noble lord was right in his objection to the course taken; but it would not have the effect of precluding objections to the plan. For one, he protested now against any alteration of the
168Mr. Calcraft
l.193192191190189188l.187l.l.186185l.l.l.l.l.l.184183l.l.l.l.l.182l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.181l.l.l.l.l.l.180l.l.l.179178177l.176s.175174173172171170169 then rose. If, he said, he did not feel that he was acting in the discharge of a great public trust, however unworthily or unfortunately imposed on him, he should be appalled at the magnitude and importance, if not at the difficulty, of the subject on which he had now to address the House. He was well aware that much criticism would be applied, that many objections would be brought against him, both on the principle and the details of the measure which it would be his business to submit. He was well aware, that, notwithstanding the impression on his own mind was clear as to the real causes, and the proper remedy for the evils which had lately visited the country, he was likely to meet with no light hostility to his propositions. He perfectly understood the feelings which actuated the minds of some individuals on the agitation of topics of this nature; and to any observations which might flow from him in the course of this discussion, he was prepared to meet no small degree of misunderstanding, as to the principles and grounds on which he proposed to rest the projected measures. One source of reliance at least he found in himself: he came to this deliberation with a good conscience; and he hoped he might venture to ask the House for their gravest attention. He invoked their patience more particularly, because he felt a fear within himself, that he could not contrive to compress within those limits which the House usually expected its members to observe, the various parts of so intricate and interesting a subject. He entreated the indulgence of the House, therefore, to the extent of a patient hearing; not deprecating any hostile observations, in whatever spirit pronounced; but only asserting his claim to that forbearance and attention which the subject demanded, and without the exercise of which, it would be utterly impossible for him to discharge the duty which he owed to the government, to the House, and to the country.l.193192191190189188l.187l.l.186185l.l.l.l.l.l.184183l.l.l.l.l.182l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.181l.l.l.l.l.l.180l.l.l.179178177l.176s.175174173172171170169The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose to address the committee. He said he wished to preface the observations which it would be his duty to make, by requesting of the right hon. gentleman to state whether the resolution which he had just read was the only one which he meant to submit to the House.Mr. Baring
 replied, that he had no other resolution to propose on that specific part of the question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
194 said, that if that was the case, the resolution before the committee did nothing at all. It went only to say, that all the small notes now in circulation should continue to circulate till the year 1829, and no longer; but it made no provision for any new notes which might be issued in the interim. There was no objection, he supposed, that the small notes now in existence should continue to circulate till 1829; but not a word was said about any new notes that might be issued between this and that period. This, he thought, was a point on which the right hon. gentleman ought not to have omitted to touch. The right hon. gentleman had deprecated any observations as to the time when this matter was introduced by government. He could not see why this should be so. His majesty's ministers, instead of excusing themselves for the introduction of this measure now, were rather to be
194Mr. Baring
 begged to assure the hon. gentleman, that he did not allude to any opposition as that of party, but he deprecated such opposition as that which he had been led to expect from the remarks of one or two hon. members on a former evening.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
196195 observed, that opposition as a party, was at present that which the right hon. gentleman had no cause to apprehend. If there was any one thing on which the country might congratulate itself in the present period of difficulty, it was that of the absence of all party feeling from discussions of public affairs. The present practice was very different from what they had seen on former occasions—on the treaty with France, the Irish question, and other subjects, where a strong opposition was made from his side of the House to the measures of government; but at no period of modern times was there less of party feeling evinced in the discussion of matters proposed by ministers; and he was certain that, if the right hon. gentleman was not at present convinced of that fact, he would be so before the conclusion of the present session. There might be some gentlemen in the House who were disposed to legislate for our present difficulties on the pure principles of political economy; some whose remedies would have reference to the protection of the agricultural interests; some who would look chiefly to the commercial, and others to the banking, interests, but he did not believe that there were any who would offer a remedy for the evils under which we suffered, with a view to party purposes. The country was at present in too enlightened a state to allow its distresses to be made a handle for party purposes. At the same time, it must be admitted, that if any party were disposed to make a stand as a party against ministers, they never had a better opportunity than the present moment offered. The right hon. gentleman and his colleagues had, by their recent proceedings, and particularly by their correspondence with the Bank, laid themselves open to the most just censure, as being ignorant, at this interesting crisis, of the real situation of the country. What man,
196195Mr. Baring
l.l.l.l.202l.l.ll.201l.200199198 said, he had not intended I to apply it to the right hon. Secretary, whose sound mind would lead him to take a more clear view of the question. But, he had mentioned the fact, that such an amendment had been proposed at the time, as an illustration of his argument, that the perfect theorist made for his object at once, and without reference to the particular circumstances by which he was surrounded. Now, what he wished to impress on the House was, that they must approach the end in view according to the difficulties which opposed themselves; and the first step necessary to be taken was, to acertain what was the nature and the cause of those difficulties. As to the latter, he agreed generally with the right hon. gentleman, except that he had rather studiously kept out of view the share which the government had in their production. If he were asked his opinion on the subject, he would say, that the Bank of England—(and when he spoke of the Bank, he begged to repeat what the right hon. gentleman had said of the country banks—that it was not the individuals, but the system of which he complained; for the individuals who composed the directory of those establishments, he had personally the highest respect, from his recollection of the time when he was associated with some of them, and from his intimate acquaintance with their private worth)—had, in some degree, contributed to the present difficulties. He did not mean, of course, to say that they did so intentionally, but that such was the result of part of the system on which they had acted. One cause amongst others of that distress, was the great facility which existed at the end of the war of obtaining a metallic currency. There was at that period a facility of obtaining gold and of returning to a metallic currency, which had not existed to the same extent since; but it did not follow, that because there was a facility of procuring gold, it would therefore come into the country. They who reasoned thus would greatly deceive themselves. Gold and silver would not come unless we had something to give for them, and unless that something was in demand with those countries where it was in plenty. It had been a favourite theory with some to say, that by contracting its issues the Bank could cause gold to come into the country; but that alone would not be sufficient, for unless we sent commodities for it, we could not procure it,
l.l.l.l.202l.l.ll.201l.200199198Mr. Baring
—No, only five millions and a half.The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
216215l.l.;l.214l.l.213212211210209208207206205coup-de-grace204203l.—He did not wish to overstate the matter, and would take the sum to be that which the right hon. gentleman had stated. It was advanced by the Bank to enable the government to pay the dividends. The practice was, for the Bank to advance the sum necessary to pay the dividends, before the government received it; and then to have it repaid shortly afterwards, when the government had received it. Now, the misfortune of this system was, that the advances were again called for in so short a period after they had been repaid, that no advantage was reaped by the Bank from the employment of the money in the interim. The reimbursement was so quick, that the Bank had no time to lay it out; and, what was worse, it was liable to all the inconvenience of having a large quantity of its paper in circulation. Besides these three items, the Bank had undertaken to pay off 2,000,000216215l.l.;l.214l.l.213212211210209208207206205coup-de-grace204203l.Mr. Baring.
220219d.s.d.s.s.218217 said, it appeared to him that the right hon. gentleman had come to the House with a proposal for applying a remedy to an evil, the nature of which he had not yet ascertained. He thought he did the right hon. gentleman no injustice in this belief; because, no man who looked to his speeches, and to those of his colleagues, could doubt that they appreciated the difficulty and danger which prevailed at much too low a rate. For his own part, he thought that the present crisis was much more serious, and the consequences with which it was fraught much more injurious than his majesty's ministers seemed to imagine. The revulsion which had taken place had produced universal calamity. The property of private individuals was ruined, the most important interests of the country impaired, and its commerce going to decay. Melancholy as the prospect was at this moment, there was no certainty that it would improve. The right hon. gentleman was wholly mistaken if he thought that he (lord Folkestone) was not anxious to prevent that fluctuation which had lately been experienced. On the contrary, he was most anxious to do so, seeing that he attributed to that fluctuation most of the disasters which they had now to deplore. Upon this, as well as upon many other points, he had to assure the right hon. gentleman that he was mistaken. He agreed with his hon. friend who spoke last, that the right hon. gentleman, in the plan which he had suggested, was proceeding too fast. The only remedy which he proposed was, in fact, to repeal the measure of 1823, which was a cabinet measure, and to which, as the right hon. gentleman was then a member of the government, he must be supposed to have given his assent. Although he (lord Folkestone) did not disapprove of that repeal, he must beg leave to trouble the House with a few observations upon it. It would be remembered, that the bill to which he had just alluded was first proposed in 1822,
220219d.s.d.s.s.218217Lord Folkestone
229l.l.228s.d.s.s.227226225224223222221 observed, that he concurred most fully in all the points which had been laid down in the very able speech of his hon. friend, the member for Taunton, excepting one. He certainly thought that the conduct which the Bank of England had pursued during the recent crisis entitled it to the gratitude of the country; and but for the very liberal assistance which it had rendered during the tempest, he should almost have been tempted to accede to any proposition for disjoining the connection between it and the government. What he objected to in his hon. friend's speech was, his advocating the establishment of two standards of currency, a gold and silver one. With respect to the substitution of a silver and gold currency, instead of that which at present existed, he should have no objection to its being adopted, if it were in the nature of a silver currency, to advance as that of gold might happen to recede; but as he believed that no such effect could possibly be produced, he should
229l.l.228s.d.s.s.227226225224223222221Captain Maberly
 observed, that the hon. member was mistaken in applying the remark to him.Mr. Canning
 said, that as the night was far advanced, and a number of gentlemen were understood to be still desirous of expressing their sentiments, he thought it would be most convenient that the question should be adjourned to Monday.Mr. Canning
244243242241240239238237236d.s.d.s.235l.l.234l.l.l.233l.232231230 said, that, although he could not concur with all that had fallen from the hon. member who spoke last, as to the causes of recent events, he was bound to acknowledge that he had made a very clear and luminous statement on the subject. The noble lord opposite, and his hon. friend (the member for Taunton), had, in the course of their addresses to the House, made some observations which would afford him an opportunity of giving an explanation upon a point which appeared to be misunderstood. His hon. friend, the member for Taunton, had indulged in animadversions, harsh and unsupported, on what he was pleased to call the insensibility of the first lord of the Treasury and of his right hon. friend the chancellor of the Exchequer, in respect to the present distresses of the country. He was not sure, indeed, whether his hon. friend had not included the whole of the members of government in his censure. It was not necessary to vindicate the noble lord at the head of the Treasury from the imputation of a want of feeling, either for the difficulties of the country, or the distresses of individuals. He was sure that the noble lord must be aware of the extent of suffering, from the course of his official duties, and the daily intercourse which he must have had with those who were most competent to inform him of the state of affairs in the city. Both the noble lord and his hon. friend had commented very strongly on a passage in the correspondence between government and the Bank, without dis-
244243242241240239238237236d.s.d.s.235l.l.234l.l.l.233l.232231230Mr. Huskisson
253252s.251s.s.s.250249248247246 rose. It was, he said, necessary, before he entered more at large into the reasons why he wished to take the sense of the House upon the Speaker's leaving the chair, to state why he had not taken this course at an earlier moment. Now, there was a rational objection to that course being taken on Friday last; for then, properly enough, several gentlemen were anxious to hear the statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer, but at this moment the case was materially altered. All those who thought, as he did from the outset, that the project of the right hon. gentleman was impolitic, were bound to take the earliest stand against it. All those who, after hearing that statement, thought the right hon. gentleman's plan to be fraught with danger, ought to take their stand
253252s.251s.s.s.250249248247246Sir John Wrottesley
256l.l.255l.l.l.l.254 said, he was extremely anxious to take an opportunity of expressing his sentiments on this question, which he considered of the first importance, as it involved the safety, nay, the existence, of every man's property, of whatsoever kind that property might be. He had, ever since he had the honour of a seat in that House, given his support to ministers in all their measures relating to the commercial policy of the
256l.l.255l.l.l.l.254Mr. Alderman Thompson
259258257 said, that, instead of complaining of the conduct of his majesty's government in endeavouring to put an end to the mischievous prerogative exercised by the country bankers, of adding to the circulating medium of the country at their pleasure, he was disposed to give them the greatest credit for the effort. That prerogative of the country bankers was the cause of all the evil which we at present endured: that prerogative had occasioned the redundance of paper with which the country was inundated: that prerogative, by occasioning such a redundance of paper, had increased the price of labour and of corn: that prerogative, by occasioning such a redundance of paper, had forced the 3 per cents, up to 95, which had given birth to all the extravagant speculations by which the nation had been brought to the verge of ruin. The principles on which that mischievous prerogative of
259258257Mr. Leycester
l.262261260 said, that if this measure had been proposed by way of trial, he should not have felt surprised at it, or at the manner in which it had been viewed by some hon. members; but, he must own that he lamented to find that it was proposed by his majesty's ministers, as founded upon part of his majesty's Speech, and that part, too, which referred to the distressed state of the country. As a remedy, or even a palliative, for that distress, it was nothing—nay, it was worse than nothing; for it served but to aggravate the existing evil, and carry it to a still much greater extent. Far from allaying the degree of distrust and alarm that prevailed, it would, in his opinion, serve but
l.262261260Mr. T. Wilson
268l.s.267266265264263 admitted, that the question was accompanied with consider, able difficulties, which made him pause seriously as to the vote he should give; but, after having heard the speeches of some gentlemen on that and the former evening, he must say, that those difficulties were removed, and that he was prepared to vote with government in support of the proposition before the House.
268l.s.267266265264263Mr. John Smith
274273272271270269 said, he entirely concurred with his hon. friend as to the importance of the resolution before the House, and the necessity of there being as little delay as possible in coming to a decision upon it. At the same time, he could not but feel somewhat surprised at the inconsistency of his hon. friend, in advising, in one part of his speech, that the measure should be suspended for a time, and in another, that the House should not adjourn without coming to a decision upon it. It was equally inconsistent in the hon. member to censure government for not having delayed some time longer, before they proposed the very remedy to which he now attached such importance, and now to call upon them to come boldly forward and carry that remedy into operation. He would admit, that ministers might be blamed for not delaying to propose any remedy, if by such delay it could be hoped the evil would correct itself; but, if that could not be expected, then it was their duty to come forward and show that they were alive to the subject, to frame their measure so as, if it could not cure the disorder, it would prevent its extension, and guard against its recurrence. It was impossible to avoid doing something on the subject, even though they might not succeed in affording an immediate remedy. He was glad to perceive that there were no objections to the merits of the proposed plan. The chief that he had heard were as to the time. One hon. member had said, that at such a crisis as the present it ought not to be introduced; another had
274273272271270269Mr. C. Grant
276275 wished, that the hon. members who were adverse to the measures introduced by the chancellor of the Exchequer, with a view to prevent the issue of small notes, to consider dispassionately, all the evils which it produced. An over issue of them entailed upon every class of the community, evils, which not only affected the class who might be most prepared to meet them, but even the lowest class—those who should be the peculiar object of their care. They should consider how they would be circumstanced, if they were left with a currency, which was, at all times, liable to the panic lately witnessed in this country, and to be operated on by every rumour which malignant individuals might be disposed to propagate. As affecting the country to which he belonged, no country ever suffered so much. He spoke feelingly on the subject, having been himself concerned with many of his most intimate connexions in banking there; and from the knowledge he had acquired of the system, he considered the issue of small notes, not only destructive to the person who received them in payment, but injurious, eventually, to the bankers who issued them. It might be said, that no evil could arise, where notes of this description were issued by solvent bankers. He would show how soon the most solvent bankers might be drawn into the miseries incidental to an over issue. A solvent banker, for instance, acting prudently for a series of years, finds, started up in opposition to him, a
276275Sir John Newport
286285284l.l.283282l.l.281l.280l.279278277 said, that the present question was not whether this was a prudent or an imprudent measure, but whether this was the proper time for interfering with the most delicate of all things—the currency of the country. Nothing had caused more astonishment in his mind, than the first sentence in the letter recently sent by the first lord of the Treasury, to the Bank, in which he found it boldly stated, that the panic was over, and that the pecuniary affairs of the country were once more flowing from their wholesome accustomed sources, and running through their wonted channels. For his own part, he was convinced that the panic had been increasing ever since parliament met, and that in consequence of the long continuance of this panic, the currency of the country had been reduced to so low an ebb, as to be scarcely sufficient for the carrying on of the commercial transactions of the country. The paper issues were now as much contracted as the most ardent admirer of the bullion system could wish: gold was flowing into the country as fast as possible; and it would necessarily continue to do so, for the country was full of merchandize of all sorts, which had been paid for, and which, when exported, must unavoidably in a short time bring back gold. But, at the present moment, the currency of the country was not sufficient, and in consequence of such insufficiency, there was a stagnation in all kinds of business. Ought the currency, then, at this critical period, to be still further diminished? Was it wise in the government, when such was the state of the pecuniary affairs
286285284l.l.283282l.l.281l.280l.279278277Mr. Alderman Heygate
Fervet, immensusque ruit."Quem super notas aluere ripas,"Monte decurrens velut amnis, imbres298l.,l.297l.l.l.296295294l.l.,l.,l.l.s.s.293s.292291290289288287 said, that in immediately following the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, he would endeavour to take advantage of his precept, by confining himself as much as possible to the subject under the consideration of the House. He could not, however, forbear expressing some surprise that the gentleman who had uttered that precept had himself so far departed from it as to introduce to the notice of the House a bill which he had formerly brought under its consideration; and that the hon. gentleman in adverting to that bill, had dwelt rather upon the speech which introduced
Fervet, immensusque ruit."Quem super notas aluere ripas,"Monte decurrens velut amnis, imbres298l.,l.297l.l.l.296295294l.l.,l.,l.l.s.s.293s.292291290289288287Mr. Secretary Peel
302301300 said, he had listened with great attention to the speech just delivered by the right hon. secretary; as he had listened also to the different statements of his honourable colleagues; but the conviction on his mind was, that they had altogether failed to make out any grounds for the measures they proposed, and had given none but the most inadequate and contradictory exposition of the causes and character of that condition of distress which they proposed to relieve. The arguments and course of proceeding of the right hon. secretary, indeed, though mistaken, were at least intelligible and consistent; but the arguments of his colleagues were in direct contradiction to the measures they recommended. The first origin and root of the distress under consideration, it appeared to the right hon. secretary, was to be found in the failure of some seventy country bankers, and so believing, it was consistent in him to support measures intended to limit the future circulation of the country bankers' paper, and to give it greater stability. But he desired to ask him, whether the fact were not, and if it were not well known to him, and to every gentleman whom he addressed, that it was not with the country bankers that the failures commenced? Every gentleman who heard him, knew that they began in London. Six or seven London banking-houses suspended their payments in about half that number of days, and those failures were the immediate, direct, and inevitable cause of the disasters among the country bankers. It was in London, and not in the country, that these pecuniary disorders began; in the heart of their monied system, and not in its extremities; and it was there that they must look for their cause. The failure at once of six or seven London bankers, from whatever cause it had arisen, was indeed a circumstance of great importance, and was well worthy the serious inquiry of parliament. No instance of a similar event was to be found in the pecuniary history of the country. Those houses held in their hands the active capital, the reserve for payments, the cash and funds of various kinds, of more than a hundred country banks. And, was it a matter of surprise that, under circumstances so calamitous, many of those establishments had themselves failed in the regular discharge of their engagements I It was rather matter of surprise that no greater number had failed, and that of
302301300Mr. Attwood
316315314s.s.,s.,313s.,s.s.,l.,l.,s.l.l.d.s.l.312s.sd.s.l.s.s.311310309the sum into circulation, and in, the hope of affording some relaxation to the existing pressure."308307l.l.l.l.l.l.l.306305304303 said, he was as little able to agree with his hon. friend, the member for Taunton, in the cause which he had assigned for the existing state of things; and he was satisfied that further consideration would show him, that he had mistaken for the cause of the present distress, what was only one of its consequences. He saw the origin of the present distressed condition of the country, in the large advances of the Bank to government, by which the resources of the Bank had been locked up in unavailable and inconvertible securities, and that body rendered unable to assist, in the emergency which had arisen, either the government or the country. Now, he confessed, that when he heard his hon. friend recapitulate the resources of the Bank, and state, amongst these resources, six or seven millions employed in Exchequer bills, and six or seven millions in government annuities, he calculated on his coming to a conclusion very different from one which represented the whole funds of that body to be locked up in unavailable and inconvertible securities. What securities could be more convertible or more available than these? The question plainly was, whence arose that state of things which rendered such securities as
316315314s.s.,s.,313s.,s.s.,l.,l.,s.l.l.d.s.l.312s.sd.s.l.s.s.311310309the sum into circulation, and in, the hope of affording some relaxation to the existing pressure."308307l.l.l.l.l.l.l.306305304303Mr. Attwood
317 said, that after the admirable speech of the hon. member for Callington, he could have little to add, and the less, as he (Mr. G.) in the main, agreed with the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, who had preceded him, in his view of the general working of the banking system. His object in rising was, therefore, principally for the sake of giving notice, that in case the House should go into a committee on the chancellor of the Exchequer's resolutions, he should move an amendment to leave out the words "or by the Bank of England." Mr. G. said, that the fluctuations and distresses which had been suffered by every interest, and most, perhaps, by the agricultural, were attributable to the blunders and narrowness of view, of the Bullion committee of 1810; the members of which seemed to have held a one-pound note before their eyes, and not to have been able to see through it. It had not been his good fortune to have enjoyed the acquaintance of the late Mr. Horner. He had no doubt that learned and much lamented gentleman came from Edinburgh profoundly versed in Scotch metaphysics and English law; and he gave him credit for the possession of every grace and every virtue that could adorn humanity; but, the question of the currency of this country he did not understand; and, consequently, though in the report of that committee he acknowledged a depreciation of 20 per cent, he did not perceive that it was the amount of debt and of taxation which, swelling our numerical reckonings
317Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, that in his view of the whole subject, it consisted of two parts; which, though much mixed up in these debates, it was necessary to distinguish—the one, the general state of the minor currency; the other, the present mercantile distress. Now it should be recollected, that in 1824, the circulating medium had so adapted itself to the wants of the internal traffic of the country, that no prices were extravagant, but every interest might be considered to be at ease. Towards the end of that year, from the sudden and enormous rise in the prices of the shares of one company, on which even the instalments had not been paid—company after company, bubble after bubble, sprung up; so that by the first of February 1825, there were 114 projects, for the most part utterly absurd, in existence; the shares of which amounted nominally to about a hundred millions. These paper shares might probably pass from hand to hand as an imaginary property of from five and twenty to thirty millions; which, by the first of November, were utterly extinguished. We were brought to the end of a South-Sea year; and no one could wonder at the concussion from the fall of such a water-spout. It was on this paper flooding the market, that prices of all things had been constantly rising, and, commercial adventure had run wild; and not on the unhappy one-pound notes, which formed the subject of the chancellor of the Exchequer's resolutions. Now, he repeated, that to the issue of the one-pound notes of private bankers, there had been no greater enemy than himself from the beginning; but, it must be obvious, that if these notes were to be called in, the only possible way of doing it, without bringing every thing to a stand-still, would be the substituting those of the Bank of England in the first instance, let, the final arrangement be what it might. At present, gold was only paid away to be hoarded. The conduct of the Bank of England had been, in this crisis, beyond all praise. Without their notes, nothing could go on; and, if they were withdrawn, the country would be left without a circulation, or any means of liquidating the ordinary transactions between man and man.Mr. Gurney
322† Alderman Heygate.***321**320319 rose, and said:—Before I proceed, Sir, to address the House, as briefly as I can, upon the very interesting and important subject which now engages its attention, I beg leave to set myself right with some honourable gentlemen, by assuring them, that in whatever I may say, of the present system of our currency, and of the necessity of a speedy reform in it, I do not mean, in the slightest degree, to impute blame, or imply disrespect, to a body of men, whose character has been drawn into the debate; the administrators of the system, as it at present stands [hear, hear!]. So far, Sir, from wishing to disparage the country bankers, I think they have been of great and essential service to the country. I believe them to have been the medium of communicating a wholesome stimulus to industry, and of directing into useful and legitimate channels, the industry and enterprise of the country. I believe that, if they have acted unadvisedly—if they have done any thing amiss—it is to be attributed to the nature of the system, under which they have been compelled to act, and not to any abuse of the power lodged in their hands.322† Alderman Heygate.***321**320319Mr. Secretary Canning
—I rise, Sir, to complain of the course which the right hon. gentleman is taking. I really do not think it quite fair, after I have apologized to the right hon. gentleman for the mistake into which I fell, that he should charge me with making that mistake intentionally [Cries of "No, no, unintentional"].Mr. Baring.
340339***338337336335334333332331l.l.l.l.l.330l.l.;l.l.329l.,l.l.l.l.328l.l.l.327l.l.l.l.326l.325l.l.ll.l.l.l.324323against continued.—I spoke of the error as not being intentional; but, I submit to the hon. gentleman, that the part which I took in 1811, having been, however unintentionally, misstated, that it is necessary for me to set myself right with the House. I voted, on the discussion of the report of the Bullion-committee, for all the resolutions moved by the late Mr. Horner, which went to affirm the true principles of our monetary system; and I voted 340339***338337336335334333332331l.l.l.l.l.330l.l.;l.l.329l.,l.l.l.l.328l.l.l.327l.l.l.l.326l.325l.l.ll.l.l.l.324323againstMr. Secretary Canning
342341 defended the conduct of the Bank of England, and complained
342341Mr. Pearse
349l.l.l.348l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.347346345344343 said, it was not his intention to take up a great deal of the time of the House, nor would he, in fact, have troubled hon. members at all, but that he intended to propose an amendment, in order to bring the question at once to a decision; because he was quite convinced that discussion from day to day, whatever might be its result, would have the certain effect of aggravating the difficulties under which all interests at present were labouring. What the country wanted mainly was, that the question should be set at rest. Let the decision of parliament be taken and made known, and interests would endeavour to accommodate themselves to it; but, if the House was to go into a committee, and argue the subject at length, so long as that discussion lasted, the country would be kept upon the rack. Therefore, under such circumstances, he felt it his duty to take the sense of the House at once upon the proposed measure. He felt most strongly that it was an ill-advised measure, and would add to the distresses of the country, but that, whether carried or rejected, the sooner it was dismissed the better. What he meant to embody in his amendment, was an opinion, common, he believed, to
349l.l.l.348l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.347346345344343Mr. Baring
 said, he could not tell whether his hon. friend would consider him a practical man. However, be that as it might, he would give it as his deliberate opinion, that not only might this measure be with safety adopted, but that in his conscience he believed there would be no safety for the circulation of the country without it. Further, he would say, that, in all his communications with practical men, he had not found one who did not declare that the cause of the pressure originated in the country-banknotes, and that one of the remedies was their removal.Mr. Grenfell
353352351350 said, he could not, on a question of such importance, content himself with a silent vote. Whatever opinion his hon. friend might hold of his being a practical man, he would endeavour to state, as shortly and as practically as he could, the reasons why he differed from him, on the only ground respecting which there could be any difference of opinion. His hon. friend, practically speaking, was of opinion, that a recurrence to a metallic currency was necessary to the support of our commerce; and that, without getting rid of the small notes, it would be utterly impossible to arrive at the desired result. Thus far they were agreed; and the only question between them was as to time. Now, a few words on that point only. His first reason for dissenting from his hon. friend as to time was one as purely practical, and as little visionary or theoretic as could well be imagined. His first reason for the immediate adoption of the measure, as contradistinguished from a postponement, was, that the plan was already partly in execution. His first practical reason was, the consequence of the over-trading and panic by which the mischiefs had been aggravated. The small notes did not cause the over-trading, or originate the mischief; but, when the mischief had arisen, it was then very materially aggravated by the small notes in circulation. Runs were accordingly made: and it could not be denied, that when fear seized the minds of the holders of notes, the
353352351350Mr. Brougham
354 said, he agreed completely in the justice, of the observation with which the learned gentleman had concluded his speech, and he believed that the sentiment was fully participated in by every member of the House. As the question, however, which was then before the House, namely, "that the Speaker do leave the chair," was merely a question of form, the decision of it might not appear
354Mr. Secretary Canning
 observed, that, if government destroyed all the country bankers' notes, and, at the same time, stopped the issue of one-pound notes by the Bank of England, they would leave the country in a state of destitution, of which they could not have any adequate conception. That establishment was not liable to the imputations thrown out against the country banks, of being desirous to put out their small paper without rule or guide. He should therefore move, as an amendment, that the words "or by the Bank of England" be left out of the resolution.Mr. Hudson Gurney
355 said, that although much of the inconvenience that would result from permitting country bank notes still to circulate, would not attend the continued circulation of the
355The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he could not discover the expediency or consistency of suppressing the small notes in England, and allowing them to circulate in Scotland and Ireland. If the principle were good for one kingdom, it would be equally beneficial for the others. He had received letters from Scotland which represented that country as being placed in the utmost state of alarm and apprehension as to the course which government proposed to pursue. It was not so much that the people there were anxious for the carrying of any particular measure, as that they were solicitous to know what was to happen. "Let us," they cried, "only know what you intend to do, and we shall be satisfied."Mr. Maberly
 agreed with the hon. member for Abingdon, as to the extent to which the principle should be carried; and as he perceived that the hon. gentleman had not been in the House on a former evening, when a noble lord had asked the same question, he would repeat, that it was his intention to carry the principle into full effect, both in Scotland and in Ireland, and that the only grounds for making any variation depended upon the question of time. It was his intention, however, in a very few days, to lay before the House his plan for the suppression of small notes, both in Scotland and other parts of the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he considered that the object of the amendment, namely, to allow the small notes of the Bank of England to circulate, whilst those of the country banks were suppressed, would be utterly intolerable, on any sound principle.Mr. Baring
356 said, he did not rise to continue the discussion of the night, but merely to protest against the measure which had been just adopted. He thought
356Mr. Hume
 said, that the hon. gentleman had rather mis-stated the tendency of his bill, when he said it was founded on Mr. Ricardo's principle; whereas it was well known, that Mr. Ricardo's proposition was to pay Bank notes in ingots of gold. But, the principle of his bill was, to render notes of the smallest amount convertible into gold; and there was, in addition, a positive prohibition against the circulation of country bank notes after the lapse of two years from the passing of the bill; and if that bill had been carried into complete effect there would not now have been a country one-pound note in circulation.Mr. Peel
 said, he felt the amendment which he had offered to be of so much importance, that he should persist in pressing it. He was firmly of opinion, that had it not been for the issues of the one-pound notes by the Bank of England at the time that they took place, the recent calamity would have been greatly aggravated. These issues had done the greatest good; and in the event of a similar emergency, he thought that means of similar assistance should be available to the exigencies of the country.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 was glad that the discussion would so speedily take place, but he would have been more satisfied, if the right hon. gentleman had given them hopes that he would assent to the appointment of the committee. If the manufacturers complained of one thing more than another, it was that no satisfactory reasons had been assigned for the intended alteration of the law.Sir T. Lethbridge
 rose to present a petition, to which he called the serious attention of the House. This petition, though not numerously was as respectably signed as any ever laid upon the table of that House. The subscribers were proprietors, farmers, and others, resident in and near Cirencester. All agreed in opinion, that the ministers were wrong in the course which they were about to take respecting the currency, and prayed, that the government would be just pleased to do nothing at all. It was, he thought, inexpedient to touch so delicate a matter as the currency, until the effect of the panic had subsided, and things had worked round their own remedy.Mr. R. Gordon
 strongly condemned this miscalled and delusive system of reciprocity, but which was, in point of fact, no reciprocity whatever. They were now called upon to admit French ships into their own trade.Mr. Robertson
—I did not say a word about French ships, which have nothing to do with the present question.Mr. Huskisson
361 contended, that measures of this kind, which were every day pressed forward by government, shewed a total absence of that high national feeling which had influenced the councils of Great Britain, until these late times in which they lived had cast a new light upon the whole range of their commercial policy. It was a delusion to call the present project one of reciprocity; for England, overloaded with taxes as she was, was giving away a decided national advantage, without receiving the slightest equivalent. The repeal of so essential a part of the navigation laws must have the speedy effect of throwing the trade of these new states into the hands of foreigners of all nations, who would flock to these republican governments, where they could soon acquire the rights of citizenship, and establish them selves with sufficient shipping; which could be obtained, from their greater exemption from municipal burthens, at one half the expense at which the British could provide the same marine. Thus the carrying trade of Colombia, instead of being kept by England, would be flung into the hands of foreigners, contrary to the na-
361Mr. Robertson
 wished to ask the right lion, gentleman opposite, whether the effect of these new measures had not been to diminish the number of British seamen, in the general British trade? From returns which he held in his hand, he saw that though the shipping had increased, the number of British seamen had diminished.Mr. Heathcote
 was unable to comprehend to what relaxation of the navigation laws the hon. gentleman alluded. The great principle of the navigation laws; namely, that the shipping of other countries trading to England, should be confined to the conveyance of their respective commodities, unless on the payment of additional duties, remained the same. With respect to the decrease of the seamen, he was not prepared, off hand, to explain it, if it were a fact. In time of peace it was probable that the commercial interests, though they had increased their shipping, had not, in the same degree, augmented their number of seamen. They might have economized in the latter, and perhaps had done so. There was, however, no alteration in that provision of the navigation laws which required the master and two thirds of the crew to be British subjects.Mr. Huskisson
362 wished to ask the right hon. gentleman whether he meant to redeem the pledge given last session, relative to a reduction in the duty on timber, and other articles imported for the purpose of shipbuilding. When he and others, last session, agreed to the reciprocity duties bill, they were assured that such a reduction would be effected, and it was on that ground that he supported the measure.
362Mr. Hume
 said, that the effect of the present system would be, that the whole of the ship-building would be carried to other places. Merchants would send to Canada or New Brunswick for the tonnage they required. The number of ships constructed in those ports every year, was so great, that it was difficult to procure sailors to man them. When, therefore, the merchants of this country sent a vessel out to any of those ports, it was customary for the men to leave her, and to go on board some of the newly-built vessels, which they navigated to England at a great advance of wages.Sir R. Fergusson
363 observed, that the position relative to the connexion of this country with certain of the South American states, which had recently been laid downby the hon. member for Grampound, was manifestly erroneous. Treaties had been entered into with Colombia and Buenos Ayres, states which could not, by possibility, have any shipping of their own at present; and his object was to relieve them, under these peculiar circum
363Mr. Huskisson
 repeated, that the mercantile navy of England was rapidly declining. In 1822, the amount of foreign shipping brought into this country was 469,000 tons; in 1823, 582,000 tons; in 1824, 759,000 tons; and last year it was upwards of 1,000,000 tons; while the shipping of the country remained stationary. In his view of the case, this was owing to the impediments thrown in the way of the ship-builders, by the heavy duties laid on all the articles used in building vessels. He therefore wished to know whether it was or was not intended to grant a reduction of duties on those materials?Mr. Hume
364 said, that this was another proof of the mischievous consequences of the theoretic system on which the legislature was proceeding. Let the government take off all the taxes, and then there would be something like reciprocity between this and other countries. If this were done, we could compete with—ay, and beat—the French, the Prussians, the Russians, or any other maritime power. But, while this immense load of taxes was continued, it was impossible that what was denominated reciprocity could prevail. Providence seemed, in an especial degree, to come to the assistance of this nation, when ill-judged measures threatened to injure it most severely. In the present instance, the internal commerce of England had increased amazingly. The trade with Ireland, in particular, was greatly extended; and the consequence was, that the decay of our foreign commerce was not attended with such ill effects as must otherwise proceed from its diminution. He strenuously ad-
364Mr. Robertson
359 thought the time had arrived, when it was imperative on government to do all in their power to place the currency upon a solid basis. The panic was passing away, and what was now doing would tend greatly to remove the want of confidence which prevailed in money matters. The plan now in progress would tend to secure to the poor man the full produce of his industry in a coin which could not be depreciated. He had no doubt that the return to a metallic circulation could be carried into effect with very little difficulty, for there was gold enough in the country to fill up the vacuum formed by the disappearance of
359Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he had just seen Mr. Kenrick, who, as he did not know whether the charge would or would not be entertained this day, was not prepared with counsel to meet it. He was, however, most anxious that the charge should be gone into as soon as possible. He begged leave, under these circumstances, to suggest, that the discussion should be adjourned until Thursday next.Mr. Denison
 said, that the way to administer substantial justice was, not to proceed until the person accused was prepared to make his defence. They might then proceed with the accusations. With this object in view, the inquiry ought to be postponed until Thursday.Mr. Calcraft
 knew of no means by which this inquiry could be prosecuted, except that of examining and cross-examining witnesses on the same day. It was evident, that a very different aspect might be given to the case, if witnesses were examined directly on one day, and were subjected to cross-examination on another. Such a proceeding would form a most mischievous precedent.Mr. S. Bourne
371370369 said, that as he had not had an opportunity last night of delivering his opinion on the nature of the plan proposed by ministers, he would, in as few words as possible, state explicitly what his view of the subject was. He could assure the House that his opinions were not at all altered after hearing most attentively the whole of this protracted discussion. With the greatest wish to concur in the sentiments of the majority on this occasion, he felt, after giving the question the best consideration in his power, that they were going to legislate in a most improvident and imprudent manner. He was not a favourer of that sort of currency which it was the object of the chancellor of the Exchequer to remove. He wished as much as any man for a sound metallic currency; and when misfortunes, such as those which had lately occurred, pressed heavily on the
371370369Mr. Calcraft
387386385 said, that though he had no reason to complain of the manner in which the hon. member had shaped the question which he had put to him, which was certainly neither disrespectful nor offensive in its terms, still he could not help reminding the hon. member, that if he thought his majesty's ministers were such unskilful pilots in a storm, he ought not to have contributed to support them in the management of the boat during the fair weather. He did not pretend to say, that those who supported the measures of ministers were responsible for the errors of those measures, in case they proved injurious instead of beneficial to the community—by no means; the responsibility was with government, and from that responsibility neither he, nor any member of it, wished to shrink; but this he did say, that it was a little too hard to be reproached for the weakness and impolicy of their measures, by those who had been the first to support them. Whether the present ministers were qualified to weather such a storm as now raged, it would be presumption in him to decide; but this he felt himself justified in declaring that he had endeavoured to learn something of the nature of the storm, and that the measure which he had introduced to
387386385The Chancellor of the Exchequer
389l.l.s.s.l.388 said, he had listened with eager attention to the speeches of his majesty's ministers, in which he could not discover any effectual plan for the relief of the distresses which afflicted the country. He had, from the commencement, been the person—almost the only person—who had come boldly forward to blame the ministers for the situation in which the country was placed. That it was daily declining in prosperity, and from no cause more so than from the operation of the measures lately introduced by those ministers, was a conviction strongly impressed upon his mind. It was difficult, he was aware, to adduce proofs of the declining prosperity of the country; however strongly impressed he might be with the opinion that it was in a worse condition than it had formerly been in. One
389l.l.s.s.l.388Mr. Robertson
394s., said, that the ministers, in the opinions which they expressed, and the conduct which they proposed to adopt, neither consulted the interests of the country, nor agreed with those who usually supported them. The aristocracy and the landed interest, by whom all the measures of ministers were usually upheld, were, upon this occasion, wholly at variance with them. Every body out of doors was of a different opinion from them, and every one who spoke plainly, did not scruple to say that the people were to be sacrificed to a cold-blooded theory. Excepting the members of what might be called the Political Economy Club, there were no persons to be found who approved of ministers on this occasion. Every body else believed that the country was on the eve of a convulsion, and that the measures proposed were calculated to hasten it. By whom were the proceedings of ministers approved? Who supported and cheered their statements? Not those who Bat beside them, and who were usually the most vehement of their cheerers; but those who, at other times, were their bitterest opponents. The fact could not be disputed, that the country was reduced to a degree of suffering wholly unprecedented. Ministers might carry the measures which they proposed in that House, but he defied them to carry them into effect generally. Nothing could be more disgraceful than the want of a proper circulating medium. Exchequer-bills were at a discount of 20394s.,Alderman Heygate
 was afraid, that the observations of his worthy brother alderman about the want of cheering would not have much weight with the cabinet; for if ministers did not get many cheers, they got what they liked much better, a vast majority. Although the present state of affairs was certainly very distressing, it was better to let matters go on without any legislative interference. An issue of Exchequer-bills under present circumstances would, he thought, produce no benefit, and be contrary to the established principles of political economy. The worthy alderman must have known that two great houses, intimately connected with foreign loans, had that day failed. Foreign stock, too, had fallen very low. Under these circumstances, an issue of Exchequer-bills, though it might afford some relief, could only do so at a loss of from 30 to 40 per cent. Although he differed from his worthy friend on this point, he admired his speech of last night; that was to say, he did not admire the whole of it, for it was too long; but some parts of it were well worthy of attention. His worthy friend had stated, that on a former occasion he had driven the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs out of the House, by one of his speeches. His speech of last night had produced the same effect upon him. He could not stay to hear it, but he had voted with him.Alderman Wood
396 said, he had never meant it to be understood that he had actually driven the right hon. Secretary
396Alderman Heygate
398397s. said, the worthy alderman who had just spoken (Wood) was of opinion, that it would be contrary to the established principles of political economy, for the government to adopt the recommendation of his hon. friend the member for Sudbury, and to interfere to relieve the embarrassments of the merchants by loans of Exchequer-bills on the security of goods. He would not dispute that point with the worthy alderman, but he entirely agreed with the hon. member for Montrose, that such a measure would greatly embarrass the government. As merchants borrowing such Exchequer-bills would carry them to the market for sale; but, in the present scarcity of Bank notes, no sale could be effected, except at a great depreciation. Exchequer-bills were now at a discount of 20398397s.Mr. Attwood
not in explanation, said, he had been entirely misunderstood. What he had said was, that for the Bank to lend money upon goods, in an emergency such as the present, was notMr. Attwood,
407 said, he was satisfied with the amendment proposed by his hon. friend, the member for Newton. There was at present a great and alarming evil weighing on the country. Merchants were not able to keep their engagements, and any measures which gave us safety, would be a positive blessing. It was the duty of the legislature, under such circumstances, not to waste their time in idle and fastidious cavilling, but to adopt speedy and efficient measures. The only objection to it, he believed, grew out of the scrupulousness of gentlemen as to parliamentary consistency; but, though he had as great a regard for parliamentary consistency as any man, when founded on conviction, yet he thought it was not inconsistent, in some cases, for parliament to retrace its steps. He had sat in two small minorities on the subject of Mr. Peel's bill, and he was persuaded that measure had never been adequately and completely understood. He thought it would be no imputation on the consistency of parliament to reconsider that measure. He wished not to be understood as stating this with any view of opposing ministers. He was ready to give them all the support in his power, to enable them to relieve the country from its present embarrassments. He saw a motion announced for
407Mr. Wodehouse
 said, he had heard with surprise the assertion of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson), that the "Bank of England were prohibited by their charter from lending money on goods. The confidence with which that erroneous assertion was made, had induced him to refer to the charter of the Bank up stairs. It contained no such prohibition. He would, for the satisfaction of the right hon. gentleman, in his own justification, read to the House a clause in the charter which distinctly recognized the power of the Bank to lend money on goods and commodities of whatever kind.Mr. Attwood
367 said, it was a principle of the constitution, that judges should only be removable for partial or improper conduct; and it seemed to him
367Lord John Russell
 expressed his regret that ministers were not more explicit on the subject.Mr. Davenport
381s.l.380379378377376375l.374373 said, that having voted in support of the proposition of the chancellor of the Exchequer, in opposition to certain opinions which he had been in the habit of expressing, he was desirous of explaining to the House the grounds of his vote. He quite concurred with his hon. friend, the member for Callington, as to the distressing examples which the history of our currency afforded of the effects of that nefarious system which now, thank God! they were about to get rid of. When the bill of 1819 passed, he was in a small division; not that he objected to a metallic circulation, but because he wished to have a standard accommodated to the circumstances of the country, and which would keep pace with the contracts of individuals. However, the House passed that bill, determined, at all events, to make the experiment of compelling the country to meet all their engagements, and individuals to fulfil all their contracts, according to the ancient standard. Now, he would ask, what were the consequences of departing from that resolution? The result was, that every departure made it more difficult to approach that period
381s.l.380379378377376375l.374373Mr. Ellice
357 seeing the
357Mr. Ellice,
405404 said, that the commercial world was now in a complete state of disorganization, and that the evils which had taken place in London were rapidly extending themselves all over the country, which, unless some relief was speedily
405404Mr. Ellice
 was of opinion, that great evils had resulted to the country from the principles of free trade. Very large importations had taken place, and the foreign merchants drew their bills at such short dates, that great sacrifices were necessary to meet them. He knew one house on which bills had been drawn for a million of money for wool alone. The distress at the present moment was very great, owing, perhaps to overtrading; but that spirit of over-trading he verily believed, was excited by the conversion of the 4 per cents. He thought government might afford essential relief by a timely issue of Exchequer bills. The merchants had plenty of property, but there was no sale for it; and therefore it was of no use for them to look at their books. If they had goods to the amount of half a million, they might as well have so many stones from the street, if money could not be raised upon them.Mr. Alderman Bridges
 wished to say one word with respect to the evidence adduced in the case of Mr. Smith. He admitted, that there was not one document which would have been received in a court below in this country. But, it unfortunately happened, that the evidence on which that case was founded, though it would not be received here, was received in Demerara.Mr. Brougham
372 said, in the observations he had to make, he should confine himself to that which was purely practical. He believed, that the amount of gold coin likely to be wanted, in order to replace the one-pound notes withdrawn, had been very greatly under-estimated; as he had no doubt that four-fifths of that which was issued would, in the first instance, be hoarded; and until those persons were supplied who, under the influence of distrust, were thus endeavouring to secure themselves, there could be no free circulation of sovereigns. As he had said before, he was still of opinion, that it was impossible to return to a circulation entirely metallic, unless some alteration took place in the Mint regulations. In that opinion he continued firm; and was decided in his conviction, that if government were to pursue, in their strictness, the measures they were driving forward, they would bring the country to a standstill; but in this, whether he were right, or whether wrong, it had nothing to do with that which he wished more immediately to urge.—The immediate object was, to supply some medium of sufficient security, that could not be run in more rapidly than it was physically possible to meet, and which would not be hoarded. The resolution which went to allow the bankers' notes to pass for three years longer, was, in its nature, nugatory. That species of circulation was discredited in public opinion; and the being thus cried down was nearly tantamount to its immediate suppression. He should, therefore, on the bringing up the report, again move
372Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, it did appear to him that the House of Commons, which at that moment was engaged in the consideration of matters of the most portentous nature, ought not to have its attention divided by the introduction of this inquiry. Was it proper, at such a time, that, night after night, the Commons of Great Britain should waste their time in discussing the merits of this story of a Surrey justice and the fleece of a ram?Mr. Hudson Gurney
 rose, for the purpose of proposing the amendment which he had moved on the preceding evening, in the committee; namely, to omit the words "or by the Bank of England;" the object being to retain in circulation the one and-two pound Bank of England notes, in order to prevent a total want of circulating medium in those districts where either the bankers had failed, or where the bankers notes should have been withdrawn. The hon. member said, he could not sit down without expressing his entire concurrence with every thing that had been stated by the honourable Bank director opposite (Mr. Pearse). He must say, that ever since he (Mr. G.) had had the honour of a seat in that House, the Bank of England had been most injuriously, he might say, most shamefully treated. Had it not been for the manner in which the Bank had come forward, and the measures they had taken, during the last six weeks, the country would have been in a state of indescribable embarrassment.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 appearing at the bar with the report of the Resolutions of the committee on the above acts,Mr. Brogden
 bore testimony to the great respectability of the petitioners, and concurred in their opinion, that a more unfortunate time than the present could not have been taken for agitating this important question.Mr. Benett
 complained of the manner in which the Bank had been spoken of on former occasions, and observed, that their conduct had not arisen from a desire of profit, but had been caused by the particular circumstances by which they were surrounded.Mr. Pearse
399 said, he concluded that, when the hon. member for Callington recommended the Bank to pursue the course which he pointed out, he imagined that they had not at their disposal the means of assisting the distresses of the country, and of performing their duty to the public. If the hon. member entertained any such idea, he could assure him it was completely erroneous. Within the last six weeks the Bank had, in the most unlimited manner, assisted in relieving the distresses of the country, in so far as they had been brought to their knowledge. They still continued to feel the same desire to assist the mercantile interest. At the present moment, the discount of merchants' paper by the Bank was going on to the utmost possible extent, provided that paper was good. The tendency of the measures adopted by the Bank during the existing distress, had all along been, to afford the utmost facility, consistent with security, to the discounting of merchants' paper. But all the assistance which could be afforded by the Bank was not sufficient to meet the public difficulties. There was a class of merchants possessing great property, who yet were not in a situation to present bills to be discounted. To this class accommodation might be granted in the best manner, as had been done on former occasions. He agreed with the chancellor of the Exchequer, that the measure to which he now alluded should not be too frequently adopted. It should only be resorted to in extreme cases, and not when individuals might have been induced to enter upon extravagant speculations, in the hope of obtaining assistance from that very measure. He thought, however, that the difficulties of the present period formed a case which would authorize the adoption of the measure in question. It was notorious, that, at the present moment, merchants of the
399Mr. Pearse
395 wished that the worthy alderman, while he was abusing the system of political economy, had pointed out what particular part of the system he objected to. If the worthy alderman alluded to the measures adopted by ministers with respect to free trade, he could by no means agree with him. Those measures had met with the general approbation, not only of parliament, but of the country. He could not suppose the country would show such a want of good sense as to turn round at the present moment, and find fault with the operation of those measures. With respect to the present measures of government, he thought they were ill-timed; but ministers were placed in a situation of great difficulty, and it was hard to say what ought to be done. The worthy alderman complained of the principles of political economy; but he hoped that within his own domestic arrangements things were well conducted; that his expenditure did not exceed his income, and that he adopted the best means of providing for his own comfort and independence. If he did so, he acted upon the principles of political economy, which he so much abused; for just in the same sense were they applicable to the affairs of the state. It was not the fault of government that things were not on a proper footing. When they proposed a useful measure, in stepped the worthy alderman, and exclaimed against it. When they abstained from so doing, he equally censured them: so that it was impossible to know what he approved of, or condemned. Before he lavished his censure upon the system of political economy, he was bound to
395Mr. Hume
368 said, that as he had received no notice of the opposition which
368Mr. Denman
 wished that the entry on the Journals of last session, relative to this case, should be read. I was his intention to have moved, that on this day the House should resolve itself into a committee to investigate this subject further; and then, in that committee, he would proceed to examine witnesses. Since he had come down to the House, he had heard that the gentleman who was the object of this charge was not perfectly prepared to meet it, as he was not provided with counsel. Now, although he did not wish to take any undue advantage of that gentleman, he would persevere from day to day, as far as the business of the House would permit him, until he had brought this matter to a termination. He meant to move that the House should resolve itself into a committee; but, whether that committee should take place this day or on any other, he would leave to the decision of the House. If the gentleman who was the object of this charge thought that the direct examination of witnesses this day, leaving to him the privilege of cross-examining them on a future occasion, would answer his convenience, and be sufficient for the attainment of impartial justice, he was ready to adopt that course.Mr. Denman
384l.l.383382 said, he had listened, with great attention, to the speech of the hon. member for Coventry, and, although he agreed with him upon some points, he could not but say there was a great deal of inconsistency in his reasoning. At one time, he said the evil proceeded from a reduction of capital, at another, from over-speculation and redundance; and, while he argued that there was no apprehension of the contempt of the nations of Europe, or of any attempts upon the peace of this country from the state of its finances, he, the next moment, deplored the existence of that contempt, and expressed his dread of its effects; first saying, that the evils of the day would go to the root of credit, if not put a stop to; and Then asserting, that our credit was already lower than that of any nation on earth. He did not mean to follow the hon. gen-
384l.l.383382Mr. T. Wilson
 said, that when he spoke of his confidence being lessened in ministers, he was not speaking of his confidence in the wisdom of their general policy, but of his confidence in their wisdom as to this particular measure.Mr. T. Wilson
 observed, that the temporary aid by an increase of bank paper, would not afford relief to all those who were in need of it. If ministers would now declare, that they would grant relief in the old way, that declaration, circulated throughout the country by the press tomorrow, would revive confidence. The assurance of relief was almost all that was wanted.Mr. T. Wilson
403vice versâ. begged pardon of the hon. member, but he had understood him to say, that if government could not take goods, the Bank might; but that the measure was contrary to political economy. Whether or not it was contrary to political economy, there was a more practical objection to it; such a proceeding was contrary to their charter; the Bank could not deal in goods, nor lend money upon goods. The question then was, what could be done to supply a more abundant circulation? Now, if there was one of the principles of the committee of 1819 in which all agreed, it was this—that if a circulation was furnished by bank notes to supply the exigencies of commerce, and the wants of the country, it was immaterial whether it was supported on the credit of one species of security or another. In other words, it was immaterial whether the number of bills of exchange was greater in proportion to government securities, or 403vice versâ.Mr. Huskisson
402401 observed, that, as the debate had been exclusively confined to that part of the House which considered itself purely practical in the matter in question, he would not travel out of the line which had been pursued, after the example of the hon. member for Coventry, who had entered largely into the consideration of general merits. He begged to call the attention of the House to the situation in which the question had been placed by the great practical authorities who had addressed themselves to the government
402401Mr. Huskisson
358 was desirous of merely stating now, that the opinion noticed by the hon. gentleman, that the quantity of silk goods to be introduced from France by the proposed alterations of the law, would be precisely the quantity at present brought in by smuggling was no opinion
358Mr. Huskisson
366 could not help expressing the strong objection which he entertained against going into this inquiry at all. The case, so far as he could comprehend it, was, that the accused party had, without sufficient grounds, committed an individual for felony. Admitting that to be the fact—supposing, for argument's sake, the individual to have been actuated by vindictive motives—still, he contended, that this was not the place to institute a prosecution, or to seek for redress. If such a principle were allowed, parliament would be constantly applied to, instead of the courts of law. Every trespass, every trifling error, committed by a magistrate, however innocently, would be brought before parliament. He would ask, were they fit to exercise judicial functions in a case like this? Did it make any difference whether the accused party was a magistrate for Surrey, or one of the justices of the great session of Wales? Some of the acts alleged against him were neither perpetrated in his magisterial nor judicial capacity. The House, it seemed, was called on to exercise its judgment, not merely on any thing improper that might appear after judicial inquiry, but they were asked to go further, and to look into any act of
366Mr. W. Lamb
 felt very strongly the observations of his hon. friend; and, if this had been an original motion, perhaps he would have acceded to his view of the case. But, as the inquiry had been already entertained, he thought there would be considerable difficulty in stopping where they were.Mr. Peel
365 said, he had no objection to that course, but as the matter was before
365Mr. Peel
400 said, it had been observed, that, because the men now in difficulties were merchants, they deserved every assistance that could be afforded them. Now he was not convinced of the justice of that argument. He did not see why, because men expended their capital in the purchase of goods, they were therefore entitled to relief in a greater degree than any other men who expended their capital in a different manner. It had been said, that it was the duty of the government to afford relief to them, but he thought that the cause of the distress should be first inquired into; if that distress bad arisen from the act of the go-
400Mr. W. Smith
393 observed, that liberality appeared to be the order of the day; the ministers had adopted a liberal policy, and their adherents were determined not to be behind-hand with them, for they were liberal also; but their liberality was in the abuse of ministers, whose policy did not suit their narrow views. Every body was now liberal in turn. Even the gentlemen on the ministerial benches had been liberal on many occasions; but on none had they been more so than in their censures on ministers for their conduct in the present crisis. So far from having any objection to this, he was delighted to see it, and he would encourage the hon. member for Grampound to go and tear the ministers to pieces [a laugh]
393Sir F. Blake
392391 said, that his vote of the preceding night must have sufficiently testified his approbation of the principle of this measure. But, allowing that it, and the other proposal in respect to the banking establishments, would produce a good effect, as he thought they certainly would do, he did not believe they would place the banking system of the country, as a right hon. gentleman seemed to have insinuated, on a permanent and secure footing. He thought people would greatly delude themselves who should permit government to persuade them, that these two plans would do what government said they would do. Seeing what effects the conduct of the Bank of England had always produced on our commercial system at all seasons of similar distress, he confessed his firm conviction that such security as was desired for the future, was and would be unattainable, until their exclusive and mischievous privileges should have been finally got rid of. He knew that this was not a subject well adapted for desultory discussion j but even those hon. gentlemen who were most opposed in opinion upon questions of a nature like that now under consideration, were agreed as to the great extent of the mischief that had resulted from the conduct of the Bank during the past year. In the years 1783, 1793, and 1797, the course which it had pursued, had been precisely the same as in these days: namely, it had gone on in a course of over-issues. And the evil of our banking system, generally speaking, had been, that when it should have been most cautious and sparing of its circulation, it had been most lavish of it; and when commercial embarrassments required that it should be most liberal of its paper, it had been most careful to withhold it. He was satisfied that, until the extensive privileges of the Bank of England were got rid of, in the city of London, as well as throughout the country, there would remain a power of doing mischief, and of increasing the malady under which the pecuniary resources of the empire seemed to labour, that would be acted upon. To the mode in which the gentlemen who conducted the affairs of the Bank of England endeavoured to discharge their duty, and to the correctness and integrity of their motives, he gave every credit. But, seeing that this company, which consisted of an amazingly numerous body of proprietors, had the power of issuing paper to an enormous extent,
392391Sir Henry Parnell
 thanked ministers for the course they had taken respecting the currency. The most fallacious system which this country had ever acted upon was that of the small-note circulation. He descanted upon the evils which had arisen from it, in districts where bank-failures had taken place. It was shocking to witness, as he had done, such scenes of heart-rending distress.Sir John Brydges
 said, that his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade, would have attended, had he not been confined to his house by indisposition.Mr. C. Grant
418s. thought there would be but little security to the holders of Exchequer-bills, until the public were made better acquainted with the nature of the Bank transactions with government, and with their dealing in those bills, than they were at present. There were instances in which the Bank had gone into the market and made purchases, so as to raise the value of those bills 20418s.Mr. Maberly
412 said, he must continue to oppose this bill. It had been said, that it was unusual to oppose the bringing in of a bill. So it might be, were it a new measure; but this was the identical bill which they had already, year after year, rejected. Why, therefore, allow their time to be further taken up with unavailing discussion? It was a waste of time to permit the preliminary stages of a bill, which they knew would, on the second reading, be rejected. If ministers chose to adopt the measure, and rest it on their own responsibility, then they ought to permit the bill to be brought in; but,
412Mr. R. Gordon
 was decidedly opposed to the bill, because he thought it impossible to calculate the effect which it might have upon the landed interest. His objection was, however, principally to the time of introducing the measure; and it was an additional instance of the reckless spirit of experiment which prevailed, and which had entailed already so much mischief on the community.Mr. Wodehouse
 said, he would suggest a mode by which the objections of the country gentlemen to the repeal of these laws might be obviated. If they were so enamoured of the usury laws, as to prefer granting annuities at a most extravagant rate, to the borrowing of money on reasonable terms, let a clause be introduced into the bill, excluding the country gentlemen from its operation. If they were so desirous of raising money on annuities, at 15 per cent, rather than borrow at a little more than 5 per cent, let them be permitted to do so.Colonel Davies
414l.l. gave his entire support to the proposed bill; and, in doing so, he felt that, instead of injuriously interfering with the landed interest, he was conferring a boon upon that body. He had known many instances of the bad effect of the usury laws, and particularly one about ten years ago, when a person, possessing a large landed property, had a mortgage which was standing for thirty years. The security was for 40,000414l.l.Mr. Wynn
l.415in limine. said, that when government itself gave 6 or 7 per cent for money, it was not surprising if private individuals sometimes found it difficult to borrow at 5 per cent. With respect to the proposed bill, if ministers would take upon themselves the responsibility of supporting it, he would not oppose its introduction; but, if it was to be considered merely as the measure of an individual, teazing the House with the discussion, session after session, then he would undoubtedly oppose it l.415in limine.Mr. Calcraft
416 said, that as he was not present at the commencement of the discussion, he was but imperfectly qualified, if qualified under any circumstances, to give an opinion upon the measure. That it was one which was entitled to serious consideration, he readily acknowledged; and all must feel that the manner in which it had been disposed of last session afforded no satisfactory proof of the sense of the House upon it. His right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, had been too much engaged on important matters connected with the state of the country, to allow him to give the subject that attention which it required. He hoped, therefore, that the learned gentleman would postpone the measure for a short period, in order allow his right hon. friend time for its consideration. On the
416Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he would withdraw his opposition to the introduction of the measure.Mr. Calcraft
 rose for the purpose of putting a question to the attorney-general. It was in the recollection of the House, that towards the close of the last session, the learned gentleman introduced a bill, which was subsequently passed, for the purpose of repealing the act commonly called the "Bubble Act." At that time it was intimated, that a measure would be introduced by a learned lord in the other House, which would strike at the root of fraudulent transactions in the formation of companies. The question which he wished to ask was, whether it was in the contemplation of his majesty's ministers, or the law officers of the Crown, to introduce any such measure in the present session? There was a very uneasy sensation on the subject of the fraudulent transactions of the last year, and fears were entertained that similar attempts might again be made. He, therefore, was anxious to know whether any measure would be introduced, by which, if the public did not receive indemnity for the past, they might at least have security for the future.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he was not aware that any such measure was in contemplation, nor did he think it was at alt necessary. As the law now stood, it was sufficient to reach any fraudulent attempts, by any number of persons forming themselves into illegal companies. If the fact of any fraudulent attempts could be proved against any individuals, the law as it stood, was sufficient to reach and punish them, without the aid of any new enactment.The Attorney-General
l. was of opinion, that if any plan was attempted for relieving the present distress which should cause the exchanges to turn against us, the distress would be very considerably aggravated. The government were placed in a very difficult situation. It must be recollected that they had already a debt of 30,000,000l.Mr. Maberly
 said, he was astonished to hear an hon. member declare that the ministers had treated this momentous subject with levity. There was one consolation in the midst of all their difficulties, namely, that even the gentlemen who habitually opposed the government, had clone justice to the feelings of his right hon. friend the chancellor of the Exchequer; and he was persuaded that no man, who investigated the subject dispassionately, could doubt, that, if the government had acted erroneously, it at least proceeded from a strong desire to render that assistance which their feelings prompted them to render, but which their public station prevented them from carrying into execution. They were assailed on all sides by devices and projects for relieving the public distresses. The hon. member for Bristol had said, that the ministers ought not to adhere to principles; but he could assure that hon. member, that if ministers had hearkened to the various counsels offered them, there was nothing in principles or morals from which they must not depart, or a single principle of policy which they must not have subverted. With respect to the effect of issuing Exchequer-bills, it appeared to him to be of little importance to the public how the Bank notes found their way into the market, so that they secured an adequate circulating medium.Mr. C. Grant
 was desirous that justice should be done to all parties, and particularly to the government, for their conduct in the recent transact ions. Though there might be a difference of opinion as to the merits of many of the measures proposed by government, he thought that there could be no difference of opinion upon this point—that ministers had evinced every anxiety to administer relief to the existing distress. He was of opinion, that from their past conduct the country might be confident that ministers would set their shoulders to the wheel to rescue the country from its present unfortunate situation. He thought, however, that the system of Government was too expensive, and that it was the duty of parliament to make them diminish it.Mr. Hutchinson
423 said, that one observation had fallen from an hon. friend of his, which he fell it necessary to notice. His hon. friend had stated, that the government had received lightly the representations of distress which had been made to it. Now, he was sure that no solicitations had ever been received with greater attention than those which had recently been made to government; and if the noble lord at the head of the Treasury, and the chancellor of the Exchequer had not complied with the requests made to them, it was not without giving to them a full and patient examination, nor without being convinced that they ought not, for public reasons, to be acceded to. His hon. friend had given it as his opinion, that the large purchase of Exchequer-bills, which had taken place
423Mr. Herries
 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal the Usury Laws. After the repeated explanations he had given, upon former occasions, of his views upon this subject, it would be unpardonable were he now to occupy the time of the House in stating, he said, the reasons upon which his proposed plan was formed. He must, however, express his very sincere regret, that the House rejected his bill last session, because he was certain that, if they had allowed it to pass into a law, the late panic and its attendant distress, would have been much mitigated, and, in some of the great manufacturing districts, many difficulties would have been removed which were now severely felt. He could prove that, in many instances, more than 100 per cent had been given for money in the city of London, notwithstanding the operation of the usury laws. It was said on a former occasion, that his bill would injure the landed interest. He denied that this would be its effect; on the contrary, it would materially serve that important class. He concluded by moving for leave to bring in a bill "to repeal the laws which prohibit the taking of interest for money, or limit the rate thereof."Mr. Serjeant Onslow
in limine.411 thought that his learned friend
in limine.411Mr. Sykes
 renewed his opposition to the measure, and would continue to resist it so long as he had a seat in that House. He saw no necessity for giving leave, year after year, to bring in a bill, which, in a future stage, they were determined to reject. His opposition was not out of discourtesy to the learned Serjeant, but to shorten the journey of this bill. His firm belief was, that nothing could be devised more mischievous for the landed interest than the proposed measure. It would necessarily disturb the whole mortgage system, affecting the property of the kingdom, and substitute a wild theory in the room of practical experience. He called upon the government to take a part in stopping the eagerness for introducing such bills, and to look to themselves in time, before a perseverance in error brought ruin upon the country.Mr. Davenport
410 was glad that the bill was thus early opposed. It was most extraordinary, that ministers should be absent from the House when such a discussion was coming on. The bill could not be a matter of indifference to them, with re-
410Mr. Bright
l. thought ministers should have directed more of their attention to the condition of the country in 1793. If they had compared it with the present, they would have seen that the two were nearly similar; they would also have seen that the remedy adopted by government at that period had had a considerable effect in relieving the distress. Why, then, should not they have recourse to the same means of averting the evil? If the issue of Exchequer-bills in 1793 had been productive of such beneficial effects, what was there to prevent a similar issue of them now from operating in the same way? The situation of the country was so peculiar, that it would afford an ample justification to government for deviating a little from any stern principle which they might have formed for the guidance of their proceedings on ordinary occasions. It was absolutely necessary that some plan should be devised for supplying the provinces with a circulating medium. If 300,000l.Mr. Bright
 observed, that it was often necessary for those who were in want of money to borrow it at an extravagant rate, purely in consequence of these usury laws. By the repeal of those laws, the security for fair and liberal dealing in the transactions of borrowing and lending would be much increased. Persons of the most honourable characters would not then be deterred from coming into the market as lenders, and in this the borrowers would find their advantage. The proposed measure should have his cordial support.Mr. Benett
l. alluded to the purchase of Exchequer-bills by the Bank, and contended that the directors were justified in those purchases. If the circulating medium was not sufficient for the wants of the country, no injury was done by the purchase of those bills. If it was too much, why should not the Bank sell? The object of mercantile men was to procure discounts for short periods, and it was of little consequence to them whether those discounts were afforded them from an issue of Exchequer-bills, or a deposit of bullion. If the Bank had the means of purchasing Exchequer-bills, he saw no reason why they should be prevented. The events which had taken place had, in many parts of the country, left the people without any means of barter. If government would send down 3 or 400,000l.Mr. Irving
 said, he should wish to know, if Exchequer-bills were not issued, how the Bank of England were to give a sufficient supply of notes? Perhaps it would be answered, by discounting mercantile bills; but it was not at all times that these discounts were required. In December and January last there was a considerable portion of mercantile bills presented to the Bank to be discounted; but of late there had been so little trade, that, comparatively speaking, few discounts were wanted. In his opinion, the buying and selling of stock contributed much more to the fluctuations in the value of property than any traffic in Exchequer-bills. He considered that the best and most convenient issue of the Bank rested on Exchequer-bills. They afforded a much more regular and certain channel through which Bank issues might be supplied than any other. He was sorry that ministers had treated so lightly the application which had been made to them; for ultimately they would be compelled to have recourse to the measure suggested. The salvation of the country depended upon it. It had been urged, that the refusal was necessary to check further speculations. This, in the present situation of the country, was an objection too frivolous to require an answer.Mr. Irving
 said, that the bill would not have the injurious effect which some gentlemen apprehended. On the contrary, had it been in operation during the late crisis, the sacrifices made by individuals would have been much lighter than they unfortunately had been; and the House would not have heard of such enormous sums lost in the attempt to maintain the credit of individuals. He, for one, thought that in place of the present crisis affecting the introduction of such a bill, it was rather in favour of its justice and policy. At the same time he was ready to admit that there were a variety of considerations to be well weighed before it passed into a law. He certainly was prepared to vote for bringing in of the measure, and having it amply debated; the House would not take a stand against it in that early stage.Mr. Irving
413 adverted to instances in which money might have been borrowed at little more than 5 per cent, but the law opposing this, the parties were reduced to the necessity of raising money by the sale of their goods, at a ruinously low rate. This would be a common occurrence, as long as these absurd laws remained upon the statute-book. He agreed, however, that the landed and trading portions of the community stood in different situations, and that the repeal of the usury laws might affect the one interest, in a different manner from that in which it would operate on the other. Money on mortgages was borrowed for a length of time; but a tradesman might want a loan for two months, and for that loan it might be worth his while to give a high consideration. The borrowers and lenders in these cases had different objects; and why should they have one measure for credit and security. If money could be raised at 5 per cent on the best landed security, how could those, who had only personal security to offer, expect to raise money
413Mr. Monck
 said, it was the duty of the Bank to be cautious how they interfered with prices; and, as to Exchequer-bills, they ought not to deal in them, unless there was a necessity; but, when that necessity arose, it was unbecoming the hon. member for Aberdeen to make repeated attacks on the Bank. These were times when men ought rather to endeavour to remove impressions which affected public confidence than encourage them. An advance of money must come sooner or later from the government, and the sooner the better. He was sorry that ministers had not been prevailed upon to listen to the application that had been made to them; for he was sure that sooner or later the assistance applied for must be granted.Mr. Pearse
 said, that since the discussion of this bill last session, much light had been thrown upon the subject. The House was aware of the panic in the money market last December, and he could state, of his own personal knowledge, the enormous sum which had been paid for pecuniary loans. He knew an instance in which, for a very large sum, no less than 75 per cent had been paid. What good purpose could the usury laws serve, when, in spite of those laws, money was, in cases of necessity, raised at such an immoderate rate. He thought the learned serjeant deserved the thanks of the country for his perseverance in this most important measure.Mr. John Smith
s.s. begged to ask, whether it was the intention of government to leave the Bank to make purchases of these Exchequer-bills, as they had hitherto done; and whether they were, at one time, by a great over-issue, and, at another, by restraining that issue, to put at hazard the property of Englishmen, whenever they thought fit? If men had been guilty of some of the mad speculations and improvident sacrifices attributed to them, let them take their fate; but let not: the innocent be confounded with the guilty. It would require strong proofs to satisfy the minds of the public, that the Bank of England had not, by purchasing immense quantities of Exchequer-bills at one time, and issuing them out in equally immense quantities at another, aggravated the late unfortunate panic. He had strong objections to a power remaining in the hands of any set of men to raise and sink the market at their pleasure, from five to ten per cent. Every country banker, too, should be compelled, four times in the year, to furnish an account of all his issues in the preceding quarter. Such a proceeding would, in some measure, be a check upon the over-issue which had been the subject of complaint. They ought also to know the amount of all the Exchequer-bills which had been purchased by the Bank of England, that they might discover, if possible, the reason why Exchequer-bills had been, at one time, at from 35s.s.Mr. Hume
420l. said, he had not blamed the Bank for what they had done. What he had complained of was, that the Bank had the power at will of raising the value of every man's property, by dealing in Exchequer-bills; and he had made the observation that the House might be able to ascertain the extent of the dealings of the Bank, and their effect on prices. It was no assertion of his, but a general opinion in the city, that, during the recent distress, the interference of the Bank in the money market had produced a very sensible effect; and, until the necessary infomation was laid before the House, he must abstain from giving praise where he was not sure it was due. Indeed, he feared there had been much irregularity in the dealings of the Bank. It had been very justly observed by the late director, Mr. Ricardo, that it was the duty of the Bank Directors to make the best bargain they could with the government for the proprietors. The evils caused by the fluctuation in the value of Exchequer-bills, should be ascribed to the government, and not to the Bank. If the government had no debt, there would be no need of Exchequer-bills. It was owing to this, that the right hon. gentleman, though he admitted the present disastrous situation of the country, did not dare to sanction the issuing of even 500,000420l.Mr. Hume
421l. said, that when it was considered that the Bank had 18,000,000421l.Mr. Hume
422 was of opinion, that an issue of Exchequer-bills by government, would have proved more beneficial than any relief which could be granted by the Bank. It had been observed, that the Bank should be liberal in their discounts; but the parties to whom the Bank were in
422Mr. T. Wilson
 commended the conduct of government. Their principles of free trade particularly entitled them to the thanks of the country, and he hoped they would not, by any complaints or representations, be induced to depart from them.Sir F. Blake
434433 said, he was disposed to give the right hon. baronet every information in his power. With respect to the bankrupt laws, he had consulted with the courts in Ireland, with the Lord
434433Mr. Plunkett
435 said, he wished to make a few observations on that part of the right hon. and learned gentleman's speech wherein he informed the House that he purposed conferring a great boon on Ireland, by extending the statute recently passed for amending the bankrupt laws here to that country. Now, he did not mean to say that that statute might not contain some useful provisions, but he believed those who praised it most were the members of the profession to which he had the honour to belong, and who had most profited by it. It had also been much lauded, and for a similar reason by the commissioners of bankrupts; but he felt it his duty to say, that he considered this enactment much more calculated to cause useless expense than to promote the interests of those who might have the misfortune to come under its operation; indeed he was somewhat surprised that no notice had as yet been given of bringing in a bill to remedy the defects which had been found to exist in that statute. He did not consider the objection which had been raised by the right hon. and learned gentleman to in-
435Mr. Abercromby
436 said, that the learned gentleman laboured under a mistake in supposing that his right hon. friend, the Attorneys-general for Ireland, had expressed an opinion, that it was impossible to introduce into Ireland a measure of a similar tendency to that which he had the honour of submitting to parliament last session. Nothing would give him more pain than to find that that measure could not be applied to Ireland. Even something more beneficial might be done, than merely to consolidate the laws. Since he had entered the House, he had received from an hon. friend near him a remonstrance as to the operation of the bill, which gave him much satisfaction. His hon. friend had complained, that, such was the unfortunate operation of the measure, he had been actually summoned to serve on two special juries. Now, he was rejoiced to find, that in the working of this bill, all men, without distinction, were compelled to perform their duties to the public; and in this summons he found some information which might be usefully applied to Ireland; namely, that the parties would be fined for non-attendance, unless they made a reasonable excuse, and that the judges would be in court at ten o'clock. It would be well that the bill for Ireland should not follow too closely on the heels of the other; for, in the connecting of a bill which repealed seventy or eighty acts, imperfections would creep in, which, perhaps, one or two assizes would point out. The hon. baronet opposite had made some allusions to the appointment of lords lieutenants to counties in Ireland. Nothing, certainly, could be better in principle, than that there should be gradations between the chief magistrate and the most subordinate authorities. But then the amount of the benefit must depend on the manner in which the duties of the office should be executed. It might be made the greatest curse in individual counties; and he feared it would not be easy to find resident lords lieute-
436Mr. Secretary Peel
 disclaimed the idea of having said, that there was any inclination on his part not to extend the provisions of the jury-bill to Ireland, when a fit opportunity should arise. All he had said was, that the machinery of the bill, in its present state, was inapplicable to Ireland; but that, when experience had proved its utility, he should rejoice to see it adopted.Mr. Plunkett
437 quite concurred with his hon. friend, that the attention of members ought to be directed to the condition of the poor of Ireland. He, of course, did not mean to suggest any plan—certainly not the poor laws of England, at least not as they were abused. Such was the condition of the peasantry of Ireland, in the south and western parts, as to call for the immediate attention of parliament. He had witnessed a greater degree of misery and
437Mr. Hutchinson
443 said, it was to very little purpose that any legal remedy existed in Ireland against the exactions of the customs gatherers, as the poor could not resort to it, for obvious reasons, and the poor were the only sufferers by such exactions. He remembered an instance at Mary borough, where a double illegality had been practised; in the first place, the article taxed was exempted from toll; and in the second, the party levying the tax had no authority to do so. In Ireland, unfortunately, there was no "village Hampden" to step forward and obtain redress for the injured peasant. What was most provoking of all, however, was, that the money derived from tolls was not
443Sir H. Parell
 said, that the hon. mover had not produced a single instance in which the laws, when put into operation, had failed to effect the desired remedy. If he had even done this, it would have amounted to a good ground for making some alteration in the law; but it would not amount to a reason for appointing a commission. The labours of such a commission would be infinite. Surely the hon. mover's ideas could never go to the extent of imagining, that a compensation should be given to persons for the value of the tolls which he wished to regulate or suppress. If that principle were adopted, it ought also to be applied to this country. If a commission were appointed for Ireland, it ought also to extend its labours to England; for an equal ground of investigation extended to both countries. The extent of the present proposition went to this absurd length, that this country was to be taxed for removing that evil from Ireland which was to be continued upon herself. If a commission were to be appointed for Ireland, he did not see why the inquiry ought not to be extended to the duke of Bedford's tolls in Covent-Garden. Every possible facility ought to be given to inquire into the legality of the tolls exacted, and to resist the imposition of them, if illegal. If the Statutes were defective, they might be improved; but he could not consent to supersede the ordinary operation of the law, by the appointment of a commission, the duties of which would be endless.Mr. Secretary Peel
446l.l.The little tyrant of his field withstood,""Village Hampden, that with dauntless breast445 wished briefly to explain to the House, the nature and degree of the resistance which he meant to offer to the hon. mover Whether that hon. gentleman's opinions of the extent of the evil, were well founded, he had great reasons to doubt. From his official situation, all complaints, if they were material, would naturally meet his ear; but the complaints which had been made that evening to the House, had previously been unknown to him. If the tolls levied in the Irish markets were, as had been stated, so excessive as to amount to 5 per cent on the articles sold, it would amount, not only to a grievous tax upon the poor, but to a most mischievous imposition on the country gentlemen, out of whose pockets this money must eventually come; and, for their own sakes, they would never tamely do it. He did not believe the statements as to the extent of
446l.l.The little tyrant of his field withstood,""Village Hampden, that with dauntless breast445Mr. Plunkett
447 agreed, that the consideration of buying up these tolls would be stopped in limine by the immense amount of the purchase money. If the Attorney-general for Ireland were really so ignorant as he stated himself to be, of the evils complained of, it only proved that the poverty and misery of the poor Irish were so extreme, that their grievances had not reached the government. The impositions complained of, were levied in despite of the statute and common law. He had never been in any town of Ireland, in which he had not heard of numerous instances of oppression, committed in open and insolent violation of the law. He begged to deprecate the remedy proposed by his right hon. friend, who found the existing laws sufficient, and recommended recourse being had to the attorney of the hamlet. There was nothing he deprecated more than this. He would rather leave the people subject to the toll, than put them into the hands of the attorney. Too many of the evils of Ireland arose from the injudicious advice which gentlemen of that profession gave to both sides. His countrymen, much as they loved litigation, had discretion enough never to go to law with corporate bodies and toll-gatherers. The remedy at law, of which so much had been said, was not available to the people. He knew cases in which tolls were levied, contrary to law. There were laws to exempt linen from every species of toll; and the trustees of the linen board knew that in the south and west of Ireland tolls were levied on articles employed in the manufacture of linen. What was worse still, the power of levying tolls was exercised to promote frauds. It had been proved before him, as a magistrate, that a toll gatherer asserting his right to examine articles, had, under the influence of a bribe, allowed bad articles to pass, and thus assisted to impose on the public. This instance of flagrant abuse shewed how incompetent individuals must be to resist improper charges. The extent of the grievance, and the impossibility of
447Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 remarked, that the proposed inquiry would last for ever, if they examined every man who paid toll in Ireland, as a custom was placed on all articles sold at fairs. He did not think that there was any ground of complaint, as the matter was managed very regularly, the toll-levier being obliged to furnish receipts for the tolls he took. If he was guilty of exaction, the subject might be investigated at the sessions, where the patent was rigorously examined; and there was also an appeal from the sessions to the judge in circuit. He had observed that commissions of inquiry into Irish matters were very excellent things. If there was to be one appointed on the present occasion, he was sure it would be a never-ending one. He had had forty-three years' experience, and he therefore hoped that he should be made one of the commissioners, being very sure that it would turn out to be a very good thing. The tolls of Ireland were a disease, but a cure was often worse than the disease itself. Gentlemen might judge of the expense of such a commission, when they reflected on the expenses of the witnesses who had come from Ireland to give their evidence before the committee into the state of Ireland. He had lived long enough to hear of many such commissions. He had heard when each of them had begun, but he seldom heard when they ended. They were generally very snug things. He should like to be appointed to one; and he hoped he had put in his claim in time [a laugh].Mr. Denis Browne
 denied, that there was in Ireland one law for the rich and another for the poor. Such a statement going forth to the public uncontradicted, would do a great deal of mischief.Sir John Bridges
442l.441440 said, that the hon. gentleman was under a misapprehension as to an intention on the part of government to protect or support any abuses in the collection of the toils or customs of Ireland. On the contrary, if extensive evils did exist, and he would not deny that there were some, government would be disposed to remedy them. Indeed, he had assured the hon. gentleman, at the commencement of the session, when he was apprized of his intention to make this motion, that the subject had not escaped the notice of the Irish government, and that he was unwilling to preclude any inquiry that might lead to practical benefit. At the same time, the subject was surrounded with difficulty. There were in Ireland, as there were in this country, many markets and towns invested by royal prerogative, with a right of levying certain tolls and duties. Now, that was a right with which the legislature ought to be cautious in interfering. Wherever duties, even moderate duties, were levied, it could not be denied, that those duties operated as a tax upon the commodities of whatever town or market these commodities were brought into to be disposed of. So far they
442l.441440Mr. Goulburn
428427 professed his readiness to give the information required by the noble lord, before he made any observation's upon the motion of the right hon. baronet. He would State generally the measures which his majesty's ministers intended to introduce in the course of the present session, arising out of the labours of last year's committee; and he would state them in the order of their notice by the committee. With respect to the mode of collecting tithes, it was not their intention to submit any distinct proposition; and for this reason—that the Tithe-composition bill had been, within the last year, brought into general operation in Ireland, and had produced effects not merely equal, but far surpassing his most sanguine anticipations. It was, therefore, intended to allow that measure to work on its due course, and remedy existing evils, and not to interfere with it, by any new measure. A year ago there had been effected only 259 tithe compositions; but, since the last session, he was happy to say, the number had increased to 676; being about one-fourth of all the parishes in the sister kingdom. The benefits of this measure were not confined to the parishes in which it was brought into action, but extended to their vicinity, and led to the extension of amicable compositions. One fact would show strongly the operation of the bill. The assistant barrister for the county of Cork had informed him that the business of his court had declined one-half, owing to the absence of tithe causes. The next measure in order, but he would revert to it last, was the mode of collecting and applying the church rates, and the constitution of vestries. Then followed the constitution and proceedings of the manorial courts. This subject had been under the consideration of the lord lieutenant, and a measure was about to be introduced, to correct the practices of
428427Mr. Goulburn
 said, that with regard to what had fallen from the last speaker, respecting the corporation of Gafway, he was ready to give it the most decided contradiction."Mr. Daly
 I do. I give it the most decided contradiction. The tolls are collected in Galway according to the strict letter of the law. The hon. gentleman says that I was defendant in a Chancery suit.Mr. Daly.
 proceeded. It had been said that he was defendant in a suit in Chancery, in which an illegal exaction of tolls was the question to be tried. It was not true. [A cry of "Order."] He begged pardon: he meant merely to say, that the statement was not correct, without intending any thing unparliamentary. He had, indeed, been made defendant in a suit, for the purpose of putting him to expense; but upon his making affidavit that he never, directly or indirectly, received a penny of the tolls that were the subject of litigation, he was discharged by the court from any further connection with the proceedings. This was not the first or second time he had been brought before the House in a similar manner. He could stand up in his place, and defy the hon. gentleman, or the world, to say that he ever received one farthing of the public money in any way. He could have no interest in the collection of tolls in Galway. He had, at present, a suit depending in Chancery, to determine whether he 'was free of the corporation or not; but with respect to an illegal exaction of tolls, he would stake his character that there was no such thing. Tolls, no doubt, were collected; but it was done according to law. The assistant barrister of Galway was a man of the highest honour, and was incapable of deciding in a way inconsistent with justice; and the right might be tried for a few shillings. How was it, then, that complaints of this nature did not come before the sessions? He did not mean to deny that the thing was a grievance; but, as long as the law permitted it, the toll would very naturally be taken.Mr. Daly
 was of opinion, that the statement of the Attorney-general for Ireland had been quite gratifying, and hoped the resolution would be withdrawn. There had certainly been some most extraordinary instances of abuse. The evil was one of great magnitude, and the cause of its continuance was the want of some active resident individuals, who would expose abuses when they were committed. What would be most advantageous for Ireland would be, to devise some plan for the education of the peasantry. He had last session had the honour of proposing a measure for this purpose to the House, and he had been happy to hear a noble lord in the other House approve of that measure. Hon. gentlemen ought to be friendly to any plan which went to render the lower classes in Ireland more intelligent, and thereby prevent their emigrating in such numbers to this country, as to create a serious addition to the poor-rates.Mr. Grattan
438 said, that every person examined on the subject of the poor-laws, as applied to Ireland, was favourable to the experiment. Mr. Nimmo had stated to the committee, that there were a million mendicants and sturdy beggars, who were wandering over the country, and who, when unable to obtain a living by the offerings of charity or the plunder they continued to carry off in their lawless wanderings, resorted to their poorer but more industrious relatives, and extorted from them a portion of their hard earnings. Great objections had been made to the introduction of the poor-laws into Ireland, from the evils they had led to in this country. But, whatever those evils might be, they had not originated so much in the system of the laws as from the mode in which they were administered. What had been the state of the poor in this
438Mr. Monck
 said, he woul4 give his cordial assent to the proposition of the Attorney-general for Ireland; and he had no doubt that the measure he announced would prove as beneficial as any which that learned person had conferred on Ireland. His assent to the introduction of the bill, however, by no means prevented his voting for the proposition of the right hon. baronet. He gave entire credit to the statements laid before the House by that right hon. baronet; and could confidently declare, that nothing would be more likely to create great dissatisfaction in Ireland than a rejection of the resolutions. They were, indeed, so closely connected with the measure of the Attorney-general for Ireland, that they might almost form the preamble of his bill. He did not think it advisable to introduce the poor-rates into Ireland, but he thought something ought to be done for the poor of that country, and that no person was so fit for introducing a measure of relief as the son of the lamented Henry Grattan, who used to say, that "every naked man was an armed host."Mr. R. Martin
 Do you?Mr. Martin.
s.s. felt himself called upon to declare, that in the county which he represented, atrocious abases prevailed in the collection of tolls. It was a general subject of complaint. They were gross in the town of Tuam; but in the town of Galway itself, they were greatest of all. There never was any thing equal to the atrocity of the abuses there in the mode of collecting tolls. In proof of this statement, he might appeal to his colleague (Mr. Daly). The abuses, too, were carried on by the corporation. These abuses existed to such a degree, that the value of land was reduced 3s.s.Mr. R. Martin
450 said, he put it to the House, whether he had charged the hon. member with receiving money. He had merely said, that illegal tolls were taken at Galway; and he said it without intending to
450Mr. Martin
 I do say so.Mr. Martin.
 I humbly and most penitentially ask pardon of you, Sir, if I am out of order. To the House I am ready to offer the most humble apology.Mr. Martin.
 after a few observations respecting the evils to which the present system of collecting Tolls and Customs in Ireland gave rise, moved for the purpose of remedying those evils, "That an humble address be presented to his majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to give directions that a commission should issue to inquire into the Tolls and Customs collected in Fairs, Markets, and Sea Ports in Ireland."Mr. Spring Rice,
 I trust the hon. member will not place me a second time in the disagreeable situation of calling him to order.The Speaker.
432 adverted to the reformation which had been made, under the present Irish government, with respect to
432Sir H. Parnell
 explained. His objections had reference to an attempt of some persons to place the control of the church-rate in a lay tribunal.Sir R. Inglis
s.sd.d.s.s.431dd.d.d.s.l.430l.l.s.l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.429l.l.l.l. began by stating that, the right hon. baronet had, in substance, produced the same cases, and repeated the same charges, which he brought forwards last session against the general system of the administration of the church-rates in Ireland. Though, at that time, he could not help doubting the inferences, he was not then prepared to deny, or even to explain, the facts upon which the right hon. baronet raised them. Since that period, he had examined the returns before the House; even now, however, he would not follow the right hon. baronet in all the details of the cases which he had brought forward; but, before he sat down, he would, with the indulgence of the House, call their attention to some of them. He would begin, indeed, in the first place, by admitting, that there were considerable irregularities, perhaps even a violation of the law in its strict letter, in the expenditure of the church-rates in. Ireland; but this admission would not benefit the argument of the right hon. baronet, if the nature of the irregularities in question were regarded. He would quote from the documents on the table of the House, and particularly from the returns of the northern and more Protestant dioceses; he would begin with Derry, and, in that diocese, with the parish of Moville; there in one year the cess was 46s.sd.d.s.s.431dd.d.d.s.l.430l.l.s.l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.429l.l.l.l.Sir R. H. Inglis
444 said, that the present state of the law was inadequate to afford redress to those whom it was meant to protect. Who were the parties in the present question? Who were the oppressed, and what the condition of the oppressor? The toll rights were in the hands either of corporate bodies, or of rich and powerful individuals. To tell the poor of Ireland that, to obtain redress, it was necessary for them to enter into a legal contest with corporate bodies, or with wealthy individuals, was to tell them, that they had no remedy at all. The cost of contest would be ruinous to the peasant; but it would be contemptible to the other party. He knew cases in Ireland where illegal impositions were enforced upon the poor,
444Sir J. Newport
 explained. He did not say that there was one law for the rich and another for the poor; but he had said, that when the law was so expensive that its remedies could not be obtained by the poor, it was the same as if the law had no existence. There was not one law for the rich and another for the poor; but in practice, though not in statutory regulation, the poor could not avail themselves of the law.Sir John Newport
439 in reply, observed, that his object was to get the resolutions placed on the Journals. Within the last few years, he had over and over again been opposed on various questions by ministers; and, though his recommendation had been slighted, or wholly disregarded, yet, by getting his resolutions placed on the Journals, he had often had the satisfaction of seeing measures which had been contemptuously rejected in one year, adopted the very next. With the hope of a similar result, he would now press his motion. He denied the imputations thrown out against him by the hon. member for Dundalk, of either acting from sinister motives, or of having selected particular cases. He had no hostility to the Established Church; his ob-
439Sir John Newport
l.l.l.l.l.425l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.424 rose, in pursuance of notice, to propose a series of resolutions regarding the levy of Church-rates in Ireland. It was in the recollection of the House, that he had last year called their attention to the manner in which the Irish parochial rates were collected, and to the abuses which, in every part of their details, were so apparent. Having been on that occasion so fortunate as to obtain almost the unanimous assent of the House to the bill which he had introduced, he was afterwards much surprised to find, that, in another House, the principal clauses were struck out which regulated the adequate control of the local expenditure.l.l.l.l.l.425l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.424Sir John Newport
426 was anxious, before the subject was further discussed, to obtain
426Lord Althorp
 thought the better way would be to confine the committee to receiving the evidence. The House was aware that a judge was independent of the Crown, and could be removed only on an address from parliament. It was possible that the House might, in this instance, have to discharge that important duty. He merely supposed the possibility of such a contingency. Was it not, then, better that the House should have all the facts laid before it, and, on a full revision of the case, adopt such measures as were best calculated to answer the ends of justice?Mr. Secretary Peel
503 said, he could not discover in what way this particular charge was connected with Mr. Kenrick's public character, or judicial duties. In the former inquiry, there was at least an allegation that Mr. Kenrick, as a magistrate, had been guilty of a denial of justice; a public wrong was thus done, and a private injury sustained. When, however, the House was now told, that it was its solemn duty to watch over
503The Hon. William Lamb
504 seconded the amendment. AH he knew of the case had been gathered from the votes. He was quite at a loss as to the capacity in which Mr. Kenrick was charged. In the accusation he was spoken of, indeed, as a magistrate and a Welch judge. But, pf what had he been guilty in those characters?
504Colonel Wood
 wished to state the reason why he should support the original motion. If the case were entirely a new one, and now brought forward for the first time, he should, as he had said on a former night, feel very much disposed to concur in opinion with his hon. friend, that the proceeding was inexpedient. But, he could not come to that conclusion now. They had permitted the charge to lie on their table. They had so far committed themselves for inquiry; and the learned gentleman had consented to postpone that inquiry, at his suggestion, from the last session, without the least hint given to him, that there was any intention to mar his proceeding in a later stage. In candour, therefore, he could not now interpose an obstacle, however impressed he might be with the injurious tendency of the precedent. He did not, however, see that this was exactly a private or domestic transaction, with which it was clearly beyond their province to interfere. No doubt the learned gentleman meant to impute malice to Mr. Kenrick in Franks case, and in the discharge of his public duty. Beset as he felt the proceeding was with dangers and difficulties, still he could not refuse his assent, under the circumstances in which he was placed, to the learned gentleman's motion.Mr. Secretary Peel
 saw no substantial difference between the two courses. The result, in either case, would, in his opinion, be the same; nor did he think that the accused party would be aggrieved by adopting the course suggested by his learned friend. Any case having reference to the administration of justice could not be inquired into with too much exactness. It ought to be thoroughly sifted; for if the opinions which had been broached were to be acted upon, namely, that the House was not authorised to inquire into the conduct of a judge, it would be deprived of one of its most wholesome and important functions.Mr. Abercromby
 said, that as far as he understood the charge, it did not at all imply malice. It alleged that Mr. Kenrick had preferred an accusation against Franks without sufficient proof; yet it went on to state, that the proof was so sufficient as to induce a magistrate to commit, and a grand jury to find a true bill. Thus, then, it was evident, that the only tangible accusation against Mr. Kenrick was for publishing a libel; but he had not published it, either in his character of a magistrate or a judge. If, indeed, the House had already committed itself on the subject, he should not feel himself at liberty to vote against proceeding further with the inquiry; but it seemed to him, that it was only to investigate the moral character of an individual, and that the precedent about to be established was full of danger.Mr. S. Bourne
509 said, he did not know any thing of the merits of the case; but whenever a matter affecting the conduct of a judge came before them, he thought it was their duty to institute an inquiry. The doctrine held by hon. members who opposed this motion, would have the effect of shutting out the exercise of one of the most valuable of their functions. He thought it was not too much to say, that if an individual, by acts of his own, had given notoriety to certain parts of his conduct, and those parts were of such a character as that, after they became known, no minister would dare to recommend him to the Crown to fill the office of judge—it was not, he repeated, too much to say, that the same acts being committed by a person who already held the office of judge, the House was bound, by the act of Settlement, to make them the subject
509Mr. Abercromby
510 observed, that of all the questions which came under the consideration of that House, those which partook of a judicial character were the ques-
510Mr. Secretary Canning
511 said, he had just had a communication with Mr. Kenrick in the lobby, who had told him, that he was perfectly prepared to meet the charge preferred against him, but would cheerfully submit to any course the House might think proper. He entirely concurred in the sentiments of the hon. member for Yorkshire; there was one observation, however, in the speech of the learned member for Calne, on which he must make a single remark. That learned member had supposed, that Mr. Kenrick's magisterial character would influence the committing magistrate to commit the person against whom he preferred the charge, and would afterwards influence the grand jury to find the bill. Now, really he thought the learned member knew the law too well not to be aware that no committing magistrate would have dared so to act, liable as he would be to severe punishment for his conduct; and
511Mr. Denison
512 said, that if the hon. member for Hertford pressed his amendment to a division, he should vote for it. He could not concur with those gentlemen who thought that this charge was a necessary sequel of the charge of last session. They were quite distinct, and he thought it would be injustice to Mr. Kenrick for hon. members to allow their opinions on this case to be influenced by what took place on that occasion. The ground on which the case of last session went was, that if it could be proved that this gentleman had acted improperly in his character as a justice of the peace, that ought to be a reason why he should be considered unfit to fill the higher office of a judge. The transaction in the present case did not affect him in his public capacity, but had reference to him solely as a private individual, for which he was liable, if he were in fault, to be called to account before the ordinary tribunals of the country. The House should recollect, that whatever might be their decision on this case, it would not ultimately rest with them alone. The concurrence of the other House would be necessary; and suppose that concurrence could not be obtained, what a situation would they be placed in, and what would be the painful situation of this individual, thus allowed to remain with the deep stain on his character, which a resolution of the House against him might imply? Would it not be a much better course for the House to confine itself to cases where guilt had been proved by the ordinary tribunals? He did not mean to say that there were not cases in which the House would be called upon to interfere, before any inquiry by the courts of law; but these were extreme cases, and it was most desirable that the principle applying to them should not be extended. He could not at all concur in the observation of the learned member for Calne, that if the character of an individual were such as that no minister would recommend him as a judge, that therefore (he being already a judge) he should not be allowed to continue to fill that situation. A judge held his situation quamdiu bene se gesserit; but the reasons for which he might be removed were, in general, founded upon his con-duct as a judge. He did not say that
512Mr. Wynn
 then asked the learned counsel whether they meant to produce any other evidence?The Chairman
520 having replied in the negative, counsel were ordered to withdraw. The House resumed; the chairman reported progress; minutes of evidence were ordered to be printed; and
520Mr. Gurney
 said, the only mode the House had to determine why it was that the estimates of the present year exceeded those of the last, was by going into a committee of supply, in which his hon. friend (sir G. Clerk) would explain them, item by item. Although, for the last few years, he had felt it due to the public convenience to give as early an explanation as he could of the state of the finances of the country, yet he had never supposed the House would have been precluded from pursuing the usual course of going into a committee of supply for the purpose of inquiring whether the amount proposed ought to be voted. If the House were to abstain from investigating the estimates, item by item, until he had made his general statement of the finances of the country, it would be imposing on him a task which he should be unable to perform; for he must, in that case, take upon himself to explain the duties of his hon. friend near him, and of those other hon. friends who were engaged in the various public departments. It would be the most inconvenient course possible, and, in fact, was calculated to throw obstacles in the way of the views of the hon. member himself. If when the different items were explained to the committee by the head of the department to which they belonged, they were not explained in a satisfactory manner, the committee could reject them. The usual practice appeared to him to be at once the most convenient and the most salutary; and he therefore could not acquiesce in any proposal for departing from it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
523 contended, that it was the duty of the House to make the government reduce its establishments, in order to secure a reduction of taxation. It was possible, that when these estimates were produced, he should give them his support, for they related to a branch of the public service towards which he, is common with every man, was disposed to act liberally. He was anxious to support the navy upon every occasion, as it was
523Colonel Davies
 supported the amendment. The going into a committee upon the estimates without having an account of the financial state of the country, appeared to him to be as absurd as it would be for a gentleman to order a carriage and horses, without knowing what fortune he had to support it. Ministers acted as if they wished to pledge the House to support a certain amount of expenditure, without allowing it to judge of its means of meeting it.Mr. Hutchinson
525 observed, that whatever might be the distress of the country, he could see no reason why hon. gentlemen should set themselves in array against the forms of parliament, and should insist that business should be transacted in a different mode from that in which it had been transacted for ages. He believed that never, on any account, had there been any deviation from the course which government had proposed that night to take; that never, not merely since the Revolution, but before it, in the most turbulent times, had a vote been taken in objection to the Speaker's leaving the chair, when the purpose of it was to vote a supply in committee for the navy; and that never had such a demand been made upon any head of a department as that which had just been made on his hon. friend, to open his statement of the estimates before he went into the committee, where alone that statement could be productive of any practical result. The House went into a committee, in order that explanations might be asked and given of the different items in the estimates, without infringing upon the usual orders of the House; and the hon. member now asked, that for the first time these explanations should be given in the House itself; and because he had a speech within him, which he had declared his intention if provoked, to make, now called upon them to depart from their usual custom of voting each of the estimates separately in a committee. He would rather hear his speech now, and then go into the committee, than depart from the ancient and long-established practice of parliament. But, said another hon. gentleman, would it be right for a man to keep a house in town and another in the country, without
525Mr. Secretary Canning
 thought that government should ascertain the effect of the alteration in the currency before it proceeded to levy taxes on the country. He asked, whether the salaries of certain functionaries filling high public situations, had not been raised in the course of the last year; and if so, whether they would not be still further raised, in consequence of the alterations which were now making in a depreciated currency?Mr. C. F. Palmer
 rose to move the order of the day for the second reading of this bill. Before he did so, he wished to state to the House, that it was his intention, in the committee, to submit a proposition, not to the extent suggested by the hon. member for Newton (Mr. Hudson Gurney), which he thought went too far, but a modification of it. The proposition of the hon. member was, if he understood him right, that the circulation of small notes should be prohibited to the country banks, and yet the issue should be permanently allowed to the Bank of England. Now, this proposition would be very unjust to the country banks, and inconsistent with the whole principle of the measure. But, it had been represented to him, that a limitation of that proposition, so far from impeding the measure, would promote its success. It was his intention, therefore, to propose, that instead of prohibiting the Bank of England from issuing small notes dated subsequently to the 5th of February last, it should be left to them to issue such notes dated previous to the 10th of October next. The object of this proposition was, to give the country bankers facilities for preparing themselves for the effects of the bill, and the gradual withdrawal of their notes. It had been stated, that the greatest possible inconvenience would arise, if all the small notes were completely withdrawn at one moment. When the bill came into the committee, he should propose that there should be such a limitation as he had stated. He should, however, propose, that the notes of the Bank of England should be finally withdrawn, at the same time as those of the country banks.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
545l.544 said, he could not see the weight of the hon. gentleman's argument,
545l.544Mr. Cripps
547s.546 congratulated the right hon. gentlemen opposite on the new light which had broken in upon them. They now, it appeared, felt the force of the arguments which he and others had been in vain urging since the commencement of the session, in which they endeavoured to show the extreme impolicy of ministers, in crying down one species of currency, before they had another to substitute for it. And now, seeing that their measures could not be otherwise carried into effect, they had been driven to the expedient of supplying the place of the country notes with the small notes of the Bank of England. The mischievous nature of the
547s.546Mr. Calcraft
555 said, he did not rise at that late hour to enter into a discussion of all the topics brought under review in the speech of the right hon. gentleman, nor did he rise to state the grounds on which he should be prepared to show that the opposition he had offered to the measure recommended by the gentleman opposite, was not inconsistent with the measure he himself recommended, nor that it would, in any degree, tend to counteract its effects. But he was anxious to say a few words on what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman respecting the issues of the Bank. He was perfectly willing to take his share of all the blame, if blame there were, as to the conduct which the government had held towards the Bank. He admitted, that the proposal for taking the dead weight proceeded from the government. It was adopted by the Bank, at the suggestion of the government; and if there was any blame belonging to that measure, that blame belonged to the government. But, the government had nothing to do with the Bank keeping those annuities. It might sell them; and that it had not chosen to do so, was entirely its own proceeding. With respect to the issues of the Bank, to enable the government to pay off the four per cent in October, 1824, that measure was proposed by the government, and for it the government alone was responsible. As to the other measures mentioned by the right hon. gentleman, he was bound to say, for it was the truth, that the government was in no degree responsible or to blame. As to the Bank lending money on stock, and thus increasing its issues, he would only say, that so far from its having been adopted at the suggestion of the government, government never knew of the measure being adopted until after it had ceased, and could not, therefore, be charged with participating in it. As to lending money on mortgage also, the government was not responsible for that step. He would say for himself, that he never heard such a measure was in agitation, until the Bank had told him it was done. For that also the government could not be responsible; whatever in-
555The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he would not divide the House, because from the declaration of the chancellor of the Exchequer, he did not think he was opposed to the principle of the measure recommended.Mr. Ellice
538 asked, what great relief was to be afforded by this- alteration, and Whether it was not, in fact, an abandon-
538Mr. Ellice
—I never used the word impeach. I said arraign.Mr. Ellice.
l.s.552Why, when it prospers, 'tis no longer treason.""Treason does never prosper—what's the reason?551l.550549548 begged leave to assure the House, that though he had hitherto carefully abstained from taking a part in these discussions, it was not because he was insensible of their value, or indifferent to their results. On the contrary, he had uniformly felt the greatest anxiety to hear all that had been said on the occasion. He could assure the House, that during the course of a long parliamentary experience, he had never listened with more patience to the agitation of any great question than he had done to this; and never did he recollect one in which party feeling had so entirely given way to the calm and deliberate consideration of the imperative interests of the country. He gave at the outset his cordial assent to the principle upon which the contemplated measures of ministers were founded; namely, a speedy return to a metallic circulation. He knew it to be a sound principle: he thought the government were serious, and knew what they were about respecting it: indeed, he admired them for the apparent stoutness with which they had brought forward the measure. But, what was the case now? The ministers had no sooner announced their plan, accompanied by a firm declaration of its inviolability, than they came forward with a new proposition, which, mitigate as they would, was a material abandonment of the principle with which they had set out. Throughout the whole of these proceedings, indeed, he had witnessed the strangest indecision, and wandering from one point to another in their course—at one time exhibiting more firmness than the occasion required, and at another time the most compromising distrust. The chancellor of the Exchequer and the first lord of the Treasury had set out with what he would not call their well-considered letter to the Bank, partly because he did not think it had been well considered at all, and partly because (though he knew that meaning was not intended) it indulged in expressions which were liable, as they had been, to be misconstrued into indiscriminate reflections upon the country bankers. This letter was followed by the expose of the two branches of the system which the government had deter-
l.s.552Why, when it prospers, 'tis no longer treason.""Treason does never prosper—what's the reason?551l.550549548Mr. Tierney
554l.,553 did not mean to say that his hon. friend had ever been guilty of any thing so imprudent. He was too well acquainted with the system, and knew much better than to adopt that course; but, if such large sums were not destroyed, they might be locked up for a time, until opportunity offered for their re-appearance. In the district in which this burning of the notes took place, he knew there was great distress felt. The bankers alluded to were, perhaps, in a state of great irritation; but that distress would, he had no doubt, be in time removed, and it might happen that the man who had so foolishly thrown his notes into the fire, would be glad to rake up the cinders, and to find some of those notes among them. Again, he would repeat that, in his opinion, all that was wanted in the country was, the restoration of confidence. That would call forth the hoards which were now left unemployed. There was abundance of the precious metals, he also believed, which would be forthcoming, if this confidence were restored. But, the fact was, the country bankers were offended. There was, here and there, a strong expression of blame to them, in the late correspondence of government with the Bank. Perhaps, those expressions were not meant to give offence in the quarter in which it was taken; but it did unfortunately happen that they were taken
554l.,553Mr. Tierney
539 said, he felt strongly for the distresses under which the country continued to labour; and would ask, were not he and his friends fully justified in voting against the bill? Were not he and his hon. friends justified in asking, whether the present was a proper time for the introduction of such a measure? Were they not justified in having voted against it, under the existing circumstances of the country? Were they not justified in the belief which they had expressed, that ministers could not carry it? Were they not justified in their assertion, that it was impossible that the country could bear the operation of the bill? Were they not justified in stating that, taxed and impoverished as they were, the people ought not to be additionally distressed by the withdrawal of the small-note currency? He had already declared his intention of
539Mr. Bright
 called upon ministers to take the state of the country into immediate consideration. He took the present opportunity of protesting against their inactivity, in order that he might not, on some future occasion, be blamed for having participated in it. Indeed, if some explanation were not given before the House resolved itself into the committee, he did not know whether he should not be provoked to create an opportunity for delivering his own sentiments upon the present condition of the nation. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that it would be inconsistent with the ordinary practice of parliament, if, when he entered into his financial statements, he were to go into the estimates point by point. Did, then, the right hon. gentleman mean to put off his statement till all the estimates were voted? The sum voted as a supply might not be such as he proposed; and therefore it was necessary for the House to know how to apportion it to the different branches of the public service. The estimates Ought to be examined in detail, with a view of making every possible reduction in them. He doubted much whether the revenue, under the new system of currency which was going to be introduced, could be raised to any thing like its old amount. Sure he was, that the proposed alteration in the circulating medium would cause great heart-burning in the collection of the ordinary taxes of the country.Mr. Bright
l. said, he had mentioned only 13,000l.Mr. H. Gurney
543 said, that the degree in which the chancellor of the Exchequer had consented to enlarge the time for allowing the Bank of England to issue small notes, was, in his view, so far from being a dereliction of the plans which the right hon. gentleman had brought forward, that he was convinced, that it was the only possible manner in which they could be carried into effect. He had, on a former occasion, entered into the great distinction that existed between the cir-
543Mr. Hudson Gurney
508 thought the present case rather a curious one for the interference of the House. He would admit that the House might be called upon to interfere in certain cases, but he thought the present was not one of them. According to the statement of the hon. and learned mover, the first two parts of his charge were not offences of Mr. Kenrick, nor offences at all. It was another
508Mr. Stuart Wortley
522521l.,l.l.l.l.l.l. said, it appeared to him that the House was proceeding much too rapidly with respect to these estimates. He well knew, if ministers persevered in the course of expenditure which they had pursued for the last few years, the country would be little able to bear it, in the new circumstances in which it was placed. The House should be made acquainted with the amount which would be necessary for the army, navy, ordnance, and other establishments; as the amount of the last year had greatly exceeded those of former years. It might not be improper to recall the attention of the House to the fact, that in 1816, a committee had sat, composed, he might say, of his majesty's ministers—called the Finance Committee, and had reported, that the amount of the expenditure of the said establishments, after paying two millions to the India company, would not exceed 17,350,000522521l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.524 said, that ministers, at the commencement of every year called on the heads of their different establishments to give them an account of the sums they wanted for the ensuing year, in
l.l.l.524Mr. Hume
526 said, he was so far from being actuated by any angry feeling, that he would not press his amendment to a division. If his proposition went to introduce a new practice into the House, he was not aware of it. At any rate, whether new or not, he thought it highly advantageous to the public service.526Mr. Hume
534l.,l.l.l.533l.l.l.l.,l.l.,532l.l.l.l.l.l.531l.530 observed, that it was difficult for him to say whether 29,000 or 30,000 men were the exact number required for the sea-service. He should not, therefore,
534l.,l.l.l.533l.l.l.l.,l.l.,532l.l.l.l.l.l.531l.530Mr. Hume
 concurred in the propriety of the course marked out by the learned gentleman.Dr. Phillimore
 apprehended, it would be infinitely better if the observations of his learned friend at the bar should be reserved until the evidence had been in the hands of members.Mr. Denman
507506 expressed much surprise at the course which the discussion had taken. It could not be forgotten, that the charge had been placed upon the Journals in the last session; that long previous notice had been given of it; that papers had been laid upon the table; and that the grounds laid for the motion were quite unconnected with the private conduct of Mr. Kenrick. That gentleman had thought proper to apply for a criminal information against a newspaper for some comments upon his magisterial conduct, and he had put in several affidavits, in one of which was this gross libel upon Franks. Was this a private proceeding, or were the materials of accusation taken from an opponent? No; they were publicly and voluntarily furnished in a court of justice by Mr. Kenrick himself. They were in consequence, repeated in thousands of news-
507506Mr. Denman
 said, that another reason for requiring an opinion from the committee was, that in that case counsel might be heard before it in the same manner as his learned friend, Mr. Gurney, had been permitted to address the committee of last session.Mr. Denman
 thought that justice would be more likely to be done, while the proceeding would be infinitely more satisfactory to all parties, if a committee of the whole House inquired into the case without restriction. Any address to the Crown to remove a judge, must of course be the act of the House; but he did not see why a committee should not so pursue the inquiry, as to arrive at a termination which warranted it in reporting its opinion. First, the proof of the charge would be given, and upon that proof the committee might or might not report the charge established. He did not, in fact, see how the whole inquiry could be disposed of otherwise, and could find no sufficient reason, why the reported opinion of the committee, as far as it was of value, should not have its weight with the whole House.Mr. Denman
 wished the committee to inquire into the whole matter, and that Mr. Kenrick's counsel should have an opportunity of addressing the committee, when the evidence was gone through. He should think it his duty, after the inquiry was over, to propose certain resolutions.Mr. Denman
541—Well, arraign let it be; but let the House inquire what had been the conduct of those individuals. The moment the Bank directors found themselves in possession of a sufficient quantity of gold coin to supply the place of their
541Mr. Huskisson
540 said, he was not at a loss to account for the extreme degree of heat
540Mr. Huskisson
 thought, that in so grave a case, it would be well for the House to reserve its power till after the committee. Suppose the committee should be of opinion, that though the individual had not acted quite correct, his conduct had not been so censurable as to call for his removal; would it not be desirable to avoid as much as possible casting a stigma upon a public functionary so placed? He thought, upon the whole, the better course would be for the committee to take the evidence, that being the sole duty devolving upon it, and then report it, the House reserving to itself any ulterior consideration. Of the case, he knew nothing, and was therefore free from prepossession and prejudice either way.Mr. Peel
502 again pressed upon the House the necessity of settling the course of proceeding. He had omitted to state, that if the committee went through the whole of the testimony, and registered its opinion in resolutions, those resolutions, as a matter of course, would be reported, but unaccompanied by the evidence. If, on the other hand, the committee were confined to the taking of evidence, that evidence would form the report, and the House might arrive at its own decision. It was true, that evidence could be laid upon the table upon the motion of any hon. member, but such a proceeding always implied a doubt as to
502The Speaker
 said, that before he quitted the Chair, it was fit that the House should thoroughly understand the course to be pursued in the committee. If the committee were left without any instruction, it would be its duty not only to inquire into the charge by evidence, but to come to some resolution upon it, afterwards to be reported to the House; if, on the other hand, the committee, by a special instruction, were confined only to the taking of evidence, that evidence would be reported without the declaration of any opinion. Thus the result in the two cases would be different, and the course of proceeding would also materially vary. It would be observed also, that no speech from counsel could be heard, if the committee were only to take evidence, though the learned gentlemen might cross-examine the witnesses. If there were no restriction on the committee, and the whole subject were left open to its deliberation, then, of course, it would be its duty to listen to counsel on behalf of the party accused.The Speaker
 said, that in either case counsel might be heard: they could be heard before the committee, if the committee were to report their opinion, or before the House, if the House reserved to itself the consideration of the evidence.The Speaker
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,529l.l.l.528s.l.l.527 said, that it now became his duty to explain to the committee why the navy estimates of this year were greater than those of the last. He expressed a hope that he should be able to satisfy the hon. member for Aberdeen, that the navy estimates of the present year were drawn up with every attention to economy, which the safety and the honour of the country admitted. The hon. member upon this occasion, as upon many others, had referred to the opinion given by the committee of finance in 1817, as to the requisite magnitude of our naval force, and had contrasted the navy estimates of that year with the navy estimates of the present. Now, upon that head, he would say, that owing to the great extension of our commerce with the nations of South America, the calls on the Admiralty for ships of war to afford it protection had very much increased; and that with the force now voted, the Admiralty had not been able to meet the demands which had been made upon it from several quarters to send an adequate force into all those seas. The committee would recollect, that there was no part of South America with which we did not trade at present. The unsettled situation of those states, arising partly from their struggle with their mother country, and partly from their jealousy of each other, rendered it absolutely necessary for this country to have an adequate naval force on the coasts of all of them, to guard our commerce from the insults to which it would otherwise be infallibly subjected. The hon. member for Aberdeen had stated, that the increase in our naval establishment had been occasioned by a corresponding increase in. the navy of the United States. To that statement he must give an unqualified denial. The increase in our navy, since 1821, was occasioned by the increase of our commerce with South America. Its unsettled condition, which had been felt by the United States, by France, and by every naval power which had any commerce at all, had rendered an augmentation necessary in the naval force of each state. For the same reason, a necessity for increasing our force in the Mediterranean had risen out of the war now raging between the Greeks and the Turks. If we had not had a considerable naval force in that sea, we should have suffered
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,529l.l.l.528s.l.l.527Sir George Clerk
537536l.l.l.535 said, he had no wish to complain either of the statements which had just been made by the hon. member, or of the manner in which he had brought them forward; for he had done no more than what he conceived to be his duty, in directing the attention of the committee to such matters. The hon. gentleman had objected to the aggregate amount of the half-pay and pension charge, as being this year excessive, instead of exhibiting
537536l.l.l.535Sir G. Clerk
 said, that his argument did not go the length of asserting, that all moderation and decorum might be banished from the bench, and yet no public inquiry should take place by that House. He would admit, that the private conduct and actions of judges might in some cases become the subject of parliamentary inquiry; but these were extreme cases. If a judge was guilty of a libel, the law would reach him as well as any other person; and where that remedy might be had, he did not think, except in extreme cases, the House should interfere in matters affecting private conduct.Mr. Scarlett
505 felt that the present charge was only part of the proceeding of last session. From professional connexion with the parties, he had, from the first, been unwilling to say one word upon the subject; and he should have been deeply impressed with what had fallen from the hon. member for Hertford, if the present accusation had stood alone. One part of it was for a malicious prosecution, and the other for a libel; and for both, the ordinary tribunals of the country afforded sufficient remedies. Franks might bring his action for a malicious prosecution, if the prosecution were malicious; or he might proceed for damages for a libel, if the publication complained of were libellous. He agreed fully with the hon. member for Hertford as to the nature of the charge; he had never, indeed, read it until that moment, but he found that Mr. Kenrick was not accused in it, either as a magistrate or as a judge. He could easily
505Mr. Scarlett
s.542 said, he was apprehensive that the incidental wants of the country would oblige ministers to abandon their original principle, and that when they should have abandoned their principle, his hon. friends, of the philosophic club behind him, would come down upon them. Do what they would, ministers could not please. The system of going on upon principle and theory was to him so novel
s.542Sir J. Wrottesley
567 said, he had received a petition from Mr. Kenrick, whose case was before the House on Friday last, with a request that it might be presented. He would, therefore, move that it be printed, in order that it might be in the hands of members before the discussion on Mr. Kenrick's case tomorrow.567Mr. Denison
 said, that the prayer was, that the House would consider the statement. The object was, to have it printed, and put into the hands of members before they entered upon the discussion of the case.Mr. Denison
 observed, that the paper was merely a defence, and no petition, and had a copy of a letter attached to it on the same paper, which could not be regularly annexed to a petition.Mr. Wynn
568 said, that this was certainly a most extraordinary and irregular proceeding. The House had gone into a committee on the charge, and had allowed Mr. Kenrick to attend by his counsel, witnesses, and agents. But, after he had an opportunity of fully making his defence, was he now to come with a statement of his own view of the facts? Any statement he had to make would be made by his counsel; but it was not to be tolerated, that he should proceed in this most extraordinary and irregular manner. How did the case stand with respect to Mr. Peters? He had brought a charge against that most respectable gentleman in his absence, after he had an opportunity of cross-examining him at the bar, and had declined to do so. He expressed his
568Mr. Abercromby
 said, he had considered it his duty to present the petition, and the House would dispose of it as it thought proper.Mr. Denison
 wished to ask the Speaker, whether it was regular to present a petition with a copy of a letter referred to in the body of it subjoined to the petition, on the same paper?Mr. Wynn
 expressed his surprise that the learned gentleman should not be aware of the fact, that members of parliament, as matter of privilege, were exempted from attending as jurors during the sitting of parliament. The duties of a member of parliament were so important, that he thought there could be no doubt that they exempted members from being obliged to attend in any of the courts as jurors. There was a case which the learned gentleman would no doubt recollect, in which lord Hardwicke fined the member for Shoreham for not attending as a juror, parliament not being at that time sitting; but he did not deny the principle, that when parliament was sitting, the member would be exempted from attending.Mr. Wynn
 had no doubt that the privilege of parliament did exempt members from being called upon as jurors. If, however, any doubts arose in other quarters, they should be removed by a precise exemption.Mr. Abercromby
570 repeated his opinion, that there could be no doubt that members were exempted from attending as jurors
570Mr. Wynn
 said, the noble lord had somewhat misunderstood what he had said on a former evening, as to his having no intention at present to propose the extension of this bill to Scotland. He certainly wished that the bill for England should first be disposed of; for, in his opinion, the state of the two countries with regard to this question was not precisely similar; and although it seemed to him that the measure would be beneficial for Scotland as well as for England, still, as the adoption or rejection of it might be argued on different grounds for the two countries, it would be a very inconvenient and confused method of proceeding to mix, up the two questions and discuss them together. It was, however, by no means his intention to defer drawing the attention of the House to this question, as it regarded Scotland, beyond the present session; for he understood that a very considerable ferment prevailed in the minds of people there on this subject; and it could not be expected that such ferment would be allayed, so long as it remained in doubt what course the legislature intended to pursue with regard to that country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that if the new measure proposed for allowing the Bank of England to continue their issue of one and two pound notes should be adopted by the House, he would move that a clause be introduced into the bill, for having a return made every week to the privy council of the number of small notes in circulation in the week preceding; and also an account every quarter of the average amount of small notes issued in that quarter, for the purpose of being published in the London Gazette.Mr. Grenfell
574 said, he could not but admire the dexterity which the chancellor of the Exchequer had evinced on the pre-
574Mr. Calcraft
576l.l.;l.;l.l.l.l.;l.575 begged to call the attention of the House to one or two facts bearing on the question before them. He had supported this bill to the present time, and he was anxious to continue that support. He was glad to see the determination of government to carry cash payments, and he hoped the period was not far distant, when they would push the system further than they were now enabled to do. The soundest policy justified such a course of proceeding. The more he considered this subject, the more he reflected upon the large mass of paper which was issued, the more was he convinced; that the principle on which they ought to act was come at, only perhaps it would not go far enough. If they went to the root of the evil, they would do away with the issue of the five-pound notes. If this view were correct, there followed from it, that, whenever there was a large amount
576l.l.;l.;l.l.l.l.;l.575Mr. Whitmore
580579578l.s.577s.l.l. expressed his dissatisfaction at the course intended to be pursued by the chancellor of the Exchequer, in exempting the Bank of England from the operation of the measures originally submitted to the House by him, for restricting the issues of one and two pound notes. He considered much of the mischief that had lately been witnessed, to be owing to the powers enjoyed at will by the Bank, in limiting or extending their issues; and that the effect of such conduct on their part was, to render the property of every man insecure. They had issued, in October last, 18,000,000580579578l.s.577s.l.l.Mr. Maberly
599l.l.l.l.l.l.598 rose to express his disapprobation of the original measure. His hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, had, in the course of his speech, put forth the principles held by the late Mr. Ricardo, whose disciple he avowed himself to be. The great advantages, however, which were supposed to be derivable from a paper-currency convertible at will into gold, were not so obvious. The efficacy of such a currency had been tried, and the result was now before the House, because such a currency we had at this moment. With respect to the system of calling upon bankers to make deposits by way of security for the notes they should issue, he thought it could never be brought into general operation. He had discussed the subject with a very intelligent country banker, from whom he learnt that the whole of the body to which he belonged expressed the greatest disinclination to act upon such a system. With regard to the observations of the hon. member for Northampton, on the exchanges, he did not think there was such a variation in them as would warrant the inferences
599l.l.l.l.l.l.598Colonel Davies
 rose, not for the purpose of entering into any discussion, but merely to submit to the House the situation in which they stood with regard to the business before them. He would leave it to the good sense of the House to decide, whether it was not better to proceed fairly with the business of the day, and place his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, in the only situation in which he could possibly answer the appeals which had been made to, him for three hours, without transgressing all order, and contravening not only the courtesy but the convenience of the House. What was very extraordinary was, that the hon. member opposite seemed to think that he was paying something like a personal compliment to the Speaker in pursuing the course which he had adopted. He believed he might venture to say, that the Speaker did not enter into the feelings of the hon. member, and would not at all take it amiss if he were allowed to leave the chair, for the purpose of the discussion taking place, the fruits of which would come before him in the usual way. Gentlemen might, he knew, oppose the question that the Speaker do leave the chair, as often as they thought proper; but, if that course were pursued, there would at once be a stop to all business. He trusted that his right hon. friend would not be betrayed into anticipating what he had to say, and that gentlemen would not object to the House resolving itself into a committee, in which they might state their objections to the principle of the measure, as well as to its details.Mr. Secretary Canning
600 said, that the most convenient course to pursue was to proceed with the bill, until he
600The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 remarked, that a general alteration ought to be made in the bill, as a consequence of repealing the 37th would be to revive the 15th and 17th of the late king, whereby the holders of small notes would never be able to get value for them, as those acts said they were null and void altogether.Lord Folkestone
 thought the noble lord had misunderstood the clause; but to prevent any mistakes, it might be as well to omit the word "circulate," if the noble lord thought it would have the effect which he attributed to it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the clause alluded to said, that no promissory note should be issued, not circulated: now that was only a prohibition to the issue or re-issue of notes, but not to their circulation by the holders of them.The Attorney-General
608607606605604603602601 rose to propose the amendment, of which he had given notice, relative to the power to be given to the Bank of England of stamping small notes up to the tenth October next. He felt grateful to the House for the manner in which they had received the appeal of his right hon. friend, for permitting the Speaker to leave the chair. He had thus, through the indulgence of the House, been permitted at an earlier period of the night to proceed in the explanation of his views on the important point he was about to submit to their consideration, and in removing the many mistakes which, from a misapprehension of its real object, and probable results, seemed to have taken possession of the minds of many honourable gentlemen. He thought it a little hard that he should have been treated as he had been, both
608607606605604603602601The Chancellor of the Exchequer
612611610609 said, he had never heard a speech that had gone so short a way in producing a favourable impression in support of a proposition, as that just delivered by the right hon. gentleman. He was directly opposed to the amendment, because he conceived it to be quite at variance with the general principles which they all had in view. The great difficulty under which he laboured was the want of ability to do justice to the objections which he felt against the measure; and, in one respect, he concurred with the right hon. gentleman, who had said that his objection would be immoveable, if he thought it could defeat the general principle, in favour of which the House had voted before. But his principle objection was, that the House was called upon to support the inconsistency of the right hon. gentleman, without having had it shewn that any thing had occurred since last Monday to justify the change. And this course was the more objectionable, when we were endeavouring, in the face of the difficulties which beset us, to place our currency on sound and true principles. Nothing was more desirable, than that there should be no wavering or vacillation
612611610609Mr. Abercromby
571 said, he held in his hand a petition which he had been requested to present to the House, and which proceeded from an individual who, he should make no scruple in saying was, in his opinion, one of the ablest men in the country, and he believed, when he informed the House that the petitioner was Mr. William Cobbett, most hon. members would agree with him in this opinion. The petitioner stated, that he had, for the last sixteen years, observed the calamitous effects which had at different times during that period been caused all through the country by the fluctuations which had occasionally taken place in the value of the currency; that
571Lord Folkestone
 wished, as the right hon. gentleman had alluded to the eulogium which he had passed on the conduct of the Bank to say a word in explanation. He never entertained any sentiments with respect to the transactions of the Bank which he did not at present feel. With respect to the immediate point in question, it happened that a meeting of the Bank proprietors had been called, and the conduct which the directors had pursued in the latter end of December—conduct which tended to restore public confidence—was noticed as worthy of approbation. He, in consequence, moved a vote of thanks to that body, with this limitation—"that those thanks were voted with reference to the conduct of the Bank in the late crisis of difficulty and danger to the mercantile world." This acknowledgment he thought they merited.Mr. Grenfell
628627 said, that, although he felt that the arguments of his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had exhausted the subject, still he thought k right to state the grounds on which he was induced to give his support to the amendment. He must,
628627Mr. Secretary Peel
620619l.l.618617616l.615 said, he presented himself thus early in the debate, because he believed that the House needed only clearly to understand the measure in discussion, and to see that measure in the light in which it was meant to be brought forward, to come without difficulty to a fair, just, and conscientious conclusion. He agreed in the truth of the first observation of the hon. member who had last spoken; but not in the latter point, as to the manner or principle upon which the Bank was accustomed to regulate its issues. But this was a matter of no consequence; because the question was not, whether the Bank should have unlimited power to issue, or should be altogether restrained from issuing a particular description of notes; but whether the latitude given to the Bank, by the present amendment would, such as it was, defeat the original measure. Now, the hon. and learned member who opened the opposition to the amendment said, that no reason had been given by ministers, why that course which had not been proposed by them, or supported on the discussion a week since, should now be presented for the approval of the House? To that observation there were two answers: and the first was, that the measure before the
620619l.l.618617616l.615Mr. Secretary Canning
631 assured the committee that it was not his intention to take up more than a few minutes of their time. Whatever difficulty other gentlemen might have to prove the consistency and to justify the inconsistency of their opinions upon this subject, he could have no difficulty in proving that, he was perfectly consistent in now supporting the measure with the clause, though he had opposed the measure without the clause. He begged leave to remind them, what the position was which he had taken on the former discussion. He did not condemn the principle of that measure. On the contrary, no gentleman could be more fully convinced than he was, that the circulation of small notes was a perfect nuisance; and that with that evil present there could be no dependence on a return to a metallic currency. But his doubt was, that they could not, as he then expressed himself, come at their purpose by a direct course, "as the crow flies." Gentlemen talked of two years as an improbable period for attaining that object. The fact was, that two years would be more than enough time, if they could go on progressively throughout each of the four-and-twenty-months. But experience proved, that the moment they cried down any portion of the circulation, it went too fast. His complaint was, that the speeches and papers of ministers had acted like the cry of "mad dog" on the country notes, and that not only had the bankers themselves hastily drawn in their circulation through fear of being run down, but the whole country, as if nauseating that currency which before was found so useful, threw it upon the banks in overwhelming quantities. He admitted that it was a desirable object to return to a metallic currency. But, they seemed to wish to pass from a state of over-abundant circulation to the most straitened limits of it, not considering, that the very excess of paper, which was alleged to exist, the great extent to which schemes and
631Mr. Baring
633 said, that consistency required him to vote against the amendment. He confessed that, if the bill had been introduced without any modification of the measure as to the time to be allowed to country banks and the Bank of England, he should have felt less objection to it. But, as he saw ministers in the act of yielding, and yielding, too, upon a point which they had declared to be mainly important, he had no hope that they would be able to resist the external pressure of circumstances on another occasion, and really get rid of the one and two pound notes. Their firmness had been tried already upon this very subject. The House was now in a committee on a bill to put an end to one and two pound notes at the end of three years; and only four years ago, from the pressure of circumstances, they were induced to pass that very bill which this was meant to repeal; and now there was a clause proposed which, in effect, wholly prevented that repeal. What reason had they to hope that they could ever arrive at the metallic currency, after so many experiments and failures? He had objected to the small-note bill at the time, because it prevented the country from recurring to that standard; and now the House were rushing upon a measure which was introduced to prevent the repeal of that act from being carried into effect. The right hon. the President of the Board of Trade had stated, that some of the evil of a former period had been caused by collecting gold in order to return to cash payments. At that time the Bank had a great quantity of gold accumulated in its coffers, and the measure of, 1822 was for getting it out. But it appeared that the measure of getting gold, out of their coffers had had no good effect; for, in five months afterwards, when four millions had been drawn from the Bank, they passed the bill to allow of the circulation of small notes. If difficulties were then great, what must they now be? The experiment, he contended, had been already tried, and he thought the House was only rushing into the difficulties from which they had extricated themselves by
633Lord Folkestone
 seconded the motion, and observed, that it was with feelings of great regret that he found the chancellor of the Exchequer had been induced to vary from his original resolutions. Such variation had raised apprehensions in his mind, that something would again occur to defeat the measure, and prevented his feeling any certainty that it would ever be carried into execution.Colonel Johnson
573 observed, that on a former occasion, he had applied to know whether this measure was, or was not to apply to Scotland. He had understood the chancellor of the Exchequer to say, that it was intended to apply to Scotland, at the end of three years. He now understood that the prime minister of the country, had said elsewhere, that the intention was, that the bill should be brought in, but should not commence for three years from this time, and should then take three years to complete its operation; thus extending the period for working its effects over six years from this time. He begged to state, that the agitation now pervading Scotland upon this subject was extreme. The Scotch thought this measure hostile to their interests. It was a very different thing to petition for the repeal of a measure, and to petition against a new measure. He had, therefore, a right
573Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that he was in the same situation as his hon. friend. He had been summoned, and fined for non-attendance.Mr. Davenport
 said, that he, too, had unfortunately been fined in the same court for not attending as a juror, though an excuse was offered for him by another juror, that he was prevented from attending by his duties as a member of parliament. The court, however, refused to accept of that excuse, and held that the privilege of a member of parliament did not exempt him from attending as a juror.Mr. Ellice
 rose to second the amendment, not because he coincided in all the opinions of his hon. friend, but because he wished to see the present measure fairly brought before the House. He thought, besides, that it would be advisble to go into a committee on the subject, before the House resolved upon departing from the old and approved practice.Mr. Ellice
629 defended himself from the charge of inconsistency. His real fault was only this—that he had yielded, in an abstract opinion, to the pressure of circumstances. The question of free trade would soon come before the House, and
629Mr. Ellice
 rose, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a subject in which, as he conceived, some of its privileges were concerned. He had received, some short time ago, a summons to attend as a juror in the court of Exchequer, and for not attending he was fined. This, he conceived, was contrary to the provisions of the late act for the regulation of juries. In the former act, it was understood, that members of parliament were exempted from attending as jurors during the sitting of parliament, and he had thought that the same provision was continued in the late act. He had felt it his duty to mention the circumstance to the House, but he was not prepared to submit any motion on the subject.Mr. Holford
626625l.624623l.622621 said, he would endeavour to follow the right hon. gentleman, as nearly as he could, through the course of his observations. If he could be satisfied that the effect of adopting this amendment would be that which the right hon. gentleman had stated, he for one would certainly agree to it. But it was because he was of opinion, that no such effect would follow its adoption—it was because he was convinced that, in 1829, the legislature and the country would be placed in just the same difficulty as they had now to contend with, that he felt himself obliged to oppose the proposition. It appeared to him very strange, that gentlemen who had opposed the principle of the bill, without this new clause, was now
626625l.624623l.622621Mr. Tierney
638637636635634 said, he could not go to the vote, without stating his opinion with regard to the amendment. With his right hon. friend, the member for Waterford, he had hoped the chancellor of the Exchequer would have enabled him to vote for the clause, as he had lent his support to the bill, and he did not feel the least disposition to give the measure any opposition—calculated, as he thought it was, to promote the restoration of the crippled commerce of this country, and guard it from similar convulsions, by restraining the issue of one and two pound notes, and restoring, at that favourable time, a healthy state of the currency. He had listened attentively to the arguments of the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer, and also to the more cogent statements of the right hon. the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs; but, like his right hon. friend, his mind was made up not to vote for the clause; the doing which was quite consistent, in his opinion, with the support he had given to the bill. He considered the clause as founded on principles of an opposite nature from those on which he understood the measure to be framed, and on which he supported it; and, because the clause was
638637636635634Mr. Brougham
 said, that if the clauses proposed by the hon. member for Aberdeen were adopted, they would go to extinguish the small circulation altogether; as no banker, in his sober senses, as things now stood, would under them issue a note.Mr. Hudson Gurney
630 said, that there was nothing
630Mr. Irving
 said, that the Bank of England note was the worst for circulation, as it brought with it the dreadful hazards of forgery. The parliament and the public were anxious to return to a metallic currency, and the scarcity of gold was the alleged difficulty. If gold was so scarce, silver was not. What objection could there be to leaving it to the bankers to pay in either as it suited them? That there were too many notes in circulation, would prove but an awkward confession, and that those who had issued them were not entitled to any confidence from the public. It had been said, that there was something approaching to mutiny among the country bankers. In his opinion, if any thing approaching to mutiny existed, it was among the people who held the notes, and who flocked in with them to demand gold. There had been meetings in Manchester and other places, where the mechanics had resolved not to take one-pound notes of country bankers. He highly approved of the conduct of the country bankers, and could not conscientiously give his support to the amendment.Mr. Monck
 said, that there was no reasonable ground for apprehension that the Bank of England would unnecessarily issue small notes. The period of the bank restriction had been referred to; but he begged the House to bear in mind, that at that time they issued their notes under no liability. Now the case was different; for they were bound to pay their notes in bullion. While much praise had been bestowed upon the Bank from all sides, charges had also been brought against the directors which were not altogether fair. At one time, it was said, they encouraged the circulation by over-issue; and, at another time, reduced it by undue contraction. In this latter charge, all sides agreed; but, in truth, neither the one charge nor the other was correct. It was only when there was a want of paper, and the bankers would not give discounts, that these issues were made. Truth and justice called upon him to declare, in the face of the House, that the charges brought against the Bank were not founded in fact.Mr. Pearse
614l.613 said, he differed entirely from his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down. He was as anxious as any man to remove, as speedily as possible, the panic which had recently taken place; but he felt, with the chancellor of the Exchequer, that the measure was not clearly understood. The recent distresses were not, in his opinion, to be attributed to the circulation of one and two pound notes; but to a series of other events. The chancellor of the Exchequer had, in the course of his speech on that and other occasions, talked about giving security to country bankers, but there was another body to whom he wished to give security and support; he meant the company of the Bank of England. What had been the conduct of that establishment in December last, when the panic which had run through the country was at its height? They had come forward with a degree of spirit and promptitude which could not be too highly praised, to support the credit and character of the trading interests of the country. They had, it was well known, afforded the most liberal assistance. Let the House recollect what had taken place in distant parts of the country. Individuals and companies of persons had applied for and received large sums of money from the Bank of England, and when the alarm became great, they turned round upon the Bank and said, "Now, we request you to give us gold for all this paper." The Bank of England had advanced, in the course of one week, more than a million in gold, and finding the demand for assistance still continue, they showed their good sense by returning to an issue of one and two pound notes. This they were entitled to do under the existing law, and had only abstained from doing by a feeling, that their circulation might be avoided without injuring the country. A similar circulation had been continued throughout the
614l.613Mr. John Smith
 said, he was present in the court of Exchequer when the fine was ordered to be levied on his hon. friend (Mr. Ellice). The opinion of the Court was not given without a reference to the late act. That act was referred to, and it appeared that the Court did not consider the words sufficient to exempt members on the ground of their privilege. His own opinion was, that it did, and it had always been so held; but the Court was of a contrary opinion; and he would say, only that he did not wish to bring the learned baron of the Exchequer to the bar of the House, that his decision was in contempt of their privileges.Mr. J. Williams
597l.596l.595l.l.594l.£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting
£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,000
3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,0006,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices
6,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures
3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loans
£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loans
£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting
£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,000
3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,0006,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices
6,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures
3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loans
£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loansl.593592£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825
£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 1825
£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 182525,200,000Add capitals created in 1824
25,200,000Add capitals created in 182415,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825
15,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825Commercial Bonds
Commercial Bonds288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember
288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly
244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay
388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch
1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto
760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary
1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary
1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary£.1825.
£.1825.Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No. 2.
No. 2.
£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825
£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 1825
£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 182525,200,000Add capitals created in 1824
25,200,000Add capitals created in 182415,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825
15,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825Commercial Bonds
Commercial Bonds288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember
288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly
244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay
388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch
1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto
760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary
1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary
1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary£.1825.
£.1825.Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No. 2.
No. 2.£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans
£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment
2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans
£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 1824
£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 18244,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December
4,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember
775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust
616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly
540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay
468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril
3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch
252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto
170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto
844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary
690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary£.£.1824.
£.£.1824.Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.
No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.
£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans
£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment
2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans
£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 1824
£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 18244,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December
4,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember
775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust
616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly
540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay
468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril
3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch
252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto
170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto
844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary
690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary£.£.1824.
£.£.1824.Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.
No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.591l.l.l.See next pagel.l.l.See next page[See next page590589588587586l.l.585l.584583l.l.l.l.l.l.582581 said, he was fully aware of the anxiety, on the part of the House, to go into the committee; but he must beg leave to detain it for a short time, while he made a few observations. He was sorry to say he could not, after the most serious attention to the subject, bring himself to consider that there was any sound principle of policy in the measure which had been proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer as a remedy for the evils they had lately suffered. If they took a review of the sentiments delivered by that right hon. gentleman on the occasion of his submitting his proposition to the House, and observed, that he attributed all their misfortunes to the issue of six millions, or four millions, as it was at one time stated, although he believed it not so much as either, of country bank-notes, he was sure they would see grounds for doubting the propriety of the remedy which had been proposed. In his opinion, if the exchanges had been against this country—and against it, at one time, they were—the evil was not at all occasioned by the issue of Bank-notes, and it had, he believed, cured itself by operations altogether independent of the Bank of England. Their issues had not, therefore, remedied that which was clearly remedied without them. Ministers had asserted, in their famous Letter to the Bank directors, that
597l.596l.595l.l.594l.£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting
£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,000
3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,0006,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices
6,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures
3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loans
£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loans
£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting
£20,822,700Total money and labour expended, for which the Market is wanting3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,000
3,600,000Ditto, for more paid for the Goods imported in 1824 and 1825 than can now be obtained, or has been obtained for them by sale, since they were imported, ten per cent. on the total import of 1825, 36,000,0006,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices
6,000,000Ditto, for excess of import of Goods, valued at the present low and ruinous prices3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures
3,097,000Ditto, Foreign Mining Schemes and Adventures£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loans
£8,125,753Advanced for Foreign Loansl.593592£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825
£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 1825
£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 182525,200,000Add capitals created in 1824
25,200,000Add capitals created in 182415,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825
15,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825Commercial Bonds
Commercial Bonds288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember
288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly
244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay
388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch
1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto
760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary
1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary
1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary£.1825.
£.1825.Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No. 2.
No. 2.
£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825
£6,359,623⅛Total amount actually paid for foreign loans, 1825£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 1825
£40,669,571Total Capital of foreign loans created in the years 1824 and 182525,200,000Add capitals created in 1824
25,200,000Add capitals created in 182415,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825
15,469,57⅛Total Capital Stock created in 1825Commercial Bonds
Commercial Bonds288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember
288,000600,0006 per cts.GuadelajaraSeptember244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly
244,5431,428,571⅛6 per cts.GuatemalaJuly388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay
388,080616,0006 per cts.PeruMay1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch
1,757,5005,625,0003 per cts.DenmarkMarch760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto
760,0002,000,0005 per cts.GreeceDitto1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary
1,861,5003,200,0006 per cts.MexicoFebruary1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary
1,060,0002,000,0005 per cts.BrazilJanuary£.1825.
£.1825.Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance value actually remitted from England on account of Loans, either in Money or produce of LabourCapital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No. 2.
No. 2.£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans
£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment
2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans
£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 1824
£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 18244,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December
4,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember
775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust
616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly
540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay
468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril
3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch
252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto
170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto
844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary
690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary£.£.1824.
£.£.1824.Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.
No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.
£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans
£10,005,250Balance money paid by England in 1824 for foreign loans2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment
2,500,000Deduct Austrian Repayment£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans
£12,505,250Total sums really paid away for Foreign loans£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 1824
£25,200,000Total capital stock created in 18244,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December
4,992,0006,000,000France, 5 per cents. during the course of 1824.December775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember
775,0002,500,0005 per cts.NaplesNovember616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust
616,0001,200,0005 per cts.BrazilAugust540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly
540,0001,000,0006 per cts.Buenos AyresJuly468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay
468,750750,0006 per cts.PeruMay3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril
3,157,5004,750,0006 per cts.ColombiaApril252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch
252,000800,0005 per cts.GreeceMarch170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto
170,0003,500,0005 per cts.AustriaDitto844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto
844,0003,200,0005 per cts.MexicoDitto690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary
690,0001,500,0005 per cts.PortugalJanuary£.£.1824.
£.£.1824.Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.
Balance of Money actually remitted from England on account of Foreign loans, either in money or produce.Capital Stock created.Country contracted with.Date of Contract.No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.
No.1.—ACCOUNT of all FOREIGN LOANS raised in ENGLAND during the year 1824; and an ACCOUNT exhibiting the country contracted with, the capital stock created during the same year, and the balance of money actually remitted from ENGLAND on ACCOUNT of FOREIGN LOANS, either in money or produce.591l.l.l.See next pagel.l.l.See next page[See next page590589588587586l.l.585l.584583l.l.l.l.l.l.582581Mr. Hume
 then declared his intention to move the introduction of two clauses into the bill. One giving a summary power to magistrates to compel bankers to pay their notes in cash. Every act of parliament relating to banks, down to the 37th George 3rd, contained a clause to that effect. The other clause would go to compel bankers to deposit in the hands of certain commissioners, funds to the amount of the small notes issued by them. It would, he thought, greatly check over-issues if these commissioners were empowered to convert the stock, so in their custody, into money, for the discharge of the bankers notes, such a measure would produce great confidence. He was likewise anxious that the bankers should be required to pay their notes in the several places where they might be issued. The currency could not be said to be settled on a convenient footing, if persons were obliged to travel up to London to procure cash for their notes.Mr. Hume
 said, it was well known that many parts of the country were at that time in a state of starvation, for the want of some sort of currency. In Yorkshire they were in such distress that the manufacturers could not pay their men, except by orders on the butcher and the baker. This was a growing evil, which called loudly for correction. If the country bankers were such a dangerous set of men, it was the more necessary that the people should have the security afforded by the amendment. No doubt, a circulating medium of small notes was, at present, necessary for the country; and if country bankers withdrew their paper earlier than the date prescribed, so much the better.Mr. T. Wilson
641l.640639 said, it had not been his intention to have troubled the House with any observations of his at so late a period of the debate; nor should he have arisen
641l.640639Mr. Huskisson
 said, he had not made any special exemption of members of parliament in the late bill for regulating juries, because he thought the question already established. An exemption of practising physicians had been made; but it was not conceived that there was any necessity for mentioning what it was supposed had been already so well understood. However, it would be proper that the point should be placed beyond further doubt.Mr. Peel
 said, it appeared to him, that there was no doubt that the privilege of parliament did protect a member from liability to attend as a juror, and he thought the decision of lord Hardwicke, just cited, was decisive that it had been so held in the courts. If, however, there now existed any doubts on the subject from the wording of the new act, he thought it should be expressed more clearly; but, as it appeared to him, the thing was already quite clear. If it did not appear in the same light to any of the courts, means should be taken to set the matter at rest.Mr. Peel
 said, that the House certainly would be extremely unwilling to refuse, upon a mere point of form, to hear any thing which an accused person might think material for his defence; but this was certainly not a petition, and no injustice would be done by rejecting the paper presented in this shape, since every statement of that kind might be stated by counsel in the defence.Mr. Peel
 replied, that it was irregular, and that there was the double objection, that the copy only was produced, the original being in existence. It was obvious that the paper could not be printed.The Speaker
 said, that if it was a petition, the House would be much inclined to receive it, as great latitude was allowed to petitioners, especially to such as stood in the situation of the individual accused. But then, if it was no petition, but simply a defence, that was matter for his counsel and evidence; and he did not know how the House could receive this paper in the double character of petition and defence. It was certainly contrary to the usual practice.The Speaker
 requested the hon. member to state in what character this paper was presented; for, as far as he could understand it, there was no proper prayer to it.The Speaker
569 said, that the courts were
569Mr. Scarlett
 repeated his remark, that the excuse would be admitted by the courts of law, but not recognized as a matter of right.Mr. Scarlett
632 said, he was anxious to explain to the House why, when he had supported the measure originally, he could not support the amendment. He
632Sir John Newport
 said, he wished to obtain information from the Speaker to guide him in the situation in which he stood. He had, in pursuance of the orders of the House, to attend a committee to-morrow morning, and he was also summoned as a juror in Westminster-hall. Now, how was it possible for him to obey their orders, and at the same time discharge his duty to his country in the situation of juror? He was at a loss how to proceed under these circumstances, and he threw himself on the Speaker for the benefit of his advice.Mr. Bennett
, shortly after, reported, from the committee of privileges, to whom the matter of complaint made by a member of the House of his being summoned as a jury-man in the Court of Exchequer, in the case of the King against Steel, was referred, that they had examined the matter of the said complaint, and had come to the following resolutions:Mr. Wynn
 observed, that as, no doubt, the fines had been imposed in consequence of a misconstruction of the act, he thought the House would sufficiently assert its privileges by agreeing to this report, and proceeding no further in the affair.Mr. Wynn
647l.l.646l.l.645l. rose to present a petition, in which he requested the attention of the House. It related to a subject to which he had before adverted, and to which, notwithstanding all that had been said, he could not help attributing a great portion of the present distress—he meant Joint-stock Companies. When hon. members considered that every one of the shares in those bubbles which was thrown on the market was a bad piece of currency, they would not be surprised at the extent of the evil. The loss occasioned by the pitch to which these ruinous speculations were carried, if the highest rate of premium and the lowest rate of discount were considered, would, he had no doubt, be found to fall little short of 14,000,000647l.l.646l.l.645l.Mr. Hobhouse
, rose, pursuant to notice, to introduce a bill for the more effectual prevention of bear-baiting, dog-fighting, and other cruel sports. It was, he observed, so very unusual to oppose a bill on the motion for its introduction, that he felt it incumbent on him not to take up much of the time of the House. He would therefore reserve himself to answer any arguments by which his application might be opposed. The bill for which he should move had this recommendation to the representatives of the people, that it was generally approved of by their constituents throughout the country. He held in his hand a list of fifty-two petitions, presented from some of the most populous cities and towns of the kingdom, praying that an end might be put to these cruel sports. These disgraceful scenes were carried on in places called pits, and in no places were they more cruel and disgusting than in that called the Patrician-pit in the neighbourhood of that House. It had become the duty of parliament to put an end to these enormities. He would conclude by moving for leave to bring in his bill.Mr. Martin of Galway
 said, that the merits of this case had been so frequently discussed, that he felt it would not be necessary to make any further comments upon it. He would therefore confine himself to stating, that he would oppose the bill. [Cries of "Question, question."]The Attorney-General
649648 said, he could hardly persuade himself that a case which had come to the House recommended by the inhabitants of fifty-two respectable places would have been met by cries of "question, question." The hon. members who raised those cries could not, surely, be aware of so many petitions being before them on the subject, otherwise they would not have thought it decent to limit the expression of their opinions to that brief
649648Mr. Martin
 said, he certainly thought, last session, that the House had gone far enough in legislating upon this subject; but, in the course of the last summer, a most brutal, cowardly, and atrocious scene was permitted to take place at Warwick. He alluded to the lion fight. Every gentleman who had read an account of that disgraceful scene must be of opinion that the laws were deficient; for he was quite sure that, if the magistrates had felt they had power to put a stop to it, they would have interfered. That scene was a disgrace to human nature; and some law ought to have sufficient force to prevent a similar occurrence. The noble animal which had been so tormented was more worthy of protection than its brutal owner.Colonel Wood
 said, that the fact of tearing out the tongue of the bull was authenticated to him by the clergyman of the parish where the occurrence took place. The hon. member for Oxfordshire could confirm what he said.Mr. Martin
652 said, he could not approve of those personal appeals which the hon. member for Galway thought proper to make to his hon. and learned friend; and, as to the insinuations that his lion, and learned friend would injure himself in the estimation of those whose suffrages he was about to court, he could only say, that if his hon. and learned friend stood up, as he always had done, in a fair and manly way, to avow his princiciples, and if, when a proposition was submitted to the House, which appeared to him to originate in a mistaken notion of humanity, he expressed his disapprobation of such measure, there was little danger that he would lower himself in the estimation of those whose support he should solicit. He felt the more anxious to express his disapprobation of the way in which his hon. and learned friend had been treated, because he entertained the same opinion with him upon this bill. If this measure were now for the first time submitted to the consideration of the House, he should perhaps have thought it expedient to entertain it. But it was by no means a novel question. It had been discussed six or seven times in former sessions, and the House was now as competent as it would be at any future time to come to a sound conclusion upon it. God forbid that he should treat with levity the instances of atrocious cruelty which had been detailed by the hon. member. Nothing could be more disgraceful than levity upon such an occasion. He abominated those deeds of disgusting cruelty as much as any man could do. But the question was, whether or not, upon individual cases of abuse, the House was prepared to make an enactment of
652Mr. Secretary Peel
655654, of Gal way, next rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the 3rd George 4th, c. 71, entitled "An Act to prevent the cruel and improper Treatment of Cattle." The hon. gentleman said, that he wished to extend the protection which was granted by former measures to cattle, to all domesticated animals. Why was not a dog entitled to the same protection as a horse? He was prepared to show, by affidavits, that there were numerous instances of dogs being flayed alive. It had been asked, were they to legislate upon individual instances of monstrous cruelty? He would reply by stating a case which had been mentioned to him by Mr. Halls, the magistrate of Bow-street. That gentleman had informed him, that he had seen a parcel of wretches take a dog, flay him alive, taking the skin completely off, put a collar about his neck, and after dragging him a mile, throw him into a river. Mr. Halls added, that, so much were his feelings wrought upon by this exhibition, that he did what was certainly a violation of the law, but was highly to the credit of his humanity—he took the boy who was holding the collar, and flung him into the river after the dog. He (Mr. M.) stated nothing now but what he gave chapter and verse for. As to the fact which he had stated relative to the cutting out of the tongue of a bull, and its being severed from the surrounding integuments by a brutal fellow who had thrust his hand into the animal's mouth for the purpose, and lastly, as to the tongue being handed about the crowd in a plate for money, the person who held it, saying, "please to put something on the tongue," he would appeal for the truth of the statement to the hon. member for Oxfordshire, before whom the offenders, he understood, were brought. Could any one, after hearing such a statement, refuse their protection to the unfortunate animal, who was so often subjected to such treatment? He had taken the opinion of his majesty's Attorney-General on the subject, and, he was happy to say, that the opinion of that learned person, beyond all doubt a good one, was decidedly unfavourable to the legality of such proceedings. The Attorney-General conceived that it was as unlawful to hurt a bull in that manner, as it would be to maim or torture any other animal [The Attorney-General here indulged in a smile]. The learned gentleman might laugh, and no doubt he
655654Mr. Martin
656 said, that he was not present when the hon. member for Gal way had addressed the House on the subject of the bull; but he had been informed that the hon. gentleman had said, that aft individual had torn out the tongue of the bull,
656Mr. Ashurst
 —Yes.Mr. Martin.
 begged leave to say, that a complaint had been made to him of conduct similar to that which the hon. member stated; but when the parties came before him to substantiate that complaint upon oath, it assumed a very different aspect. It appeared that, during the time the bull was getting baited, a ferocious dog, which had been tied up in a House adjoining to the spot where the baiting took place, escaped from his kennel, attacked the bull, and actually bit off a small portion of its tongue. On the witness who, saw this circumstance, being asked whether the tongue had been cut out, he said, that if it was, he did not see it.Mr. Ashurst
 said, he had an opinion of the Attorney-general, which he would get published, declaring the illegality of bull-baiting.Mr. Martin
657 said, he did not rise to object to the motion of the hon. member. What precise object he sought to attain by the present bill, he could not comprehend from the hon. member's speech; but, if he thought that his former bill wanted amendment, it was only fair that he should have an opportunity of
657The Attorney General
, in reply, stated, that he had a letter from the clergyman in whose parish this bull-baiting had taken place, describing the particulars of it in the terms which he had used.Mr. Martin
677676675674673672671 said, he rose to oppose the motion, giving his hon. and learned friend, at the same time, full credit for having introduced it solely from a pure and conscientious sense of public duty. But, at the same time, after all that he had heard, he felt bound to come to a conclusion very different to that at which his hon. and learned friend had arrived. He felt that his hon. and learned friend had no right to bring into that House one grave and specific charge, and then turn round and call upon them to convict the accused party upon another. His hon. and learned friend stated, that he did not wish to proceed upon his first charge against Mr. Kenrick, but that there was another and a graver charge of which that
677676675674673672671The Attorney General
 complained of the low rate of remuneration which clerks in the Admiralty received, and also of the difficulty which the widows of assistant-surgeons experienced in procuring pensions. He meant on a future day to move for an account of all widows of assistant-surgeons who had applied for pensions between 1805 and 1809, when the new regulations were carried into effect.Sir F. Ommaney
683 said, he was surprised that the hon. member for Aberdeen should have asserted, that no reason had been assigned for the increase in the navy estimates. He begged the hon. member to recollect, that his hon. friend, in bringing those estimates forward, had stated, that the increase this year was owing to the war in India, and to the necessity which existed for keeping up a naval force in various parts of the world. The general state of the commerce of the country was such, that ministers could not withhold this force, without creating general discontent amongst the merchants. There was no part of the world in which the commerce of Great Britain was not going on at that moment; and armed ships had been sent for abroad for the purpose of protecting that commerce. It was the duty of the Admiralty to see that those vessels were properly distributed. They were obliged to send ships up the Mediterranean, where the British were likely to be attacked by the belligerents on both sides. Again, it was necessary to station vessels of war in the West-Indies; and they were likewise called for on the coast
683Sir G. Cockburn
684 complained, that on so important a vote there was not a minister
684Mr. Robertson
686 said, that the object of the amendment was not so much to negative the vote for the navy, as to put a stop to the grant of supplies generally; which, of course, the House had the power to do, though it was a power rarely exercised, and not without the statement of more cogent reasons than those urged by the hon. member for Aberdeen. So far from its being true that ministers had no regard for economy, they had evinced, from year to year, the utmost anxiety to promote it; and the time chosen by the hon. gentleman for bringing forward his amendment was not a little extraordinary, recollecting that it was upon bringing up the report of the committee whose resolutions had been agreed to unanimously. With regard to the absence of ministers, he denied that it was necessary that they should attend to listen to the often repeated recommendations of the hon. member. They had observed the most rigid economy in every department, and had carried reductions to the utmost extent. Year after year, and item by item, the navy estimates had been scrutinized with the utmost patience, and the increase of the present vote above that of 1817 had been frequently justified; so that nothing could be more absurd than to treat it as if the augmentation were en-
686Mr. Herries
 thought, that this was a fit opportunity for the exercise of that great economical check which lay in parliament. No good reason had been given for keeping up so enormous an establishment. Were they, in a time of peace and in a season of universal distress to go on voting away large and unnecessary quantities of the public money? Ought they not rather, as guardians of the public purse, when that distress was likely to be aggravated by the measure now in progress, to restore the currency, to force upon government the most rigid economy? He would vote for the amendment, and when the report of the army estimates should come up, he would oppose the reception of it, unless it was accompanied with some pledge of serious reduction on the part of ministers.Colonel Davies
 adverted to the charge, that branches of families of rank and influence were placed in the navy, in order that they might receive pensions out of the pocket of the public. How stood the fact? Any person entering the army must serve six years before he would be entitled to half-pay at all. He knew of several officers of acknowledged gallantry and merit, who, after serving thirty years or more, received a pension of about 1801. Surely these allowances were not burthen-some pensions, but limited rewards for services performed to the country.Captain Gordon
 said, "No:" his expression was, that the Admiralty presumed on the ignorance of the House.Mr. Robertson
687 begged it to be understood that he did not object to the navy estimates generally; but he could not, in the present condition of the country, approve of money being voted without the strictest necessity for it. In thus expressing himself, he trusted he should not be charged with a wish to embarrass ministers. The measures which they had brought forward this session, with the exception of the one last night, had met with his approbation; but, on that occasion, certainly, he thought it to be his duty to vote against them, inasmuch as he conceived they had departed from their own principles. With respect to the necessity of a reduction in the expenditure, he was satisfied, that throughout the country there was but one opinion, that such establishments could not be kept
687Mr. Hobhouse
689 said, that the system which had always been adopted by the Admiralty was this—that no person in the naval department should be allowed to enjoy half-pay, unless he consented to join the navy again, should his services be required. It was impossible always to act upon this system, government had been attempted to be imposed upon in more than one instance. A person who came
689Sir G. Cockburn
 seconded the amendment. The navy estimates were, he said, framed on a most inordinate scale, and he believed that the army estimates would be found still more extravagant. He would therefore divide the House with his hon. friend.Lord John Russell
 thought, that the privileges of members were sufficiently asserted in the report. He would not therefore take any further proceeding.Mr. Holford
 said, that the hon. member for Grampound attributed to the Admiralty the most perfect ignorance of the geographical situation of India.Mr. Croker
 —Well, then, it was not the Admiralty who were ignorant, they were well enough acquainted with the business; but they came down to impose upon parliament with a falsehood ["No, no," from various quarters]. Well then, a fallacy; which was, that some part of the naval force was to be employed in India. Now, he had one short fact to state, in answer to the representation of the hon. gentleman. That very morning it had fallen to his lot as secretary to the Admiralty, to receive despatches from a commander in India. That officer mentioned, that he had collected a naval force to act on the rivers of Rangoon, which he expected would be of the greatest use; and that it consisted of a greater number of men than the total increase of sailors demanded by the present vote.Mr. Croker.
 conceived that the strictest economy was necessary in all the departments of the state, and therefore he should vote for the amendment.Mr. Tremayne
 requested to know, whether Mr. Kenrick still held the situation of recorder of Dover, or whether he had been removed from it?Mr. Butterworth
, in seconding the motion, said he considered the suppression of such nuisances as that which this bill was meant to suppress, of minor consideration, compared with those scenes of outrage and brutality which attended the practice of prize-fighting. When men were hardened and brutalized, by habitually witnessing the violence and bloodshed which accompanied prize-fighting, it was impossible they could think of treating inferior animals with tenderness. He regretted that such exhibitions, instead of being denou ncedby the authorities, were in too many instances allowed to proceed, if not directly encouraged. He had reason to believe, that two years ago a prize-fight took place at Warwick, When the magistrates of that county not Only declined to interfere to prevent such a scene, but caused constables to attend it for the purpose Of preserving order. If this statement were true, nothing could be more disgraceful to those authorities. Such abominable outrages were calculated to brutalize the minds of the mass, and to render them insensible to the quantity of pain which they inflicted on inferior creatures. He trusted the hon. gentleman would turn his attention to the prize-ring, as by suppressing that source of demoralization and depravity, he would be doing more good than he could possibly expect to effect by all his acts against the ill-treatment of cattle.Mr. Butterworth
682l.,l.681l.680l.l.l.679 said, that he must oppose the naval or any other establishment being formed on so large a scale as ministers seemed inclined to propose at the present moment. They had had an opportunity of examining the whole scale on which it was intended that the military establishment should be kept up, and he was justified in saying, that no such establishment was ever thought of at any former period of peace. He therefore wished to know whether there was any prospect of a return to what might fairly be denominated a real peace establishment? At this awful moment, when distress and difficulty threatened the land in every direction—when no immediate relief appeared in view—and when thousands and tens of thousands were in a state of destitution and want, it would become his majesty's ministers to reflect a little on what they were about. He was quite sure that the estimates, so monstrous did they appear, were agreed on at a time when ministers were not aware of the real state of the country. In former times, this country maintained a very different peace establishment, both with respect to the number of men and the magnitude of the expense; and he was anxious to know what were the circumstances at the present moment which required so disproportionate an establishment, as compared with antecedent pe-
682l.,l.681l.680l.l.l.679Mr. Hume
 wished to know in what manner the decision of the House, on this subject was to be communicated to the learned baron of the Exchequer; for it was well known that printing the proceedings of that House was held to be illegal.Mr. Hume
 being the first person who had introduced the subject of officers going into the church, could not help offering a few words. He was anxious to learn what steps government would take with respect to officers entering the church. They did not seem to know how to act on the subject; for an order in council had passed taking off the half-pay of officers in holy orders, and a subsequent order had restored it to them again. He could not but consider it a hardship that in this latter order, an exception had been made with respect to marine officers. It was certainly not fair to give half-pay to one class of officers, and to take it from another. On what principle of justice or policy were officers who had served in the marines to be exempted from the benefits enjoyed by others? From all he could learn, there were but four retired marine officers who were in a situation to claim it.Mr. Hume
 would vote for the amendment, in order to compel ministers to observe the strictest economy.Mr. Wyvill
 said, he was one of those who did not like this system of legislating. If these sports were to be put down, there were sports of the higher classes which should be put down also. It was rather curious that, when the hon. member for Galway got leave to bring in a bill of this nature, he always contrived to have it passed through its stages at one or two in the morning. He would allow that one bill which the hon. member had brought in was of a beneficial nature. He gave him full credit for that bill, inasmuch as it was of his own production, and he stayed in town to put it in execution; but that bill would become a dead letter if it was not for the active interference of the hon. member; and so would all bills framed in this spirit of legislation. It was often seen that where there were public laws to avenge, there was not much private interference to protect, and the animals were worse off than before. He wished the hon. member would withdraw his bill, in order to revise it, and include in its operation some of the sports of the higher orders.Mr. R. Colborne
678 shortly replied. He said, that under all the circumstances of the case, he should not press the House to a division; but he was, at the same time, bound to declare, that his opinions remained unaltered, and that if he had the giving or refusing of judicial offices, he would not confer any situation on Mr. Kenrick, Neither had his hon. and learned friend ventured to declare, that if he had such power he should consider Mr. Kenrick a fit object of judicial nomination. It was easy to anticipate what would be the result of his motion; but he was nevertheless sure that the people of England would not consider themselves well used, if Mr. Kenrick was continued in office. He decidedly differed from the hon. and learned gentleman as to the effect of the evidence in the case; particularly as to the fact of Mr. Kenrick's having kept back the material witness at Franks's trial. He did not believe that that witness could have proved any thing more than had been proved in his absence. If the House had not been already annoyed by the length
678Mr. Denman
 said, it was not easy for the member for Dover to know any thing of the recorder of Dover, as there was no such officer. There was a high steward in Dover, the nature of whose duties was similar to that of recorder; but before a person was eligible to that situation, it was necessary that his majesty should express his approbation of it. Now Mr. Kenrick had never been nominated by his majesty.Mr. Denman
670669668667666665664663662661660659 said, he rose at a period when it was permitted him to explain, in detail, the grounds upon which the motion had been made; and he felt that it was peculiarly necessary to do so, because, in the course of the preliminary discussion, misconceptions had been betrayed by hon. members, beyond any thing which he could possibly have conceived or anticipated. He little thought that any one in that House could be ignorant that it was the duty of the two Houses of parliament to watch with jealousy the conduct of the judges; and, in case of their betraying any dereliction of duty in the administration of justice, it was their business to address his majesty to remove them from their situations. In former periods of our history, the commissions of the judges were held by a very different tenure from that by which they were held at present. The office of judge was formerly held by a commission, dependent upon the good pleasure of the Crown. They were sometimes appointed, as their commissions expressed it, during their good behaviour, quamdiu se bene gesserint. Between the reigns of James 1st and the Revolution, the former tenure prevailed, and the judges were not
670669668667666665664663662661660659Mr. Denman
 having moved the order of the day for taking into consideration the Minutes of Evidence taken on the 17th instant,Mr. Denman
658 replied, that he did not know
658Mr. Peel
650 said, he should think himself unworthy of a seat in that House if he was deterred by the apprehension of ridicule, from giving his opinion upon a question in which the morals and happiness of the country were much involved. He thought the country much indebted to the hon. member, for exposing himself in bringing forward this measure, to that species of treatment which was very unworthy on the part of those by whom it was practised. Hon. gentlemen must oppose the bill upon one of three grounds. Perhaps they did not believe the stories which the hon. gentleman told. For his own part, he did believe them, because they were published in the newspapers from time to time, and nobody contradicted them. Perhaps they thought the present laws sufficient to put down these sports. If they were, why were they not enforced? If they thought it was of any advantage to the country that these sports should take place, let them say so, and he should then know better how to answer their arguments. He thought there was a great misunderstanding about these matters. Gentlemen apprehended that they rose above vulgar prejudices and were great philosophers, because they considered the lower class of people entitled to their own amusements. Such an opinion, so far from being philosophic or philanthropic, was founded on an unworthy motive. He thought it arose, though gentlemen were not aware of it, rather from a contempt for the lower class of people. It was as much as to say, "poor creatures, let them alone; they have few amusements, let them enjoy them." It was similar to the language which, for a long period of time, was common in the colonies—"As long as they work that is all we want, let them seek their own amusements; what signifies it troubling them about morals; we don't care about these, let them take their own way." He thought these sentiments did no honour to the parties who entertained them. Let those who wished the people to be nothing more than hewers of wood, and drawers of water, entertain
650Mr. William Smith
 said, that the hon. member ought to know, that one of the first orders of the session was for the printing the votes of the House, by which its proceedings could be known. There were besides the Journals of the House in which the proceedings were recorded, and which were accessible by the public, in consequence of the permission given to parties to sell them.The Speaker
643 said, the House was aware that this very question had been referred to the consideration of a committee of privileges, which bad not yet made their report. The only answer he could give at present to the question
643The Speaker
685 defended the Admiralty from the charge of an unfair use of favour and affection in promotions. He would mention a proof of the contrary, within his own knowledge. He had taken two deserving youths by the hand, who had done themselves honour in the service; they were the sons of an officer of distinguished merit, but they were for a time over-looked. He no sooner made their case known to the Admiralty than their promotion was secured to them. From
685Sir C. Cole
 expressed his regret at the hardships which half-pay officers of the navy underwent, in consequence of their being obliged to employ themselves in other professions, owing to the inadequate provision afforded to them by government. Many of those officers had adopted other professions; some had gone into holy orders; and he could not but consider it as a great hardship that their half-pay, which they had so well earned in the service of their country, should in consequence be taken from them.Sir C. Cole
651 said, he was not disposed to treat a subject of this importance with levity. Having witnessed the good effects of a former bill of his hon. friend, he could not but vote for this measure.
651Sir John Brydges
 wished to know whether such horrible crimes could not be punished by the existing law, without an expensive process, which rendered the punishment extremely difficult.Sir Robert Wilson
690 begged the attention of the House to the conduct of his majesty's government, with respect to the commercial interests of the empire. They had sacrificed already too much to a dangerous delusion, namely, that of violating the navigation laws which hitherto protected our carrying trade all over the world, in order to found on it the new system of free trade. These regulations of commerce had not only been extended to the butter trade, but to the ports of an old rival nation in commercial transactions, the Dutch. They, however, viewing every thing which affected their interests with their ancient jealousy, no sooner perceived that England put a small duty on foreign salt, than they repealed the concessions they had made in favour of British commerce. With respect to the state of Buenos Ayres, our ministers had adopted a principle altogether foreign to the constitution of this maritime country, and permitted the import of goods of that country in ships, not only of that, but of other states. Similarly objectionable stipulations had been entered into between this country and the new states of Colombia, which must open the trade of this country to strangers; as it was notoriously the fact, that the rights of citizenship would be acquired in Colombia by a week's residence. He would have been much better satisfied had he had an op-
690Mr. Robertson
 said, he was sorry his right hon. friend, by whose advice the treaty was concluded, was not present, as he had no doubt that full information would have been afforded by him why this point had not been gained in Colombia as in Buenos Ayres. Although the government at Bogota might have been even disposed to make a more liberal concession as to toleration, still it might not follow that the populace might not have been still averse to so violent an extension of religious privileges. It was a matter of congratulation to all who had known any thing of the state of affairs antecedently in those countries to find that even so much had been gained. He could not sit down without remarking, that it was rather singular his hon. friend who spoke last should not, in his anxiety for introducing a more liberal spirit of complete toleration into Catholic states, have turned his thoughts nearer home, and suggested rather than retarded its adoption in a certain protestant country [hear! and a laugh].The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, as a member of the Committee of Foreign Trade, felt himself called on to assure the House, that nothing had been neglected on the part of the committee to secure a just reciprocity of advantages to England in the treaty before the House; nor could he believe that the same object had, for a moment, escaped the observation of that part of his majesty's ministers to whose province these commercial arrangements in strictness belonged.Mr. Irving
 begged his right hon. friend to recollect, that he had always made a distinction between granting religious toleration and granting political power.Sir R. H. Inglis
693692691"Grove nods at grove, each alley has its brother." said, he rose, not to follow the hon. member for Gram-pound in his observations on the commercial points of the Colombian treaty, which alone, as he was willing to admit, were formally and technically before the House, and as little to object to that treaty generally, but to take this opportunity of calling to the attention of the House one article in it which to him appeared to involve interests far higher than those of any commerce, and to commit the character of the country and the cause of religion. The article to which he referred was the 12th, which stipulates that the Colombians resident in England, shall be entitled to exercise their worship in public and in private with most full and ample toleration; while it stipulates that the English, resident in Colombia, shall be permitted to exercise their religion in their own houses only. In reference to the first point, he, as an Englishman, felt almost degraded, that at this day toleration should be granted to a Colombian arriving here, as if it were a new boon; as if it were in the power of the negociators to give it, or to withhold it; as if it were not almost a chemical ingredient in the air of England. But what is the reciprocal advantage obtained by England? The reciprocity, as was said in the American war, is all on one side: the English residents in Colombia are permitted to worship God in their own houses. Every other article in the treaty gives some benefit to one party, and some corresponding benefit to the other,
693692691"Grove nods at grove, each alley has its brother."Sir Robert H. Inglis
710709708707 said, that if the hon. member for the city of London anticipated from him any severe animadversions, either on the manner in which he had stated the case, on the mode in which he had described the distress, which they all knew was, unfortunately, prevailing in different parts of the country, or on his own personal conduct in bringing the question under the consideration of the House, expressing, as he had done, his altered sentiments on many important questions relative to the policy of the country, he would be greatly disappointed; because, sensible, as he was, that it was impossible the hon. member could address the House on the subject without feelings of the greatest pain, he trusted that the hon. gentleman would also do him the
710709708707The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.714713712711 said, that no man could have listened to the right hon. gentleman who had just spoken, without being fully impressed with his perfect sincerity on the present occasion; nor did he require any assurances beyond those which the right hon. gentleman himself expressed, and which a knowledge of his character fully supported, that the distress under which so large a portion of the community was suffering, produced a large share of sympathy in his mind. But in stating thus much, he must also say that the whole speech of the right hon. gentleman convinced him that the right hon. gentleman was not fully sensible of the extent and depth of the existing distresses. And on this important subject, which was one more of understanding than of feeling, he trusted the House would not be carried away by the earnestness of the manner, or the perfect good faith of the character of the right hon. gentleman. He would readily admit that it was not the business of government to interfere in any ordinary case of distress, but a case might arise (and such was the present) where the distress might be of such an extraordinary nature, and so extensive in its operation, as to render it the indispensable duty of government to step forward and attempt its alleviation. It was most unjust to attribute disasters to the improvident speculations of the whole of these merchants. He, on the part of the merchants of the country, denied the fact. He believed, upon examination, it would be found, that nearly three-fourths of the absurd schemes which were
l.l.714713712711Mr. Baring
731730729728727726725 said, he so far agreed with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, as to consider, that, as this question was to be brought before the House on a future day, when the course of their proceedings would leave them to the further expression of their opinions by a vote—it was not desirable to proceed with this discussion on the present occasion; and more especially, as there stood upon the paper, for that night, the consideration of a subject of very great interest, and connecting itself, in some degree, with many of the topics which had now been brought forward, rather irrelevantly, to be sure, in the course of this discussion; but which it would be, for the purposes of a sound discretion, quite desirable to separate from those which the House was so about to enter upon. He could not, however, suffer a part of the
731730729728727726725Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, that the conduct of ministers, and the measures introduced by them, were loudly condemned by the country. They had proved themselves unfit for their situations. The opinion and feeling of those within and without doors were, that they had reduced the country to a most helpless condition [Cries of "Question!"]. Such was his opinion of their conduct, and he would not be deterred from stating it. It was usual, when ministers found that their measures were not approved of to resign their places to those whose counsels were acceptable to the nation. Their continuance in office was an embarrassment to the king; who with other ministers, might adopt measures more applicable to the situation of the country.Mr. Robertson
 rose amidst cries of "adjourn," and "go on." The hon. member said, that at that late hour he could not hope for the attention of the House, if he were to attempt to follow in detail the many topics on which the right hon. gentleman had touched in his very able speech. He would, therefore, compress his observations into as narrow a compass as possible. Here the cries for an adjournment became very general, and the hon. member seemed unwilling to proceed, whenMr. Baring
 presented a petition from William Cobbett, expressing great alarm at the power given by the Promissory Notes bill to the Bank of England to issue small notes for a certain period, and stating that it would prevent the return to a metallic currency, unless its operations should be counteracted by other clauses. The petition also stated some instances of hardship, in consequence of the country bankers refusing to pay their notes in coin, and prayed that such bankers might be rendered liable to a distress for payment at the instance of a magistrate, upon twenty-four hours' notice. This was the only part of the petition in which he did not agree, as he thought the time too short, and that three or four days ought to be allowed. He himself knew an instance of a person, who having got possession of some Birmingham bank notes, presented them there for payment in gold. He was answered, that the notes were payable in London, and that at the place of issuing them they would only be paid in Bank of England paper. He trusted that a clause would be inserted in the bill to prevent the recurrence of those difficulties; for unless some such summary mode of enforcing payment were adopted, instead of leaving the parties to the ordinary course of law, they never could have gold in general circulation.Colonel Johnson
733 contended, that the precedent of 1793 was a very fair guide as to what the government ought to do in the present case. The Bank directors were all men of practical experience, who understood the nature of the distress better than any body else; and, as they advised the government to come forward with assistance, he was inclined to think that they were right. It was true that the recent measures of ministers had been cheered by their opponents; but those cheers ought to be looked at with some jealousy. He was one of their friends, as he generally voted with them, except when they got into their novelties. Whatever mischiefs might arise from their new doctrines of free-trade, he could not be looked upon as a particeps criminis as he had invariably opposed them.733Mr. Curteis
755754753752751750749s.s.s.d.s.s.748747746745744s.s.d.s.d.s.743742741s.l.740d.s.739738737736735734 rose, and spoke, in substance, as follows:—755754753752751750749s.s.s.d.s.s.748747746745744s.s.d.s.d.s.743742741s.l.740d.s.739738737736735734Mr. Ellice
732 concurred in all that had been said with respect to the strong claims which the unexampled pressure of the present crisis gave to the commercial world for relief. He could not understand why a measure which proved so successful in 1793, should
732Mr. Alderman Bridges
 said, that if the question before the House were confined merely to the motion of the hon. member for Coventry, there could be no difficulty in disposing of it on that night; but, as the eloquent and powerful speech of his right hon. friend had—most happily, he would say, for the country—involved the whole of the principles on which the commerce of the country was to be conducted in future, he thought it would be impossible to conclude the discussion that night. He would therefore move that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow.Mr. Canning
722 concurred in the view taken on this subject by the hon. member who had spoken last. He was as great an advocate as any man could be for adherence to principles, as long as that was practicable. But, circumstances might happen to render it necessary to lay aside for a time those principles; and such circumstances he thought prevailed at this moment. The distress had assumed such a shape, that there was no class in the community exempt from its operation. No man, whether of high or low station, could say he was secure from the general pressure. It was true that owe of the causes of this distress might be ascribed to the rash and unjustifiable speculations which had been indulged in. But the melancholy fact was, that the speculators no longer existed; they had been swept away in the general ruin; and those who remained and implored relief were not those who had thus sinned, but men of respectability, honour, and integrity, who had unfortunately become the sufferers from the operations of others. It was not, therefore; with a view of serving the speculators but others who had no connection with them that he joined in imploring relief; for there were not any classes of society—not even those who fancied themselves wholly beyond the reach of disaster of any kind—who might not be eventually dragged into the vortex of destructions, if something was not done to save those who were at present in dan-
722Mr. Holme Sumner
721720 referred to the report of the commissioners appointed in 1793, and said, that the beneficial effects which had resulted from the measures adopted under that commission, were the best arguments that could be used for its renewal upon the present occasion. He did not know for what reason the government should refuse now to do that which had then been found so satisfactory a remedy for evils of precisely the same nature as the present. The commissioners of 1793 said in their report "that its advantages were evinced by a speedy restoration of confidence in mercantile transactions, which produced a facility in raising money that leas presently felt, not only in the metropolis, but through the whole extent of Great Britain." He saw no reason why any doubt should be entertained that the same consequences would result, if the same measure were now put in practice. The commissioners further stated, that "the difficulties in which many considerable commercial houses were involved have been thus removed, and the fatal effects of those difficulties on other houses who were dependent on them have been prevented." Nor was the operation of the act less beneficial with respect to a variety of eminent manufacturers in different parts of the kingdom, who having, in a great degree, suspended their works, were enabled to resume them, and to afford employment to a number of workmen who must Otherwise have been thrown on the public for support, and perhaps, in some cases, with the loss of the manufacture. We now beard complaints, that not only those who had rashly entered into the speculations which were so universally condemned were ruined, but that they had drawn into the same distress many honest and laborious tradesmen who bad taken no part in their schemes. To obviate evils such as these, ministers were called upon to adopt an expedient, the efficacy of which had beep already satisfactorily proved. Many
721720Mr. Bright
 said, that the distress which prevailed was by no means confined to England. It had reached Scotland, and was making rapid and alarming progress there. The city of Glasgow was at that moment suffering under distress as severe and universal as any other part of the kingdom. He valued the principles upon which the government acted so highly, that nothing short of absolute necessity should induce him to sanction any departure from them. But circumstances like the present left no option, and either the issue of Exchequer-bills must be consented to by ministers, or consequences of the most disastrous nature would ensue. On the other hand, it appeared to him, that by consenting to this measure, no possible injury, or even inconvenience, could be the result. He trusted that the representations which had been made would have their weight with the right hon. gentleman, and that an acquiescence in them would dissipate that frightful train of evils which presented themselves in prospect.Mr. Monteith
719718 observed, that if the directors of the Bank of England had withheld the relief which was so urgently required, it was not because they did not know and feel the difficulties under which the country laboured. Being, as they all were, either merchants or engaged in pursuits intimately connected with the commerce of the country, they were interested (speaking merely of their pecuniary interests) in removing, if it was in their power, the present distress. The reason which had induced them not to interfere to any greater extent than they had already done, was, because they knew, by experience, that much better means than any which they could put in practice had been devised, and which, in their opinion, were altogether free from objection. He would shortly state the reasons which induced him to concur in this view of the case. In the first place, she distress had extended itself throughout the country. There was no place of importance which did not feel its full share of calamity, and in the appointment of the commission which had been so urgently, and he thought so wisely, recommended to the adoption of the House, the same method of forming it should be pursued as in that of 1793, when persons were inserted to represent every part of the kingdom. One gentleman from Scotland, who was well acquainted with the inter-
719718Mr. Pearse
 disclaimed the use of any tone by the Bank which would amount to an admonition to the government. They had merely represented, that as the mode pursued in 1793 had operated so beneficially, it would be advisable to adopt the same course now.Mr. Pearse
717716l.715 said, that in all that had been urged upon this subject, that which he took to be the most important point had been lightly touched on by his hon. friends: he meant the unprecedented nature of the distress which prevailed, and the mode which had been hitherto adopted for its relief. It was not his intention to inquire into the causes which had produced that distress—whether the panic which was its immediate cause bad solely occasioned it, or whether the clumsy contrivances which had been suggested had increased it to its present extent. This, however, was quite clear, that the House was called upon to deal with an entirely new state of things. At this juncture the chancellor of the Exchequer bad taken up the subject of the currency, and had proposed to do away with the circulation of one and two pound notes. He believed that the announcement of that intention on the part of government had had no small effect in producing the evils of which we had to complain. Was this to be renewed at some distant period? Was the House again to be occupied with debates on this subject? He hoped not. With respect, however, to the existing distress, he did not remember, nor, he believed, could any man living remember, a time of such universal pressure; Did any man recollect a period at which six London and an immense number of country bankers had broken?—when distress like that which now prevailed was felt at the same
717716l.715Mr. John Smith
763762761760d.759758757756 rose to second the motion of his hon. friend. He began by observing that he had always understood it to be desirable, that if a doubtful measure was to be discussed at all—and a doubtful measure he considered this to be—it should be discussed at a period when the tranquillity and prosperity of the country were such as to prevent the danger and risk which such a discussion might produce. That such was not the present state of the country, he believed no man would venture to deny. The greater part of our manufacturing population were under-going a degree of suffering unparalleled in our history. His hon. friend had
763762761760d.759758757756Mr. John Williams
 called the attention of the chancellor of the Exchequer particularly to this petition, since it afforded a practical proof of the necessity of the clause which he had proposed the other night, to compel the country bankers, by summary process, to pay in gold; for, unless some such provision was introduced, the excess of paper issues would be as great as ever. The bankers ought undoubtedly to lodge proper security for their notes; and it was not in the least unfair, that, upon three or four days notice, they should be compellible, by summary process, to pay them in, gold on the spot.Mr. Hume
696d.s.s.s. presented a petition from the importers of Tobacco and Snuff in the town of Belfast, praying for a reduction of the duties thereon. He could not forbear remarking, in presenting this petition, that few things could be more beneficial to the fair trader, more destructive to smuggling, or more advantageous to the revenue, than the reduction of the duties upon these articles. In order to illustrate this, it might be sufficient to refer to the state of the trade from 1810 to 1812, as compared with its condition in 1820 to 1822. In the former period, when the duty was per lb. 2696d.s.s.s.Mr. Hume
d.s. said, that in consequence of the increase of duties, the number of houses in a certain town engaged in the importation of these articles, had been reduced from eighteen to eight. He agreed, that if the duty were reduced to 1d.s.Mr. Hart Davis
706705704l.ll.l.l.703702701700699 said, he never rose with greater anxiety to address the House than on the present occasion with a petition on a subject of vital importance to the welfare of the country, seeing that the performance of this duty placed him in the situation in which he was obliged to differ much from those whom it had formerly been his pride to regard as his hon. friends; but, whatever might be the consequence—whatever might be the impression unfavourable to himself in the quarter to which he alluded—when he witnessed the distress that every where prevailed, and was called on by his constituents to discharge the duty they had imposed upon him, he felt himself bound to stand forward. He trusted, therefore, that he should experience the indulgence of the House, while he was compelled to trespass upon their attention. The House knew, that not only the city of London, but the whole mercantile world, had been suffering, for weeks and months, under
706705704l.ll.l.l.703702701700699Mr. Thomas Wilson
809808807806805s.d.s.804s.803802801s.800s.s.l.l.l.799798797796795794l.l.793***792791790789788787786785784***783l.l.782781† Laws of the Customs, by J. D. Hume, esq.***780779778777776775***774773772771770769768767766765764 rose, and spoke, in substance, as follows:—809808807806805s.d.s.804s.803802801s.800s.s.l.l.l.799798797796795794l.l.793***792791790789788787786785784***783l.l.782781† Laws of the Customs, by J. D. Hume, esq.***780779778777776775***774773772771770769768767766765764Mr. Huskisson
724723l.l.l. expressed himself in favour of an issue of Exchequer-bills under commissioners by the government. A similar measure was adopted by government in 1793 with the happiest results—the distress at that time immediately subsiding. Government then proposed to issue Exchequer-bills to the amount of 5,000,000724723l.l.l.Mr. Manning
813812811810 rose. He felt, he said, the disadvantage under which he laboured in addressing the House upon this subject, after the able and eloquent speech of his right hon. friend, the president of the Board of Trade. It was not necessary for him to state any opinion as to the
813812811810Mr. Baring
 continued: And at that very moment, though the country was in a state of perfect despair as to the return of peace, his right hon. friend, as he had just avowed, was speaking, writing, and voting, for the return to cash payments in two years. Was that, he would ask his right hon. friend, a vote which, under the same circumstances, he would give again.Mr. Baring
825824823822821s.820819818817816d.s.815s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.814—If such were the case, he would leave his right hon. friend to maintain it as he could; but any man who mixed up a little practical experience with his theory, would see the absurdity of such a position. If any gentleman wished for proof, that his right hon. friend was not a safe pilot for the vessel of the state in a time of commotion and storm, he would find it in his right hon. friend's recent declaration, that he was prepared to assert the entire maintenance of a system in time of war, to which they had compelled the Bank to return with extreme difficulty, and not with any thing like complete success, in time of peace. He had no right, therefore, to charge his right hon. friend with incon-
825824823822821s.820819818817816d.s.815s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.814Mr. Baring.
846d.d.,845d.s.844s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.d.s.s.s.d.s.843s.s.842s.d.s.s.s.841840839s.s.s.s.s.s.838837l.836s.835834833832 said, that whatever might be the opinions entertained by the hon. gentleman who had just concluded, relative to the measures proposed by his right hon. friend, or his sentiments with respect to the political economists, every body in that House must unite with him in a feeling of respect for the language that had been held by the hon. gentleman himself on this and on former nights. He agreed also with that, hon. gentleman that they should approach with respect and sympathy the case of the individual persons who came before the House that night, because they came before it as petitioners, and still more because of the respectable and orderly conduct which those petitioners had always observed under circumstances of similar affliction. The respect also that he felt for the master manufacturers would lead him to treat those persons on this occasion, as well as on all others, with that respect and attention which they merited. The situation of the working classes, to which he had alluded, was such as demanded the sympathy of every man; and however convinced they who thought with him (Mr. Grant) might be, of the expediency of persevering in that course upon which the government had entered, and of opposing the proposition of the hon. member for Coventry, they would feel some degree of natural reluctance, in knowing that they must encounter the opposition of the feelings, and prejudices of those who, with the best intentions, were nevertheless extremely misinformed and mistaken on these subjects. He had listened with a great deal of attention to the speech of the hon. member for Taunton, who had objected to the speech of his right hon. friend, because it had gone into a variety
846d.d.,845d.s.844s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.d.s.s.s.d.s.843s.s.842s.d.s.s.s.841840839s.s.s.s.s.s.838837l.836s.835834833832Mr. Charles Grant
847 rose to support the motion. The right hon. gentleman who spoke last had, he said, observed that the manufacturers were to blame for the excessive speculations into which they had entered. It appeared to him, however, that it was not the manufacturers who were to blame, but that they had been led into these speculations by the measures of government. It was his opinion that the excellence of silk was an affair of colour, and that superior colours could be produced only in Lyons: from whatever cause it might arise, whether from some peculiarity in the atmosphere, or the water, he would not pretend to say. It was in vain to hope that we could enter into any commercial regulations with France that would place us on a footing of reciprocity. That country was almost exclusively agricultural. He wished to keep her merchants and manufacturers where they were, and was not disposed to make any sacrifices for their encouragement. He greatly feared that this country was borne away by a spirit of visionary speculation, which had led it, and would continue to lead it into much inconvenience. One year it was Mr. Owen's plan; another year there was no such thing as contagion; and the next, Mr. M'Culloch would persuade them that Ireland suffered nothing from the number of her absentees. In 1822 and 1823 the complaint was agricultural distress. Now, they were told of commercial and manufacturing distress, and the evils occasioned by the fluctuations of the currency. If they persevered in the commercial system they had entered upon, without first inquiring into all its bearings and probable results,
847Mr. Dickenson
 observed, that many petitions had been laid on the table from the towns of Macclesfield, Congleton, and other places in the county which he represented, to the contents of which he called the serious attention of the House. The distress was exceedingly great; and he implored ministers, before they threw out of employment so many thousands of poor persons, to examine their complaints. All he asked was, to allow the petitioners to go before a committee; and if they did not make out such a case as would justify government in abandoning their measures, he would no longer support their claim.Mr. Egerton
 wished to say a few words in explanation of the grounds on which he meant to give his vote that evening. At a meeting which had recently taken place, he had stated to his hon. friend (Mr. Ellice), that he felt inclined to support his motion for a committee, and would do so, unless something cogent was advanced which should induce him to change his mind. He had, in consequence, come down to the House last night, and heard what his hon. friend had said in support of the motion. He was then of opinion, that the committee ought to be granted. But, he would ask of the House, whether a speech had not been subsequently delivered, which proved to demonstration, that he was wrong in the opinion he had thus hastily formed? He had heard the speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson), which had made a very great impression on his mind, and he regretted that his memory was not sufficiently capacious to retain every sentence of it. He would not weaken the effect of that speech by alluding to the important topics which it embraced. He could assure the hon. mover, that if the going into a committee would be likely to do even a trifling good to those deserving individuals whose case he had so ably advocated, he would cheerfully vote with him; but, feeling that this would not be the case—conceiving that, so far from doing good, it would effect much harm, by holding out fallacious hopes to those individuals, he must oppose the proposition. He hoped his hon. friend would believe that he acted from conscientious motives; and that, in giving this vote, he felt that he was consulting the best interests of the country,Mr. Palmer
857856855854853852 rose, amidst cries of "Question!" but was loudly cheered as he presented himself to the House. He proceeded nearly as follows:—Sir, after the direct appeal made to me by the hon. member for Coventry; after the appeal also made to me by another hon. member, I do feel it necessary, before the debate closes, to state to the House fairly, and as shortly as I can, the views and opinions which I entertain upon the present question. On the one hand, I am sure the House will believe that I cannot feel disposed to enter at large into a subject which has been already so fully discussed, and has, I may say, been disposed of so much to the satisfaction of this House and the country; to the satisfaction, at least, of those who had before approved of the principles on which his majesty's government have acted, and to the conviction of others, who, doubting the soundness of those principles, found their doubts set at rest by the powerful and unanswerable speech of my right hon. friend. As, I say, the House, on the one hand, will not suspect me of having the bad taste, after his luminous exposition, to intrude on their time, by discussing the whole of this vast subject;—on the other hand, it would feel that I did not do my duty by the House, by the country, or by my right hon. friend, if, leaving to him the whole weight of the debate, I omitted to claim for myself a full participation in the responsibility incurred by the introduction of those measures which he has so successfully explained and defended. It is for this purpose, then, that I now present myself to the House; and I do so because I have witnessed for the last six months—I might, perhaps, say, during a lodger period, but principally for the last six months—the diligent, the systematic attacks made upon the plans and measures, as well as upon the public character, of my right hon. friend; attacks made, no doubt, with the cherished hope that they would prove injurious to his fame, and subversive of the sound commercial principles which he has so long and so anxiously exerted himself to introduce and establish. I agree with the hon. gentleman who has spoken to-night for the first time, and spoken in a manner which gives promise of the ability with which he will hereafter fill the station to which he has been called; I agree with him, that if there were any prospect that, by consenting to go into the committee for which the hon. gentle-
857856855854853852Mr. Secretary Canning
829828827826—Then, if his right hon. friend had seen the men, he wondered still more that he had expressed himself so decidedly on the subject. The case had been stated to him by persons of whose veracity he had not the slightest doubt, and from their relation it appeared, that they were silk-manufacturers in London, and that an informer came to them telling them that there was a large quantity of smuggled goods in a French house newly established. This man had been long employed as an informer for the Custom-house. They immediately sent to the Custom-house on the subject, and the answer which they received was, that the Frenchmen were privileged by the government, and that orders had been received at the Custom-house not to take cognizance of any information of this kind. Upon further inquiry, it turned out that this French [house had made application to the government, and, representing that great benefit would result from their trying the experiment of introducing their own method of manufacturing silk, had obtained permission to transport their stock hither free from duty. The silk
829828827826Mr. Baring.
 addressed the House on the subject of his intended motion, that the country banks should have the same privilege of issuing small notes until the 10th of October, as that granted to the Bank of England. He felt convinced that the arbitrary power given to the Bank of England would produce much mischief. In distant parts of the country there would exist a disinclination to take Bank of England notes; and unless government permitted the country banks to continue their issues of small notes, a stagnation in public trade and confidence must be the consequence. Under these circumstances, he trusted the right hon. gentleman would be convinced of the impropriety of running down the country banks. There could be no doubt that many of the stoppages which had lately occurred were to be attributed to the measures proposed by government. The country bankers wished as much as any other class, to get rid of the small-note circulation, and a metallic currency. He could assure the right hon. gentleman that his measure had contributed to revive the panic. He had seen a communication from an eminent banker in the north, which asserted this fact. The consequence, was, that he, in common with others, had written up for a large remittance of specie.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that the permission given to the Bank being to meet a specific contingency, there was no probability that they would issue more notes than were necessary to meet that contingency. The clause for the Bank to furnish accounts of their issues, and the notoriety to be given to the whole proceeding was, he thought, a security against an improper use of the power.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
861l. said, it was important that the country should know not only the amount of the small notes but also the whole amount of all issues of the Bank, large and small, since the preceding month. It appeared, by the paper before the House, that in seven days the paper issues of the Bank had increased by 6,000,000861l.Mr. Maberly
 could not see any necessity why the Bank, as a matter of course, should be obliged to publish monthly accounts of all their issues. Of the amount of their small notes in circulation, it might be desirable that there should be a monthly return, in order that a check might be provided against over-issue. If circumstances required that the whole amount of the Bank paper in circulation should at any time be made public, there would be no objection to such a return.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as there was a clause in the bill requiring the Bank to furnish an account of the amount of the small notes issued by them, it could not be contended that it was foreign to the object of the bill to propose the amendment of that clause, by requiring an account of the amount of all the notes issued by the Bank. He was sure it would be found most beneficial, not merely to the Bank, but to the public, that such an account should be furnished, and it was a more delicate mode of proceeding towards the Bank, that it should be effected by a clause in the present bill, than by a separate enactment.Mr. Calcraft
 said, the very opposition of the Bank and government to this amendment would induce him to press it. As the Bank made large profits by the monopoly, they were bound to give every information to the public by which those profits might be ascertained. What had been observed by an hon. member as to a quantity of Bank notes being looked up in the coffers of the bankers, afforded no argument against the motion; because those notes might, at any moment, be brought out, and gold demanded for them. The Bank had, on several occasions, acted with great impolicy; for when the exchanges were against them, they had not contracted their issues. Now, if their issues were published, the country would be aware of such imprudence on the part of the Bank. It was not necessary that the exchanges should be greatly against us to cause the Bank to be drained of its gold. One half per cent would be sufficient to effect this; and the House would be convinced of this when they reflected, that the insurance on gold to Paris was only a quarter, per cent.Mr. Maberly
 said, that although he had opposed this bill, he conceived that if it was to pass, it was better that it should pass without delay. As this bill gave the Bank the privilege of issuing small notes, it might be proper that they should-furnish an account of the issues of such notes; but as the Bank derived no privilege from it as to its other issues, there, was no reason why it should be required to furnish any account respecting them. The Bank might as well be called upon for an account of their discounts.Alderman Thompson
l.l.l.864 said, that it was his intention to propose that country bankers should also furnish an account of their issues. Such account would afford greater security against their failure than any other
l.l.l.864Mr. Hobhouse
 hoped the bill would be permitted to go through its present stage that evening; as there would be two more opportunities afforded for hon. gentlemen to propose amendments to it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
858 said, that although the right hon. gentleman seemed, as well as many others who had preceded him, to take an erroneous view of the subject of debate, by entering into a defence of the commercial policy of the country generally, instead of confining himself to the particular question before the House, still he was willing to admit, that his majesty's ministers had not only pursued the rational line of policy, but were as much alive to the distresses of the country as any of those who heard him. He was sure that many of those who spoke most loudly, did not feel half as deeply for those distresses as his majesty's ministers. While he sympathised with the petitioners, and he did so most sincerely, he could not think that their situation would be bettered by acceding to the motion of his hon. friend. The alteration made by ministers in the commercial policy of the country had been the result of calm
858Lord John Russell
831l. hoped the House would not be deterred from doing what it might feel to be its duty, by any apprehension of liability to the charge of inconsistency. By adopting the measure of inquiry, hundreds of thousands of their fellow-creatures might be saved from ruin. He lived in the neighbourhood of those classes, and could vouch, without meaning to say any thing disrespectful as to the new measures that had been pursued by ministers in relation to the silk and other trades, that previously, the silk trade was going on progressively improving, and spreading itself into every county in that part of the kingdom. The fact was, that there were but two classes of persons that could be benefitted by these changes; namely, the foreign manufacturer and the smuggler on our coasts. At the former period to which he alluded, the silk-trade produced to government about 500,000831l.Mr. Davenport
, amidst cries of "question!" proceeded to reply. He disclaimed the grounds on which some of its supporters had put his motion, and declared that he had not brought it forward with a view to the internal prohibition of foreign silk. He had no hope, after the statements made by the right hon. gentleman, that he should get the House to accede to his motion; but he thought it due to the petitioners, to take the sense of the House upon it, that the people might know their determination; for the sooner that question was put to rest, the better. He would not have asked for a committee, but that he hoped for some advantage to the petitioners, and he wished to obtain the opinion of the House, that the masters might from it be induced to take confidence, and put their men into employment. If the mere abstract principle of liberality was to be followed, it was not the silk-trade alone, but every branch of the manufactures of the country, that must be sacrificed. The woollen manufactures of Germany were fast approaching towards a successful rivalry with our own, and our colonies in North America were at that moment supplied with nails, not from Birmingham, but from the United States. The most active competition was employed against us in all the corners of the world; and the right hon. gentleman ought not to persevere in carrying on the application of his principles of free trade in manufactures, unless he was prepared to go further, and to annihilate that worst of all restrictions—a restriction in the trade of corn. He had heard with pleasure of the intention of ministers to reduce the duties on dyeing stuffs, and on soap; the latter of which was not only much used in the silk manufacture, but was positively a common necessary of life. The duty on that article was the worst duty paid to government, not only with respect to itself, but the mode of its collection. It cost more in collecting than any other, and was the most oppressive and vexatious, by the restrictions which were, in consequence, imposed on the manufacture.Mr. Ellice
863 could not see how the amendment of the hon. gentleman could, with any propriety, form part of the bill before the committee, to the objects of which it appeared to bear no relation. At the same time, he entirely agreed with him, that it would be of great public advantage, that the Bank should, from period to period, make the amount of their issues known to the public. As to the increased amount of Bank notes issued within the last two months, he
863Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, that the amount of paper in circulation could riot be accurately ascertained, unless the country bankers, as well as the Bank of England, were required to give an account of the amount of their issues. He hoped therefore that the hon. member would persevere in his intention.Mr. Monck
 thought it might be convenient that the extent of accommodation which the public required as to small notes should be, from time to time, made known, though it might be of pernicious consequence that the whole amount of Bank issues should be published. Peculiar circumstances might occasionally make it prudent for the Bank to increase or contract their issues to a very great extent, and if the public were made acquainted with the mere fact of such increase or contraction without at the same time being told the particular reasons for it, a considerable degree of alarm would be created thereby.Mr. Pearse
848 said, he had listened attentively to all the arguments on both sides, and he could not say that his hon. Friend, the member for Coventry, appeared to him to have made out sufficient ground for going into a committee. The real question before the House was, whether they were now, after all they had done, to renew the system of prohibition. His hon. friend who spoke last, appeared to have fallen into a material error in saying that French silks could not be admitted into this country at a duty of 30 per cent without certain ruin to the English manufacturer. The fact was, that French silks to any amount, did now easily find their way here; so that the manufacturer could not be worse off under the proposed change. He would appeal to any of the lords of the Admiralty, whether the most that Gould he effected by the blockade system, was not to keep out spirits; what were called dry goods, such as silks, it was impossible to keep out, with all the vigilance that could be exercised. He doubted the peculiar effect which the hon. member attributed to the water of Lyons. The slightest reference to history was sufficient to show that commercial improvement in all times had been opposed by those who thought their interests attacked by it, just as vehemently as the change now proposed was. He wished to refer -them to a speech delivered some years ago by sir T. Egerton. It was upon an occasion when lord Newhaven came down and made a pathetic appeal to the House, respecting the miserable state in which Ireland was placed, and moved for a committee to inquire into the evils which she suffered, and the effectual way of removing them by granting her an import trade. Sir T. Egerton deprecated the measure, and said, that if the importation of cotton into Ireland were once permitted, there was an end to the prosperity of England, and that the people of Manchester in particular would be completely ruined. Lord North followed sir T. Egerton on the same side. Mr. Burke endeavoured to point out the folly of such an apprehension; but his efforts were vain, and the committee was refused. He heard with much surprise from his hon. friend, that France was almost exclusively an
848Mr. Warre
 said, he felt completely at a loss to comprehend the state of the law as it existed with regard to the currency. He had read with much attention all the acts repealing the Bank restriction, and he freely confessed that he could not understand them. It appeared to him that it would be advisable to repeal all those acts, and to bring in a single bill, which should embody the whole law for the regulation of the currency. It would remove all doubts, save much time and trouble, and bring matters to a speedy and safe conclusion. Let the principle of the Jury bill be adopted in the present instance, and all previous acts be repealed which tended only to perplex and embarrass the law. If this suggestion of his were adopted, the House would stop short in its present proceedings, and introduce such alterations in their measures as he was convinced would be found simple and useful.Mr. Hume
 said, it would be very improper that this bill should be hurried through the committee at that late hour. He would therefore move, that the chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.Mr. Hume
 expressed his determination to continue dividing the committee as often as it was attempted to proceed. The chancellor of the Exchequer consented to the adjournment; and the chairman reported progress, and asked leave to sit again on Monday.Mr. Hume
 thought it would answer little purpose to have an account of the small notes issued, unless we had an account of the large notes also. Neither in France, America, nor in any other country, was there any secresy or mystery of this kind.Mr. Hume
850849 said, he did not mean to introduce to the House any calculations on this occasion. It was his intention to argue the question on great national principles, having reference to popular rights and popular industry, without any calculations whatever. He would offer nothing to their consideration which he could not prove. Why did not ministers go to the proof? Why did they hot permit the petitions to go to a committee? If a committee were granted, there was not a point on which his hon. colleague had touched, which he had not pledged himself to substantiate. If ministers would not meet the petitioners in that way, was it not an acknowledgment that they could not contend with the facts? He listened with attention to the long speechr—(a speech that occupied two hours and ten minutes by the house clock)—which had been delivered by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson) last night; and he must say, that the right hon. gentleman had not touched on the misery and distress as he ought to have done, although be acknowledged that much misery and distress existed. This struck him so forcibly, that he was two or three times on the point of
850849Mr. Peter Moore
 said, he had seen the men.Mr. Huskisson
—Entirely.Mr. Huskisson.
—Yes, whether in war or in peace.Mr. Huskisson.
862l. observed, that the House might as well call for the publication of all the other proceedings of the Bank, as for the account now moved for. He, and all those who took the same view of this question had always contended, that the amount of the Bank notes in circulation was not a fair criterion of their being in excess, and the very fact alluded to was a proof of this; because if they saw the Bank circulation increased by 6,000,000862l.Mr. Huskisson
830 was quite aware, that he had no right to say one word, at present, except for the purpose of explanation, and in order to set himself right with the House on a point of some importance. With regard to what his hon. friend had stated respecting the French case, he thought it necessary to offer a few words in vindication, he might almost say, of his veracity. He now stated to his hon. friend, that he had never previously seen M. de Pouillet; that he knew nothing of him; and never had communicated with
830Mr. Huskisson
 said, he would support any measure which would be of service to the country bankers. He was confident that the removal of their notes would be of great inconvenience to the country, and would agree to the amendment of his hon. friend. As the bill stood, what was to prevent the Bank of England from stamping a hundred million of these notes before the 10th of October, and put them in circulation?Sir J. Wrottesley
 said, that the object was, to obviate the danger of a suddenly increased or diminished issue of notes of all kinds, and he could not imagine in what way the publication could be injurious to the Bank.Lord Althorp
 bore testimony to the general utility of the bill.Mr. Alderman Wood
883882 said, he should be inclined, on principle, to object to the introduction of any amendments to the effect of those proposed by the hon. member into the present bill; for this bill was of a mere temporary nature, and it would be a very inconvenient, not to say a very clumsy, mode of proceeding, to introduce, into it measures
883882The Chancellor of the Exchequer
886885 said, he was anxious to address a few words to the House, in consequence of an observation of the chancellor of the Exchequer; namely, that it would be inconsistent in any hon. member, who had supported the former measure of the government, now to give his assent to the proposition of his hon. friend. He was one of those who had supported the government on that occasion, and he had seen nothing since to induce him to regret that vote. He was sorry that ministers had departed from the correct principle which they had carried so triumphantly through the House; and it was on account of the ministers that he lamented the departure, not on his own. He was one of the minority of twenty-four who went out on that question of principle; and, therefore, he could not see how he was open to the charge of inconsistency in now voting with his hon. friend. Unless something was done to strike at the root of the present banking system, the country would be exposed to the constant recurrence of those evils under which it now suffered, and which it was impossible to say how long might continue. He denied that there would be any interference with the employment of capital. The instruction would only impose a wholesome restraint on the manufactures of the coin of the country. Why, the Bank of England itself gave security for the amount of their issues. Why? Because it traded in the coin of the country. For the same reason we had a right to demand of country bankers a deposit of capital to a certain extent, as a guarantee to the public that they should not throw the community into such a disastrous state as it had lately been involved in. The real cause of the present calamity might be traced to the
886885Mr. Hobhouse
l.l.890l.;l.,, from some details furnished by the late earl of Liverpool, argued, that taking a comparative estimate of the total of our currency and of the population of England and Wales in 1774, and the present population of all Great Britain and Ireland, and the additional amount of uniform currency now demanded for Scotland and Ireland, in which countries their own monies formerly circulated, we should want, in the present year 1826, a currency double what it was in 1774; that, whereas, in 1774, it was in all about 28,000,000l.l.890l.;l.,Mr. Robertson
 said, he thought his hon. friend had not applied his usual discrimination to this subject, and that the amendment which he had proposed would fail to do any possible good, while it might produce serious evil. The security which he proposed must be an incomplete one, because, although it would protect the holders of the notes, the persons depositing their money with the bankers would be left without any security whatever. He thought also, that as the amendment went, in effect, to produce a great alteration in the law of the land between debtor and creditor, he ought to propose it in a substantive shape, when it might be discussed upon its own merits. He trusted, therefore, that his hon. friend would withdraw his motion, and bring it forward at some future opportunity.Mr. Maberly
 observed, that at the time of the last adjournment, the committee had been occupied in the discussion of a proposition of the hon. member for Abingdon, with respect to a regular publication of the issues of the Bank of England. He had stated then, that although he was not an enemy to publicity in the transactions of the Bank, he did not conceive that there were the same reasons for demanding a compulsory statement of all its issues, as there were for requiring an account of the circulation of small notes. The House, he admitted, might exercise its power in requiring the amount of issues for a particular purpose; but as a general rule, it was his opinion, that it would lead to serious inconveniencies. He had then stated his objections to the hon. member's motion, to be founded on these grounds; and he begged now to say, that his judgment remained unaltered. It would therefore be better that the subject should now be taken up at the point where it had been broken off.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
895894 expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should oppose a proposition so little liable to objection. He need not remind the right hon. gentleman and the committee, how materially the whole transactions of the country were affected by the issues of the Bank of England, and there was nothing in his opinion so likely to prevent any ill consequences from their operation, as the knowledge of the full length to which their issues extended. The right hon. gentleman seemed to consider that knowledge of very little consequence; but in truth it was more material than gentlemen were fully aw are of. Government denied that they interfered with the Bank of England; but without going to inquire whether they did or did not, he would say that in a case like the present, it was their duty, as ministers of the Crown, to interfere for the protection of the country. Without the publication he called for, they never could be secure against the fluctuations produced from the
895894Mr. Maberly
 said, it was not because the Bank felt reluctant to give this account that he opposed the amendment, but because it appeared to him extremely objectionable. In the first place, it had nothing to do with the measure now before the House. Nothing was proposed by that measure, but to regulate the Issues of one and two pound notes. If the amendment should be introduced, there was no subject relating to the Bank of England that might not, with equal propriety, be engrafted upon it. There was another objection to it which he thought even stronger than this. The actual amount of notes in circulation was never any criterion either of the superabundance or deficiency of money; and be could conceive nothing more likely to produce confusion than the publication of such amount. It would, perhaps, gratify the curiosity of the hon. member; but it could produce no good effect. Suppose it should appear by the monthly account, that a large issue of Bank-notes had taken place, and at the same time, from some Other cause wholly unconnected with that, a fall had happened in the rate of exchanges, the inference would undoubtedly be, that the one was the cause of the other, and the greatest alarm and inconvenience would immediately be experienced. There were many other objections; but he mentioned this alone as sufficient, in his opinion, to show the inexpediency of the amendment.Mr. Herries
896 supported the amendment, which he thought was calculated to be Useful to the public, and could do no
896Mr. Calcraft
897 said, the hon. member seemed to assume that the House called, as of course, for the return from the Bank every year. The hon. member was mistaken. During the period of the Bank restriction, the House did call for such returns, and they were made; but that was under a clause in the Restriction act for that purpose, and when the act was repealed, the practice was at an end. He had always stated that when circumstances made it expedient to have such a return, the House ought to call for it. He adhered to that principle, and was content to be bound by it on all occasions, when the circumstances should be proved to exist. He, however, objected strenuously to compelling the Bank to make such an account, periodically, because it was an interference which could not be justified but by necessity, and which would tend to mislead much rather than to inform all who might inspect those accounts. His hon. friend had just put a case in which great inconvenience might arise. Suppose the converse of that case to happen, and a rise in the exchange to appear to be the result of the Bank issues, instead of the alarm which the other circumstances would occasion, a confidence as unfounded, and in the end much more mischievous, would immediately be created, and the distresses under which the country was now unhappily labouring would be renewed. But then the hon. member for Wareham said, that if the plan was good with regard to the one and two pound notes, it must also be good as to the greater circulation of the Bank. But, these two things were in themselves entirely different. The regulation was applied to the one and two pound notes, because the Bank was per-
897The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared himself to be a friend to publicity, and said that if his hon. friend pressed the motion to a division, he would vote for it.Mr. Grenfell
 thought that there was much in this suggestion of the hon. gentleman, and that there would be no necessity for the amendment, if the Bank would undertake to publish in the Gazette monthly accounts of their notes issued. The conduct of the Bank amounted to restriction, in fact; for instead of paying their larger notes in sovereigns, they paid in one and two pound notes. What was this, but a restriction of cash payments. He wished the hon. director would state whether the Bank were disposed to consent to publish a periodical account of their issues.Mr. Calcraft
l.l; differed from the hon. member who spoke last, in the view which he took of the question. The most erroneous inferences might have been drawn from the accounts of the issues of the Bank about the period of 1797. The average amount of the Bank of England circulation for two or three years previous to 1797 was 11,000,000l.l;Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he could not vote for the amendment, not because he did not wish for publicity, but because by so doing it would appear as if he recognized the principle, that the Bank directors were acting as trustees for the benefit of the public, instead of for the benefit of those who elected them to their offices. He was not aware of any inconvenience that might arise from the disclosure required; but, although he would be glad to see such a course adopted by the Bank, he was unwilling to introduce it as a clause into the present bill. He would recommend his hon. friend to withdraw it.Mr. Abercromby
900l.l. said, he considered the check which it was the object of his amendment to impose upon the directors, indispensably necessary. The Bank had departed from all the true principles of banking, as appeared from their own statements. When he spoke of the statements of the Bank, he did not allude to any public document, but to those detached portions of information, which, from time to time, escaped from gentlemen connected with the Bank. It was admitted that the Bank had contracted to pay 13,000,000900l.l.Mr. Maberly
 observed, that the question suggested by the hon. member for Abingdon did not require the committee to go into these details. The hon. member wished simply for the whole amount of the Bank issues; it was therefore unnecessary to go into details.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he would not press the amendment to a division.Mr. Maberly
903 said, that the purport of this bill was to replace the currency in the state it was in prior to the Bank Restriction act, at which period no clause like this existed, nor was there any such compulsory mode of proceeding. He thought the proposal liable to serious objection, and that it would be almost impossible for country bankers to carry on business if it were adopted. It was no justification of the proposal to ground it upon antecedent measures. Creditors of a country banker holding promissory notes would by this means have a better hold upon him than other
903The Chancellor of the Exchequer
904 said, the hon. member charged the country bankers with putting gold out of circulation, and substituting trash of paper in its place. Now, in 1797, country bankers had no more to do with issuing notes than the rest of the king's subjects. The gold was sent out of the country by government to defray the expenses of the war, and one-pound notes were then issued at the recommendation of Mr. Pitt; and, in 1822, they were again allowed to be issued with the unanimous concurrence of the House. During all this period, so far were the country bankers from being abused, that they were lauded as of great benefit to
904Mr. Alderman Heygate
906 said, that when this question was brought under discussion last session, on the occasion of a petition being presented by the hon. member for Montrose, from a person in Bristol, complaining that he had been refused gold for notes, he then entertained the opinion, that a summary process would be most expedient on account of the deficiency of security to the holders of one-pound notes. But the circumstances of the country were now essentially different. When the question was then discussed, the country was inundated with country notes, many of which were now swept away. The principle upon which there was an extension of time in the original measure was to prevent the too rapid contraction of the issues. To guard against this danger he supported that measure. The clause of his hon. friend would, he thought, increase that rapidity, and there-
906Mr. Abercromby
 said, that if he was disorderly, he begged pardon; but he would ask whether the hon. member was entitled to say, when there were bankers of great opulence and respectability sitting in the House, "I expect every solvent banker will vote with me." If that was not disorder, he did not know what disorder was. It followed that if those persons did not vote with the hon. member, they were to be published as insolvent. Such language was indecent.Mr. Martin
 thought the House ought not to be involved in a discussion on this subject. The hon. member would perhaps be willing to admit that the use of the word "solvent" was not quite proper. He was sure he would say it to save the House from a squabble.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
908 said, that this clause would imply an injurious degree of suspicion, and throw unnecessary discredit on the country banks. There was a good deal of difference in the situation in which they now stood from that in which they were in last year respecting this part of the currency. Then it was expected that the small notes were to continue for a considerable period; and if the system were to be continued, it might be advisable to consider the propriety of adopting some such remedy as the one now proposed, to remedy the evil now complained of. But what had the House resolved to do? Not that the small-note system should continue, but that it should altogether be put an end to in three years. The measure was to facilitate the return to cask payments, and to decrease the inconveniences that might result from the suddenness of the measure. It was at first imagined that inconvenience would result from suddenly contracting the issues of small country notes. He thought such would not be the case, but he had found that inconveniences would result from a sudden contraction of the currency, and therefore had they been obliged to remedy this evil by substituting, for an extended period, the Bank of England small notes.
908Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, he had not been aware that there were such things as notes not payable at the place of issue. There were none such, he could take upon himself to state, current in the north.Sir W. Ridley
 said, that the notes issued by the branches of the Bank of Ireland were all made payable only in Dublin.Mr. S. Rice
911 said, that his majesty's ministers had throughout acted, with respect to this measure, in the greatest degree of ignorance of the actual state of the country, and the nature and operation1 of its currency. They had at one moment rejected a measure proposed to them, and in twenty-four hours after, and under precisely the same circumstances, they had come down and themselves proposed the adoption of that very measure. The right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs had told them, on the authority of another
911Mr. Attwood
 was satisfied the hon. member for Montrose had no doubt of the solvency of all those banks whose notes he had so ostentatiously displayed. The hon. gentleman had shown his confidence in the notes, by keeping them in his possession; and no doubt he entertained a sanguine hope that now they had anwered the purposes of his speech, they would not be refused payment.Mr. Calcraft
912 said, that the hon. member for Calling ton had reproached ministers with having acted without consulting practical men. He could assure that hon. gentleman, that they had consulted those whom they considered best informed upon the subject, and had done their best to procure the necessary information. The hon. member had complained also, that ministers had ill-treated country bankers, and had imputed to them an attempt to thwart the measures of government by suddenly narrowing their issues. They had not directly made that charge before; but if the hon. member would have it out, he now asserted that the country bankers had, by suddenly narrowing their issues, endeavoured to defeat the measure now before the com-
912Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, that nothing could more clearly show the gross ignorance of his majesty's ministers, of the real state of the circulation, than what had just fallen from the right hon. Secretary, relative to country bankers. His observation was utterly at variance with their credit and character, and he was quite sure the country would think so as soon as the expression used by the right hon. gentleman found its way abroad. He would venture to say, that a degree of ignorance, almost incredible, prevailed amongst those who ought to be acquainted with the real state of the country. He did not pretend to say that, in some of the country banking establishments, an erroneous system might not have been pursued; but he denied that this was the general character of the banking system throughout the country. After what had been stated by the hon. member for Leicester, he begged to withdraw what he had said of the midland banks, as far as regarded the banks of that district.Mr. Attwood
914 said, that if a disposition to contract their circulation had been observable amongst the country bankers, it had not arisen from a wish to
914Mr. Alderman Heygate
913 said, he was bound to enter his protest against the imputations which the right hon. Foreign Secretary had cast upon the country bankers, and to say that he defied the right hon. gentleman to prove his assertion, or to show that there had been the slightest combination among them for the purpose of withdrawing their notes. That the notes had been withdrawn was the fault of ministers themselves. They had cried them down when they were the main, and almost the only currency of the country; and the consequence was, that the bankers
913Mr. Calcraft
 did not mean to say that some arrangement of this kind might not hereafter be advisable, but he felt considerable objection to the adoption of such a proposition now. If such a motion was agreed to, it would be leading to surmise and speculation with respect to particular banks, and such surmise and speculation would probably lead to disastrous consequences. He therefore hoped the hon. member would not press it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed the proposition. It appeared, that some gentlemen thought the chancellor of the Exchequer had not done sufficient to injure the country bankers, and came forward, in consequence, to assist him.Mr. Rickford
 could not conceive any principle, in law or equity, which could bear out the hon. member in giving, a preference to one set of creditors over another. Where was this preference, if once allowed, to stop?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, unless the clause was adopted, the poorer classes would have no means of recovering payment for their notes but by an action at law, which was leaving them without any remedy.Colonel Johnson
 could understand very well how the noble lord could object to the clause, objecting as he did to the bill altogether, but he was at a loss to understand how those who had introduced the bill could object to a clause calculated to ensure its effect.Lord A. Hamilton
l. observed, that the bill itself was a compulsory measure to force the payment of gold instead of paper. It had been argued, on a former occasion, by the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and the President of the Board of Trade, that, according to the state of the law, the bankers were bound to pay on demand; but was it not a mockery to oblige men to bring an action at law to compel them? The amendment, let it be remembered, was not proposed to extend beyond notes under 5l.Lord A. Hamilton
884 said, he was of opinion that government would have acted more wisely if it had let the subject rest, till the arrival of quieter times; though he thought they had amended this bill considerably by extending the time during which the Bank of England was to have the power of issuing small notes. The sooner these discussions were ended, the better it would be for the country; for the alarm which they occasioned was inconceiva-
884Mr. Sykes
 said, that the suggestion for making the country notes payable both in London and in the country, would impose the greatest hardship upon the bankers. Not only would the country bankers be under the necessity of providing double deposits, but their notes would no longer form part of the local circulation of their districts. He felt convinced that the country bankers were incapable of yielding to the impulse of such a principle as that imputed to them.Mr. Sykes
 was afraid of the difficulties which would be opposed to the suggestion of the hon. member. At the same time, he would be disposed to adopt any practicable course to make the measure effectual.Mr. Bright
878 said, that great evils had arisen from the difficulty complained of, which ended, in many instances, in a total loss of the property to all the creditors. The object of the bill which he had introduced, was to cause the agreement of the majority of the creditors to be binding on the others. Since the bill was introduced, he had received several communications, which showed the immense losses which had accrued from the want of such a measure. These losses fell with great
878Mr. Bright
 said, he differed from the hon. and learned gentleman in considering the present proposition as tending to force the one-pound notes more rapidly out of circulation, by diminishing their credit. On the contrary, he was inclined to think that the certainty of obtaining the value of them in a summary manner would tend to maintain the public confidence in that species of circulation. In Scotland the process for recovering all small debts under eight pounds was extremely summary, and not very dissimilar from that provided by the clause in question, with regard to one-pound notes; and he believed that the facility with which debts could be recovered in Scotland, contributed to maintain the credit of bankers notes in that country. If, therefore, he was not to vote for the proposition of the hon. member, it could only be on the ground that he did not see why this advantage should be given in the case of one-pound notes (for such he considered it both to debtor and creditor) over every other species of small debt.Mr. Home Drummond
 said, the hon. gentleman's amendment was intirely at variance with the principle of the bill. The hon. gentleman wished the continuance of the issue of small notes, under such regulation as should protect the public from inconvenience; but the object of the bill was to put an end to them, and (if it could be compassed) by such gradual extinction as would allow of their being replaced by a better medium. If the hon. gentleman's clause were admitted, in the present temper of the country, no banker, in his senses, would issue another note.Mr. Hudson Gurney
898 could not see how any of the inconveniences which the honourable Bank directors apprehended could arise from the Bank periodically making known the amount of their notes in circulation. All commercial transactions alternately resolving themselves into payment in Bank notes, the Bank issues must so materially affect the prices of every thing saleable, that it appeared of the greatest importance that this information should be given. It might be doubted, possibly, whether the House had the
898Mr. Hudson Gurney
899 observed, that though false inferences might be deduced from authentic facts, inferences much more false and much more mischievous might be drawn from assumptions which
899Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, that if any combination or understanding amongst the country bankers to call in their smaller notes, in order to defeat the measures of government, existed, he was entirely ignorant of it, and totally disbelieved its existence. He wished to meet the right hon. gentleman's assertion with all deference; but thought he must have been greatly misinformed on the subject. The House in which he was concerned, had never issued one-pound notes; and, therefore, personally he could wash his hands of the imputation. The branches, indeed, connected with that Bank had been in the habit of issuing them, and, he believed, continued issuing them still; but every one knew, particularly since the commencement of these debates, that the small notes being brought in on the bankers for payment, the amount in circulation must, of necessity, have been much reduced.—The hon. member for Montrose wished this private issue to be continued without limit. He (Mr. G.) wished to see it put an end to; and he was satisfied the only possible way in which the measures of government could have been carried into effect, was by the course which they had recently taken; namely, the allowing the Bank of England to continue to stamp their notes for a certain limited time, in order to take the place of the country paper, which might be cancelled or discredited. He acquitted the right hon. gentleman opposite of any inconsistency in conceding this alteration of their original plan; but he must repeat, that it had been forced on them by the obvious necessity of the case, and not by any conspiracy of the country bankers.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 thought it would be advisable that the notes of country bankers should be made payable in the country and in London also.Mr. Benett
l.l.l.s.,901l.l. said, it had been remarked, that it was difficult to ascertain at what particular period there were too many or too few Bank-notes in circulation. The correctness of that observation had been established by recent events. A few months back 20,000,000l.l.l.s.,901l.l.Mr. Irving
 thought that, to render the measure productive of the intended good, it should be carried much further. The mere prevention of an investment of the property of a trader from being considered an act of bankruptcy would not be sufficient; for it often happened that acts of bankruptcy were committed before such investment was made. Now, it would be necessary that the bill should extend to prevent those previous acts of bankruptcy from affecting the trust deed for the benefit of the creditors. The bill which had already passed, making the issuing of commissions of bankrupt null and void, unless such commissions were, issued within six months, was not carried: far enough; and unless some improvement on this point were made in the present bill, it would be inoperative.Mr. Lockhart
l.l. rose to set the hon. member for Callington right, upon the custom which he said was so general in the midland counties. The fact was, that in Leicestershire all notes above one pound were made payable, both at the place of their issue and in London. And he would add, as a practical man, that, in ordinary times, he could not see what difference it could make to a country banker whether he paid his 5l.l.Mr. Mansfield
 thought it would be a great tax upon country bankers to make them find a fund for the payment of their notes in two places.Mr. J. Martin
s.l.915 rose to move a clause, pro-
s.l.915Mr. Monck
892 said, that the system of a paper currency subsisting at the same time with one of gold, was the most objectionable in principle, as well as in practice, that could be imagined. The tendency of the one was always to drive out the other, and to cause the most serious inconveniencies to the country, by keeping up a ruinous fluctuation of prices. Money, and not money's worth, was the basis of a well-regulated currency; and whenever this principle should be departed from, the consequences must be highly detrimental. Much had been said lately of the respectability of the country bankers. He did not mean to say that there were not some of those persons who, in every point of view, deserved all that had been said in their favour; but it was not less true that some who called themselves country bankers were little better than swindlers. There was, therefore, the greatest reason why a difference should be made between persons who were entitled to confidence, and those who had no other object than to defraud those who were so unfortunate as to trust them. It was obviously the first duty of the ministers of any country to maintain the safety of the country. In discharge of this duty, they ought to prevent the persons he had alluded to from taking the king's coin out of circulation, and afterwards that which was the next best thing, the Bank of England notes, and substitute for them nothing
892Mr. Monck
 supported the amendment. If the measure now proposed had always been in force, the Bank Restriction act of 1797 would never have been passed.Mr. Monck
 observed, that country bankers could not object to the proposed clause at the present time, when specie could be so much more easily obtained than when it was formerly in existence. How could a poor man compel the payment of his note in specie, when he was forced to bring an action? The clause had been continued in all the Bank Restriction acts, until the 3rd of his present majesty, when it was left out. It would be strange that the clause should be continued when there was no specie to pay, and expunged when there was. If they did not adopt this clause, they would allow gold to be put out of circulation, and trash of paper to be substituted in its places, without giving any remedy to recover its payment but by an action at law. Such a course was the reverse of returning to a metallic currency.Mr. Monck
 said, that if this clause was not adopted, the holders of small notes would be in a worse situation than they were in 1797, and up to 1823; for, up to the 3rd of the present king, the clause now proposed had been law; so that if it were a hardship, it was one to which the country bankers were accustomed. If they were compelled to issue small notes, they might have some reason to complain; but now they must take the good and the bad together. When they knew that it was always in contemplation to return to a metallic currency, they had no reason to complain that they would now be compelled to pay in gold by a summary process.Mr. Monck
 said, that the proprietors of Bank stock, who were chiefly merchants of the highest character and talents, though naturally anxious to obtain a knowledge of the concerns of the establishment with which they were connected, were nevertheless so satisfied of the abuse which might be made in the commercial world of the information, which the hon. member desired to have made public, that they had constantly resisted every endeavour which particular individuals had made to procure its production.Mr. Pearse
 objected to the motion on the ground that it would, if carried into effect, create considerable public inconvenience. If parliament had called for such an account of the Bank issues, as was now asked for, during the continuance of the Bank restriction, there would have been some plea for doing so; but now that cash payments were resumed, the Bank stood in precisely the same situation as any other Banking establishment. He was decidedly of opinion that if a periodical account of all the Bank issues was published, it would give rise to all sorts of rash speculation, and particularly with respect to the exchanges.Mr. Pearse
 observed, that the worthy alderman admitted, in using the words of the hon. member who preceded him, "that gold was put out of circulation, and trash of paper substituted for it," that there could not be a current circulation of the one-pound note and a sovereign. This was the plain English of the words; but indeed it was already pretty well known, from good authority, that they could not co-exist. When country bankers issued their one-pound notes, and these notes filled up the place of gold, what was it but issuing so much trash? But it was said, that country bankers derived no profit from these issues—that they would be better pleased to be precluded from issuing one-pound notes. This he was not very willing to believe. If they so expressed themselves, it must be a sort of nolo episcopari. That they were so inconvenient, onerous, burthensome, and what not, he could not believe. That they were profitable he had no doubt, and that in proportion to the amount of their circulation. He drew a distinction between the holder of a one-pound note and the holder of a promissory note. The claim of the holder of the currency was much stronger. He had no choice; he was obliged to have it whether he would or not; but the holder of a promissory note had a choice; he might refuse it if he pleased. The lower classes, particularly, had no choice left them but to take this trash; and, if they were obliged to take it, they had a right to have a more summary power for its recovery.Mr. Warre
905 would ask the right hon. the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who described the situation of the lower classes, with respect to these one-pound notes, in
905Mr. Hume
 said, he expected his proposition would be supported by every banker in the House; but he would not rely on the bankers alone; he should expect the support of the ministers themselves. The system in its present form, afforded no security. The bankers might again get out immense amounts of notes, and might again spend large sums for their own living, as too many had done, if there were not some check upon such a system. He was sorry to see the day arrived when Mr. Cobbett's prophecies were realised; when, in fact, they were threatened with his feast of the gridiron. The prophecies had been realized; for the ministers now, in reality, acknowledged that notes were not equal to gold; that they were admitted to be not convertible into gold; and that was the fact respecting them, if the amount in specie could be rufused by bankers, and not be recovered but by an action. He would enforce his proposition, if he divided alone; but he expected he should have the support of every solvent banker in the House [Cries of "Order."]Mr. Hume
 explained. He had first said "every banker," and admitted that afterwards he had used the word "solvent," though without any individual application.Mr. Hume
 again rose. He said, that he held in his hand four or five Bank notes, such as those which were to form the circulating medium of the country, and carry the House to the accomplishment of its object. Now, he called the attention of the committee to the inconsistency of ministers, for the notes which he held in his hand were not, strictly speaking, convertible into gold upon demand, and the holder was left to his remedy by an action at law. It was true that a rich man might obtain justice in this way; but what was to become of the humble holder of a single pound note, about the necessity of relieving whom so much had been said? It appeared that ministers were about to leave the poor man without any remedy whatever. The country banks were all alike; their "promise to pay" was false. They would not pay their notes in the country unless compelled to do so. One of the notes he held in his hand was the issue of a Warwick bank for five pounds, and it ran thus—"I promise to pay at the banking-house of sir R. C. Glyn and Co., London, the sum of five pounds, for value received here." But the receiver of this note in the country, "for value received," could not convert it into specie, unless he hired an agent in London, or came to town himself; and, in the latter event, the expenses of the journey would absorb the whole of the money. Another note belonged to the Stratford-upon-Avon bank, and was so much worn as to be scarcely legible. He would state, in order to show how long these rags would last, that this note was dated 1818, so that it had been eight years in circulation—a proof how little the return of stamps issued yearly was likely to show the actual number of such notes in circulation. All these notes were payable in London only. As this was an extreme hardship, he proposed to enact that, in future, all promissory notes should be made payable at the places whence they were issued.Mr. Hume
 said, that as the House had not adopted a previous suggestion which he had made, he now meant to offer an amendment, which would enable the poor to obtain payment from country bankers of their one-pound notes. He held in his hand the act of 37 Geo. 3rd. one clause, of which enacted, that if any country banker should refuse to pay gold for his small notes, within three days of demand, it was in the power of any magistrate to distrain upon his property by summary process. The 37th Geo. 3rd, had fixed the period at three days, but a subsequent act, passed in the same session, had made it seven days, and thus it had continued throughout all the subsequent measures, until it was left out altogether. He reasonably believed that the omission had not been intentional. At present, a person holding a one-pound country bank-note was in a similar situation to a person holding any commercial promissory note, or other undertaking to pay. The holder of the one-pound note, in order to recover its value, must bring his action against the banker; which was attended with great expense, and occasioned a delay of six months. Under these circumstances, the poor had no means of recovering the value of any small note they might hold. What poor man could bring such an action against a banker? It was absolutely necessary to give the public some summary means of redress against country bankers who issued more paper than they could command specie to meet it. The substance of his clause was, that if any banker should refuse to pay in specie the value of his note longer than seven days, the magistrate might proceed by summary process.Mr. Hume
 said, that the greatest advantages would result to the public from the monthly publication of the amount of the issues of the Bank of England and of all he country banks. There were eight hundred banks in the country, and each of these, as well as the Bank of England, should be obliged to make a monthly return to the Stamp Office of the amount of their issues. The names of the bankers need not be laid before the House; but the returns might be made, so that the information of the amount of circulation in the country might always be easily ascertainable.Mr. Hume
 said, he understood the right hon. gentleman to agree with him as to the principle, but objected that this was not the time for carrying the measure he had proposed. As, however, the right hon. gentleman had not said what time he thought would be a favourable one, the same objection might always be made. He was desirous to ascertain what was the feeling of the House upon it, and for this purpose should press his motion to a division.Mr. Hume
l.881l.l.l.l.880l.l.l.l.879 said, whatever difference of opinion might exist in the minds of hon. members as to the causes of the present distress, they were all agreed, at least, in a sincere desire to alleviate it as much as was in their power, and to prevent a recurrence of similar disasters. He was sorry to be obliged to differ from the introducers of the present bill as to the causes of the evil, and he could not but consider the present measure wholly uncalled for, and extremely mischievous in itself. He begged to remind hon. members, that if they supported this measure for England, they could not consistently oppose the extension of it both to Scotland and Ireland; for it was but right that the same system of currency should prevail through every part of the united kingdom. The supporters of this bill must also be guilty of a decided retracta-
l.881l.l.l.l.880l.l.l.l.879Mr. Hume
 next proposed a clause, by which the public should be made acquainted, at specified periods, with the number of notes issued by the Bank of England.Mr. Hume
891 said, he conceived this measure to be a mere temporary one, intended by the chancellor of the Exchequer as a stepping-stone to further improvement. He thought that the security of the country depended upon the facility and certainty with which the paper issues—of whatever description they might be—could be converted at the will of the holder into gold. Not to do this would be to give a loose rein to the wild enterprises of those who had already proved that
891Mr. Leycester
907 considered the expression of the hon. member to be unwarrantable and indecent. To imply that there were insolvent bankers in the House was indecent.907Mr. R. Martin
 was acquainted with three country banks, whose notes were always payable at the places from whence they were issued; and this was certainly the most secure guarantee to the public, as the property and responsibility of country bankers must be better known at the places in which they reside than at a distance. For this reason he should give his cordial support to a measure which would have the effect of making country bank notes payable on demand at the places from which they were issued.Mr. Carus Wilson
l. said, that the clause he meant to propose would, he believed, meet all the objections. That clause would compel the payment of all notes under 20l.Mr. Huskisson
 was not prepared to compel country bankers to pay their notes in London, but he felt it right that they should pay them where they were issued, leaving it at their option to make them payable elsewhere also.Mr. Huskisson
l.910 said, that it was his intention to propose a clause to that effect. When an hon. member first stated, that
l.910Mr. Huskisson
889l.l.888887 said, he should not have troubled the House at all upon this occasion, if he had not been called upon by the hon. member for Hull, to set right a misrepresentation, which had occasioned uneasiness to several of his constituents. In a former debate, having had occasion to notice an argument of the hon. member for Cricklade, who had opposed the bill for the regulation of the one and two pound notes, on the ground that they could not be suppressed without producing great injury to the agricultural interest, he had endeavoured to show, that even if that inconvenience should ensue from that bill, there were other and greater inconveniences likely to ensue from the want of it. In looking about for a proof of that assertion in a country unconnected almost with commerce, he had referred to what had occurred at Horsham, in Sussex, where, ten years ago, the bank, which was the only one in the place, had failed, and had involved the inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood in the most severe distress. After that failure had oc-
889l.l.888887Mr. Huskisson
 said, he had stated, on a former occasion, that although it was his intention to propose a measure with respect to chartered banks, he should wait until some steps had been taken towards the establishment of such banks.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that if the return was made as required, it would tend rather to mislead than to inform the House; for the subject could not be understood without many details.Mr. Manning
 presented a petition from the creditors of the Swansea bank of Gibbon and Eaton, in favour of the bill before the House for promoting a better arrangement between Debtor and Creditor. The petition went to point out the serious inconvenience which occurred, as the law now stood, in vesting the property of merchants, bankers, and others engaged in trade, who might be involved in difficulties. It often happened, that when the majority of the creditors were disposed to invest the property in the hands of trustees for the benefit of the whole, one obstinate creditor, by holding out, and taking out a commission of bankruptcy, involved the property in legal proceedings to such an extent, that that property, which would, under a different system, pay a large dividend, was wholly absorbed in law expenses, and thus lost to the creditors. The petitioners, therefore, prayed, that the bill which allowed the majority of the creditors to enter into arrangements for the security of the property, might be binding on all; and that after such arrangement had been entered into, no creditor should be allowed to sue out a commission of bankruptcy. They gave an instance of the evil of which they complained, in the case of the Swansea Bank.Sir C. Cole
 said, it would be a great hardship to compel country bankers to make their notes payable in two places, as in that case they would be obliged to provide double funds to meet the demands in each place.Sir J. Wrottesley
 was of opinion, that the clause proposed was in favour of country bankers, and one which they ought to support. The universal complaint was, that their notes were discredited. It must, then, be their wish to impart credit to them. If the clause was introduced, many persons would take their notes who would otherwise refuse them, and thence credit would be restored to this part of the circulation.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that the public had a right to claim of the Bank the information required, and no possible danger could result from affording it.Sir John Newport
 was of opinion, that if the bill passed with the clause, the evil would be increased tenfold. He was sorry that ministers should have thought it necessary to introduce the measure at all. In his view, the measure was calculated to do nothing but mischief to the country; and if he had been present at its introduction, he would have voted against it. What did the bill do but create fresh alarm, when the only cure for the evil was to inspire confidence? The persons against whom it was directed were not those whose flimsy means had failed in the panic before Christmas, but those who, by weathering the storm, had given proof of their competence and security. He regretted that ministers had legislated at all upon the subject. If left to themselves, matters would in due time have found their level. As it was, he could not conceal his Opinion from the House, that the end of the panic was not yet arrived. He believed, on the contrary, that the most serious period of the storm was yet to come; and felt convinced that what had been done by government would only aggravate the danger. As he was decidedly hostile to legislating at all, he thought that the fewer powers the bill passed with the better, and he should therefore resist the proposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen.Lord Milton
 said, he was anxious to put a question relative to a subject of considerable importance. He wished to inquire whether the attention of the commander-in-chief had been called to a very extraordinary statement, relative to the treatment experienced by a soldier in Exeter, and which, if true, would demand an immediate inquiry.Sir F. Burdett
921 said, that in answer to the appeal which had been made to him by the hon. member for the city of London, he had to state to the House, that a communication had taken place between his majesty's Government and the Bank, for the purpose of ascertaining how far that body would be disposed to extend relief to the existing depression in the trading, commercial, and manu-
921The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that, before that motion was acceded to, he was desirous to reply more specifically to the points adverted to by the hon. member for London. He had before stated, that the question was under the consideration of the Bank, as to the best mode of extending aid to remove the present distresses of the country. He had now to state, that it was the intention of the Bank to carry their advances to a point not exceeding three millions. They would not, of course, be bound to go to that extent, but that was the utmost limit to which they would feel themselves justified in advancing. It was stated to the Bank, that it was the intention of government to propose to parliament, in the course of the session, a measure by which a considerable portion of the advances made by the Bank to Government would be paid off; and he had now further to add, that his right hon. friend, the president of the Board of Trade, meant to submit to parliament the propriety of accelerating the period at which the measure he had introduced last session, relative to the law of Merchant and Factor, should come into operation. His right hon. friend would do so for the purpose of effecting the objects which the House had in view when that measure was submitted to their consideration, and of facilitating the purpose which they now had in view. It was only at a late period of the day that he had been made acquainted with what the Bank had proposed to do; it was, therefore, impossible he could have communicated it earlier. Under these circumstances, he thought the hon. member for London would be acting a prudent part in withdrawing his motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that the precise mode in which the plan might be carried into effect he was unable to state. One of the main considerations which had influenced the Bank, in the course they proposed to adopt, was the hope of being able to contribute to the relief, not merely of the city of London, but in an especial manner to diminish the distress which existed in the manufacturing districts.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had not stated that it was the intention of government to bear the Bank harmless. All he had said was, that government meant to propose to parliament a measure which would reduce the advances made by the Bank to government, and relieve the Bank from the embarrassment consequent thereon. Nor was it his intention to propose any bill for the purpose of establishing a commission. The measure which government meant to propose, was one that would afford relief, by accelerating the operation of the law between merchant and factor.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not feel very sensible of the accommodation proffered by the right hon. gentleman, in requesting a convenient opportunity for censuring the conduct of himself and the government. However, he must say he should hare no objection to meet the discussion on fair grounds, if the right hon. gentleman should think proper to bring forward, the question in the shape of a specific motion, or should avail himself of the opportunity of his right hon. friend's motion relating to the law of Merchant and Factor. He understood the right hon. gentleman to want an opportunity for calling the attention of the House to the question; if so, he had better choose his own day, and then the government would do their best to contend with the arguments of the right hon. gentleman.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
927926925 said, he thought the conduct of government calculated to ispire any thing but confidence. As
927926925Sir Francis Burdett
 said, that when the fit opportunity should arrive, he would undertake to show, in the first place, that this measure was not the same as an issue of Exchequer-bills, and that many of the objections which applied to such an issue did not apply to it; and, in the second place, that the reluctance of government to issue Exchequer-bills was not founded upon any idle respect to the words of a noble earl, but upon a candid and anxious investigation of all the objections to which it was liable, and a sincere conviction that it was not their duty to consent to such a proposal. That opinion he would under-take to justify at the proper season, by such arguments as he trusted the House would deem conclusive.Mr. Secretary Canning
930 said, he hoped that, in objecting to the terms in which this motion was couched, he should not be deemed captious. To the main object of the motion he did not mean to
930The Chancellor of the Exchequer
950s.949l.l.948l.l.l.l.l.947l.l.946945944l.943942 said, that if he thought any consideration which he could give to the subject, after the full consideration which it must be obvious he had already bestowed upon it, could induce him to think that the mode of proceeding which the right hon. gentleman recommended was the most advisable to be pursued, he could assure him, that no unwillingness to abandon his own system, no fear of any reproaches which might be cast, upon hint for want of firmness or consistency, would induce him to abstain from adopting it; but the more deliberately he had considered the measure which the right hon. gentleman recommended as best calculated to effect what they all had in view, in relation either to the arguments which were advanced for
950s.949l.l.948l.l.l.l.l.947l.l.946945944l.943942The Chancellor of the Exchequer
956955954953952951 observed, that the question divided itsell, in the right hon. gentle-
956955954953952951Mr. Baring
d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.959d.s.l. condemned the hesitation of government to afford relief at a moment when the whole manufacturing and commercial interests of the country were in one common state of stagnation and distress. And, in this state of things, what was it that they required? They asked no boon. They only asked that the channels of public communication might be restored; that the stagnation which at present prevailed might be relieved by an issue of Exchequer-bills. And this aid they requested at a period of as great distress and panic as any which had ever taken place in this country. What danger could there be in advancing Exchequer-bills? It had been formerly tried, and found to answer all the purposes expected. He hoped the ministers would not, at a future period, turn round upon the Bank, and accuse them of any inconvenience that might arise from the measure which they were now forcing upon that body. The right hon. Secretary had acted, he contended, in total ignorance of the subject, when he said, in 1819, that the measure of that year was to settle the currency question for ever. A metallic currency, with a standard of 3d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.959d.s.l.Mr. Attwood
, in explanation, observed, that the sentiments which had fallen from him would not bear, if fairly examined, the construction which the lion, member had been pleased to put upon them.Mr. Attwood
 said, that the system which he had described prevailed in Wolverhampton, Stratford-upon-Avon, and other places.Mr. Attwood
 said, he had been represented as having asserted, that the country bankers were perfectly satisfied with this measure. He had stated no such thing. What he had said was, that the country bankers did not wish to throw obstacles in the way of ministers; and that they had done all in their power to arrest the growing distress. The cause of the diminution of their circulation was, the general panic which existed. Being pressed, in consequence of that panic, they wished rather to act at once, than wait for the expiration of three years.Mr. Alderman Heygate
s.s.966 rose to express his strong disapprobation of the measure before the House. It was, in his mind, ill-timed, injudicious, and likely to bring most serious distress on the country. In 1822, a great issue of paper took place to meet the distresses of the agricultural interest. They were then said to go on well for a while; but, what was the country better for it now? At length the present misfortunes arose; and now fresh issues of paper-money were resorted to as a remedy. Arguing from the past, would not the state of the country, at a future period, and that not far distant, be just as deplorable as it was at present? The bill, he contended, was no remedy for the evil—It was merely a palliative; and when its effects had passed away, the patient would find himself worse than he was before. If the expenses of the country were not considerably reduced, there could be no safe return to a metallic currency. To attempt one without the other, would bring upon agriculture the severest distress; and then they must come to an amicable, or equitable adjustment—he did not care which term they chose for the purpose. He declared himself no friend to high prices. He knew that the manufacturing interests could not exist with high prices; much less could any natural competition be successful under them. But he knew, also, that if corn were not kept up to a certain price, starvation must ensue amongst the agricultural classes. Ministers had a really difficult task to perform. He believed they were earnest in their endeavours to do right. But here was their difficulty—they must have Tow prices for the manufacturers, and they mint have high prices for the other classes.
s.s.966Mr. F. Palmer
l. said, that there were some alterations which it was of importance should be made in this bill. The first of these was to expunge from the penalty-clauses that which empowered a justice of the peace summarily to levy the penalty inflicted by the act. His proposition was, that instead of this the penalties should be levied in the ordinary way, as in other cases of offences against the Stamp-acts. The other alteration was, that individuals should not be precluded from drawing checks upon their bankers for sums less than 5l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the object of the bill was the extinction of small notes at the end of three years. But, in his opinion, that extinction should be brought about within three years by as slow degrees as were practicable. If any persons had acted under the idea that small notes were immediately to go out of circulation, they had assuredly laboured under a complete misapprehension.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the act of the 17th Geo. 3rd had been brought in to prevent the circulation of one-pound promissory notes, and parliament had thought fit to extend the operation of it to all notes under five pound. The object then in View was, to prevent small bills being given at long dates; which otherwise might have passed and circulated from hand to hand, as the small notes payable on demand had before done. The act, consequently, allowed bills to be drawn on bona fide debtors, at twenty-one days' date, in a certain form contained in the act.The Attorney-General
 said, in reply, that the present state of things was entirely owing to the plans of ministers. In 1822, a large issue of paper was allowed to meet the agricultural distress. Government was then enabled to reduce the interest on the 5 per cents. There appeared to be plenty of money in the country; individuals wished to procure a higher rate of interest than the funds provided, and they had, in consequence, had recourse to speculation. Instead of encouraging a large issue of paper now, he thought it would be better to grant relief to the country through the medium of Exchequer-bills. If the circulating medium were greatly increased, what would be the effect? A great rise in prices, which would decrease as the circulating medium was narrowed. At in what a situation would be country be then placed? He had hoped that the present conjuncture would have produced some wholesome disagreement between the government and the Bank; and he was sorry that the Bank had not forced the government to abandon their present course. If the Bank had remained firm, government must have yielded the point, and the distress of the country would have given birth to other measures. He regretted very much that the Bank had become instrumental to the adoption of mere half-measures. The proper way to meet the existing distress would have been by an issue of Exchequer-bills.Mr. Ellice
929 said, that after the declaration which his right hon. friend had just made, of his intention to discuss the propriety of the Bank advancing money upon deposits, to merchants, upon the motion which he then held in his hand, he felt himself justified in saying, that be fully concurred with his right hon. friend in the remarks which he had made upon that notable project. He did think, that if government had come down to the House immediately after the speech from the throne; if they had brought forward their financial statement for the year, and had announced their intention of relieving the Bank of the debt which they owed it, and of reducing it to purchase Exchequer-bills in the market for the sake of increasing their price; and if they had further stated that they were ready to advance Exchequer-bills to merchants on their goods, they would not only have restored the country to confidence, but would have given that facility to the execution of their own measures, which would have been highly advantageous to their successful accomplishment. Having said thus much upon that subject, he would leave it in the hands of his right hon. friend, who was much better able to discuss it than he was, and would proceed forthwith to the explanation1 of his own motion. It would be in the recollection of the House, that two acts had passed, enabling his majesty's government to issue to commissioners Exchequer-bills, to be employed towards the completion of public works and for the employment of the poor. The commissioners under these two acts had proceeded from year to year, to make sundry advances to different classes of individuals for the purpose of carrying on public works and employing the necessitous poor. Reports had been from time to time laid before the Treasury, which had always found their; why to the table of the House; but he did not find there had been any direct return to a motion to lay on the table an account of all Issues made by the commissioners, and which appeared the more expedient, as such a measure was directly pointed out by the acts to which
929Mr. Ellice
 thought it quite necessary that he should have the names of the persons to whom the various advances had been made. With respect to the securities, he only wanted to know the nature of them; and the return would be sufficient, if it stated that the money had been lent upon personal security, or on the rates or tolls. He by no means wanted to know the names of the persons who had become securities for the repayment of the advances.Mr. Ellice
923 was desirous to know whether it was in contemplation to extend
923Mr. Ellice
924 said, he understood the right hon. gentleman perfectly, but was sorry he could not agree with him. He was still convinced, as strongly as when he had first expressed the opinion, of the propriety of issuing Exchequer-bills; and although he, believed the proposed measure might have a good effect, still he was persuaded it would not have the desirable effect of restoring confidence. But he was at a loss to know how to argue this question; for, in fact, there was nothing begun: but he trusted some opportunity would be afforded him and his friends of expressing their opinions on the subject. It appeared to him that the measure they talked about was nothing more than a mere, shift to do something, which, in effect was nothing. The Bank had certainly behaved very kindly in putting themselves in the gap when nobody else would. But then, this measure did not come recommended by their approval. It was not brought forward like the measure of Mr. Pitt, which was recommended by a committee. The House was asked to adopt it, because, forsooth, a noble
924Mr. Tierney
 wished to be informed whether it was intended to proceed by bill on the measure for securing the Bank?Mr. Tierney
941940939938l.l.l.937l.l.l.l.l.936935934933932931l. then rose. He said, that he had come down to the House in the hope that some discussion would take place respecting the measure proposed with respect to the Bank. He now, however, understood, that, owing to some arrangement which had been made, the Bank of England were, with the sanction of government, to take upon themselves to issue Exchequer-bills to the amount of 3,000,000941940939938l.l.l.937l.l.l.l.l.936935934933932931l.Mr. Tierney
928 said, that, as a motion regarding the issue of Exchequer-bills stood for that night, he gave the right hon. gen-
928Mr. Tierney
 said, he did not rise for the purpose of continuing this discussion, which, it must be admitted, was already sufficiently irregular. He could not, however, allow the present opportunity to pass without stating, that he concurred with every observation which had fallen from his right hon. friend, the member for Knaresborough, and with almost every observation which had fallen from the hon. baronet at the close of his speech. If the measure which they had heard of for the first time that night were one which ought to be resorted to at all, it ought to have been resorted to before the present moment. The true mode for government to have acted was to have one openly, fairly, and at once, that which u was bow going to do in a round-about way—in a way of which the Bank, if it were called upon to make advances to the extent, or to half the extent, of the sum which they had just heard, would be the first party to repent; for the arrangement into which it had entered was as contrary to all the true principles of banking as any measure could possibly be.Mr. Brougham
 expressed a doubt whether, according to the present wording of the clause, any drafts for sums under five pound were not illegal, if they were drawn payable to order and not to bearer.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 thought it necessary to set the House right as to the communication which had been made. The Bank was strongly of opinion, that the other mode of relieving the distress of the country would be much preferable to that now under consideration; but being most desirous to meet the present difficulties of the country, they had consented to waive their own opinions. He was sanguine in his expectations that so much money would not be required. Confidence was the great thing to be established; and he was satisfied that confidence would be restored even by the knowledge that something was about to be done.Mr. Pearse
964 said, he must repeat what he had before said, that the government by bringing this subject before the country as they had done, had created much danger, which they might have avoided by adopting the more prudent course of previous consideration and sedulous inquiry. The evil was said, in the first instance, to have arisen from the speculation which the issues of the private bankers were alleged to have encouraged; and the existing, as well as the apprehended mischief, was now traced to the circumstance of the country bankers paving off their notes, and thus narrowing the circulating medium. One hon. mem-
964Mr. J. Smith
 did not see the weight of the objection. The names of the parties at least, if not the nature of the securities, ought to be laid before parliament, that it might be seen whether or not the advances had been made to the persons, and for the purposes contemplated by the acts.Mr. Hume
963962l.l. said, it was admitted on all hands, that the country was in a state of great distress; and the question was, whether that distress was or was not to be relieved by the legislature? Unquestionably relief ought to be afforded; and it was their duty to consider what measure appeared most likely to produce an object so desirable. Various reasons were adduced for the existence of the present untoward state of things. Amongst other things, they were told that 25,000,000963962l.l.Mr. P. Moore
 hoped, that instead of going to the third reading of the bill, the right hon. gentleman would allow it to be reprinted. He objected to it wholly, as a most impolitic interference with the principles of free trade, which the right hon. gentleman had so honourably supported. This bill was of no effect. The last clause repealed it as to the Bank of England which was still permitted to issue one and two pound notes; a liberty which he did not think could be granted to them with greater propriety than to other banks. As, however, that liberty was reserved to them, he trusted that the Attorney-general would be directed to bring in a bill to mitigate the punishment of forgery, so as to prevent the recurrence of those horrid executions which were produced by the ease with which Bank of England notes might be forged.Mr. Denman
958 thought, that ministers were bound, in mere courtesy to parliament, to assign some reason beyond their personal pleasure, why the plan now under discussion was preferred to that which had been recommended to them. For the measure which had been suggested there was at least a precedent; and he still believed that it would have turned out the most advantageous, as well as the most satisfactory to the country. It was said that there could be no difference between borrowing money upon bills of exchange and borrowing it upon goods, especially as the time for which the accommodation was wanted would not exceed a few months; but he doubted very much whether any man of business could be found who would declare, that he thought any such limited extent of accommodation likely to be sufficient. Gentlemen coming up on the spur from the country, and applying to the Bank for relief, might be glad to take it for any period, and on any terms they could get; and such persons might have talked of a few months being sufficient; but certainly no one else could. As to what was said to justify the dislike of ministers now to assist the mercantile interests; namely, that relief had been refused some years since to the distress of the agriculturists—that argument had no force whatever; for the relief to the agriculturalists, though nominally refused, was virtually granted. It was true, that advances were not made by the government: but a measure was passed, empowering the country banks to issue small notes, which had exactly the same operation. As it seemed to him, the precedent of allowing merchants to go to the Bank to borrow money upon goods, was likely to lead to a repetition of such applications, in such a way as would be highly inconvenient. Merchants would go to the Bank, when the custom was once established, upon every occasion which might seem to justify such a measure; whereas, they could not have the face to make application to government, unless in a case of great general national distress. He could not sit down, without protesting against the tone in which ministers had treated both the applicants for relief, and parliament in general. In a case of public calamity, like that in which the country bad been placed, as servants of the Crown, and standing immediately between the
958Mr. T. Wilson
 being loudly called on by the House, said, that before he proceeded with the motion of which he had given notice, for a select committee to inquire into the present distresses of the commercial world, he wished to know from the chancellor of the Exchequer, whether any thing had occurred, in the course of the day, to render it necessary for him to make a communication to the House?Mr. Thomas Wilson
 said, after what had fallen from the chancellor of the Exchequer, it would only be necessary for him to make a very few observations; although be thought the right hon. gentleman might have gone further. It was of the highest importance, that if any thing more was intended, it should be perfectly understood, and that the House should be rightly informed on the subject. What he understood to be the case was, that a communication had been made, that there was no disinclination to the proposition on the part of the Bank, and that that body would make an advance of three millions of money, upon goods, on the understanding that the government would bring forward some measure to bear them harmless, and afford some facilities in regard to their issues until October. If this was the nature of the arrangement, he should hail it with the utmost satisfaction. The Bank had done themselves honour to a degree, far beyond his powers of description; but he was unable to express the same sentiment towards his majesty's government. They had allowed the distresses of the country to proceed to too great an extent, and they were quite culpable in allowing such a state of things to exist from week to week, without adopting some measure of relief. However, he was happy that an arrangement had been come to; and if the proposed relief would have the effect of invigorating trade, and restoring public credit, he should not be fastidious as to the mode; although he was convinced that the measure proposed was not the best way of affording relief. But he hoped the advance of three millions would produce very general good. The country was much indebted to the Bank for using their best efforts to diminish the present alarming distress. The relief would not apply to the merchants of London merely, but to the commercial and manufacturing interests of the country. The Bank had done their duty nobly, and he should therefore ask for leave to withdraw the motion of which he had given notice.Mr. T. Wilson
 thought it would be much more convenient to the merchants to have a commission established; but, as the measure had only been agreed upon that afternoon, it would be impossible to enter into all its details at present.Mr. Manning
920 replied, that as he happened to be in possession of some information on the subject, he would communicate it to
920Mr. Peel
961d.s.l.l.960 said, he believed that a fair arrangement of the currency of the country would do far more for the general benefit than the measure now proposed; but as relief was to be given, e thought it would be much better given by advances from the Bank than by an issue of Exchequer-bills. With reference to the conduct of ministers, the hon. member for London found fault with their steady adherence to the line which they had adopted; but he could not see the subject in that light. He gave them credit far their steadiness, and thought that nothing but mischief could have resulted from vacillation. He could not concur in opinion with those who wished ministers to abandon the position they had taken. They ought not to be such mere creatures of circumstances as to veer round with every breath of popular opinion. Let them steadily pursue the line of conduct which they had pledged themselves to support, the difficulties which were now complained of would speedily pass away. Nothing which he bad heard ought to deter government from pursuing that sound line of policy which they had declared it to be their determination to Uphold. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. member for Callington, he implored the House not to be
961d.s.l.l.960Mr. W. Whitmore
967 said, that some persons had an idea in the north, that no one-pound notes of any description were to remain in circulation after the passing of the bill. If the right hon. gentleman would give that notion a positive contra-
967Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that the statement was, to a great extent, exaggerated. An offer was made to the officer concerned, that the columns of a newspaper would be open to his refutation of the statement; but he replied, that he did not think it worth his while to reply to any thing that might appear in a newspaper, but would assist the investigation which the commander-in-chief had directed. The lieutenant-colonel was accordingly sent down to Exeter, and an inquiry would be immediately instituted. Knowing the prejudice which last year had been excited against that regiment most unjustly, he was disposed to think the statement was greatly exaggerated. He verily believed, that so far from there being any foundation for blame against the commanding officer, the transaction arose entirely from the strong inclination which he felt to avoid the infliction of corporal punishment, and which induced him to resort to severe drills and other punishments as substitutes.Sir H. Vivian
957 said, that he did not wish to look for cases of precedent. It was admitted that this was a period of great commercial distress, and the question was, whether ministers would or would not step forward to relieve the trade and commerce of the country? He fully concurred with them in the necessity of placing the currency upon a permanent footing, and he thought that the present was a favourable moment for doing so, but concurrently with that measure, they were bound to take every means to relieve the existing distress. It was true the Bank of England had, by its charter, the power to lend money upon goods, but it was a power rarely used, and ministers had no right to depend upon the exertions of the Bank in the present emergency. Nor did he see, when an issue of Exchequer-bills on former occasions had been attended with complete success, why the present assistance should have been given in a shape, the conve-
957Lord Althorp
919, on presenting one from the University of Cambridge, said, that the petitioners highly approved of the resolutions passed by that House in 1823, and the zeal with which the government had acted in endeavouring to carry the object into effect. He was glad to have the honour of presenting this petition. It could not but be gratifying to all those who wished well to the cause, to see the University of Cambridge taking a prominent part among those who were desirous of putting an end, in a gradual and practical manner, to negro slavery in the colonies. It would have been strange if it had been otherwise among those who were to prepare, and those who were to become future legislators of Great Britain.
919Lord Palmerston
"That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose at the earliest period that shall be compatible with the well-being of the slaves themselves, with the safety of the colonies, with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private property.""That, through a determined and persevering, but at the same time judicious and temperate, enforcement of such measures, this House looks forward to a progressive improvement in the character of the slave population, such as may prepare them for a participation in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his majesty's subjects:"Resolved, nem. con. That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive measures for meliorating the condition of the slave population in his majesty's colonies: rose, and commenced his speech by observing, that before he answered the call of the hon. member, he had been anxious that the petition should be read, in hopes that he should be able to concur with the sentiments contained in it, and he must admit that it appeared to him to be most unexceptionable, and to be stated with great propriety and moderation. He must also, before he replied to the question of the hon. gentleman, request the clerk to read the resolutions of the 15th of May, 1823."That this House is anxious for the accomplishment of this purpose at the earliest period that shall be compatible with the well-being of the slaves themselves, with the safety of the colonies, with a fair and equitable consideration of the interests of private property.""That, through a determined and persevering, but at the same time judicious and temperate, enforcement of such measures, this House looks forward to a progressive improvement in the character of the slave population, such as may prepare them for a participation in those civil rights and privileges which are enjoyed by other classes of his majesty's subjects:"Resolved, nem. con. That it is expedient to adopt effectual and decisive measures for meliorating the condition of the slave population in his majesty's colonies:Mr. Secretary Canning
982981980979978977976975974 then proceeded to state, that he was anxious to have the resolutions read, because as it had been stated, that a system of slavery was totally incompatible with the British constitution and the spirit of the Christian religion, he was desirous that it should be clearly understood in what degree he differed from this proposition; for if this doctrine were to be admitted to its full extent, the obvious inference would be, that slavery must not be permitted to exist one moment longer; all discretion
982981980979978977976975974Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, that St. Vincent's, Tobago, St. Kitt's, Dominica, Antigua, Grenada, and St. Lucia had passed laws permitting the admissibility of negro evidence. With regard to manumission in the sense given to it by the hon. and learned gentleman, only one colony had permitted it. The instruction regarding the non-separation of families had been adopted by five of the colonies, by Tobago, St. Kitt's, Grenada, St. Lucia, and Dominica. In the island of St. Vincent the whip was completely abolished.Mr. Secretary Canning
987986 rose, he said, for the purpose of cautioning hon. gentlemen against using any expressions which might tend to irritate the feelings of persons who were in any degree opposed to the measure which they advocated. His apology for giving this caution, if any apology were necessary, must be, that the use of language of that description was calculated more than any other thing to throw obstacles in the way of that amelioration of the condition of the slaves which was so earnestly desired. That which appeared to him to be the most prudent course would be to proceed slowly and moderately; and, having ascertained what regulations were likely to attain the object they had in view, to put it plainly to the several colonies, either to adopt or reject the measures which the parliament had suggested, and which he hoped, from the bottom of his heart, they would unanimously agree to act upon. He was equally convinced that it was of the highest importance to avoid all irritating and exasperating language, because that was directly calculated to induce the colonists not to concur in the measures which the House should recommend. He was sure there could be no difference of opinion as to the importance of having the concurrence of those colonists. Any thing that the legislature wished to effect, would be much better performed by willing than by unwilling witnesses. When he said this, he was sure it would not be supposed that he felt any thing like indifference to the amelioration of the condition of the slaves, in as speedy, and in as ample a manner as could be. He could assure the House that it was his warmest wish to see this carried into effect; and he had every reason to believe that it would be better, as well as sooner accomplished by being recommended to the West-India colonists in the language of friendly opinion, and left to their sense of humanity, and of their common interests. It could not be in better than in their own hands, because their experience and knowledge would enable them to ameliorate the condition
987986Mr. Secretary Peel
992991990 said, he was anxious to say a few words in furtherance of the remarks which had been made by his right hon. friend. If the subject were unincumbered with other considerations, and were one upon which the House could at once effectually and satisfactorily legislate, he should have wished that the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman had been brought forward without delay. But, if the House entertained a strong opinion that the measures which had been taken by the government were such as were calculated to accomplish the objects proposed by parliament, with respect to the improvement of the condition of the slaves in our West-Indian colonies—he must confess that he should see with deep regret the hon. and learned gentleman opposite prevail, in any thing like an attempt to wrest from the government the management of so momentous an undertaking; in the conduct of which they had thus far succeeded in obtaining the approbation of hon. gentlemen, as it should seem, on all sides. Any body who had looked at all the various details of this great question with that degree of minuteness and accuracy which the facilities of the office which he held, had enabled him to exercise, would strongly feel that it was of the utmost importance to clear away all misconceptions about the subject, in order to arrive at the accomplishment of the object which it was wished to attain. Now, any hon. gentleman who had examined the various protests made in various colonies against the measures of the government, must have at once perceived that those protests invariably turned upon the assumption that the adoption of the views of this House would destroy the now subsisting relations between the slave and the master—would weaken the authority at present exercised by the latter over the former, and thereby deteriorate the property of the master in a fatal degree. In exact proportion as that erroneous conviction might fade away before, not only the power of argument but the more convincing test of experiment, the opposition of the colonists and the colonial legislatures to these measures would give way. And he put it to hon. gentlemen, with reference to the facts of the case, whether such opposition arose out of any abstract love of slavery on the part of the West-India
992991990Mr. Wilmot Horton
 expressed his perfect concurrence in the course proposed by his majesty's government—a course which, without injuring the interests of any class of the colonists, would eventually promote the prosperity of all.Mr. Keith Douglas
999 professed his acquiescence in the views of the right hon. Secretary, as to the colonies. He agreed with him,
999Mr. R. Gordon
 complained of the violent language used by the petitioners, and contended that there could not be a greater grievance inflicted on the country than cheap bread. Who were to purchase potteries, if corn became cheap? It was not cheap corn, but good rents, good profits, and well-paid labour that were required to restore the country to prosperity.Mr. Robertson
1001l. referred to his uniform support of the lowest import price, when the question of the Corn-laws was before the House. At the same time he thought that those who fostered the prejudices of the people upon this subject, did not take the best mode of advocating their own interests. It was quite impossible to have a low price of corn with a taxation of 60,000,0001001l.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that, on the part of the agricultural labourers, he put in a claim. They must be thrown out of employment, if the price of bread should be reduced too low; and, in legislating on the subject, the House was bound to consider equally all classes of the community.Mr. Bennett
l. said, he did not advocate dear corn, but he had given it as his opinion, that it was impossible to have cheap corn with an annual taxation of 60,000,000l.Mr. Calcraft
 thought, that every member would agree with him, that cheap and dear were relative terms. Cheap corn, according to the hon. member for Aberdeen, meant corn at four or five shillings a bushel. Now if the sale of corn at that price would enable the grower to pay the taxes, he should rejoice to let the country have corn at that price; but he thought that government would not be able to carry on its operations if corn were reduced to that level. He objected to the position that, supposing we permitted the importation of corn, those who imported it would take from us the Value in manufactures. The position was contradicted by fact; for the corn that had been imported into this country had always been paid for in coin, the produce of the country.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he could hot deny that such an address had been issued by him to the place alluded to; but be did not see that there was anything contained in it which would prevent him from opposing, as he had always done, any innovations, founded upon an undefined speculative plan of parliamentary reform.Mr. Grenfell
1007 admitted, that it was the duty of the House to oppose, as far as possible, any practices which might tend to defeat the fairness and purity with which elections ought to be conducted. He objected, however, to the proposition of the noble lord to empower a committee in the manner suggested by the noble lord. The manner of forming such a committee might tend to defeat the very end proposed, because it would only secure, that one member (he who presented the petition) in favour of the petitioner should be on the committee. The expense of the investigation would also form another and
1007Mr. Wynn
10241023 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, had concluded his speech with observations which, though they very naturally grew out of the subject, were not, however, necessarily connected with the question more immediately under consideration. Though he did not feel himself called upon to follow the hon. and learned gentleman in these observations, he trusted that neither he nor the House would, on that account, conclude that he felt less interested in the subject, or was less anxious to see the intentions of government and of the House carried into effect, for the amelioration of the condition of slaves, and the final extinction of slavery itself. Though fully prepared to concur with him in all he had said with respect to the great evils inseparable from slavery, and the only effectual cure for those evils, he would not detain the House by entering into these questions. He must, however, guard the House against the impression which might be produced by some observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman; particularly that in which it was asserted, that the law had been corruptly violated. He would undertake to convince the House, by a plain statement of facts, that the duke of Manchester and the public authorities must have felt convinced, by what had occurred among the slaves in the northern districts of Jamaica, that rebellious intentions existed among them. The proof that such was the impression on the mind of the duke of Manchester, was to be found in the demands he made for additional troops, and his preparations to meet the danger which circumstances induced him to believe threatened the island. It must be recollected that he, as governor, was intrusted with the protection and super intendance of a place peculiarly situated, where the disproportion was so great between the whites and the slave population, and where, of course, the apprehension of any rebellious or insurrectionary movement ought to have inspired the greatest caution. There was every reason to believe that the slaves, in the northern parts of the island, had been influenced in their
10241023Mr. Wilmot Horton
1032***1031103010291028102710261025 proceeded.—The last clause of the act was still more severe and sweeping than any to which he had yet referred; for it provided that, "whereas it is necessary to prevent the secret meetings of slaves, and their administering of oaths at such meetings, by drinking of rum mixed with gunpowder, &c. Be it further enacted, that all persons found guilty of the same shall suffer death or transportation for life, as the court may direct."—As a commentary on what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman with respect to the evils inseparable from slavery, he might say that the act,
1032***1031103010291028102710261025Mr. Wilmot Horton
104410431042104110401039 said, that in rising to offer a few observations upon the
104410431042104110401039The Attorney General
10521051105010491048l.104710461045 said, that feeling so deep an interest as he did in every question connected with the administration of justice in the colonies, he trusted the House would indulge him while he expressed his sentiments upon the proceedings which were the subject of the present discussion.
10521051105010491048l.104710461045Dr. Lushington
10571056105510541053 said, he perfectly concurred in all the sentiments expressed by his hon. and learned friend in his generous abhorrence of slavery, and in his eloquent denunciation of the abuses of slavery. As some difference, however, must still prevail between their opinions, he would take the liberty of offering a few words to the attention of the House, as to the points upon which he differed from his hon. and learned friend; and a few words as to the points upon which they were agreed. If the resolution of his hon. and learned friend had only for its object a prospective improvement in the mode of trial which obtained in the colonies, he might have yielded his assent to it; for the amended resolution of his hon. friend near him was to that very effect. But, when his hon. and learned friend went beyond that line, he proposed something, to which he at least could not give his concurrence. Now, the fact was, that the hon. and learned member's proposition consisted of two parts. That hon. and learned member, not only required that the negro should be equalised, in point of the mode of trial, with the free white man; but he asserted, in pretty direct terms, the gross malversation of all those who had been concerned in the late trials. With that charge it was impossible for him to agree. He would call the attention of the House to one of the prominent parts of the hon. and learned member's resolution. It asserted, that we "contemplated, with sorrow, the perversion of law, and the violation of justice, displayed in the late trials." Now, the House could not adopt that resolution, without being prepared to state, almost in so many words, that the judge who had presided, the jury who had tried and convicted, and the duke of Manchester, who had suffered the law to take
10571056105510541053The Solicitor-General
 said, that the boy had not been sworn in either case, and this was the great objection to the course of proceeding.The Attorney-General
 said, it was slavery that he had spoken of as an accursed system. He had not applied the phrase to any portion of the subject now under consideration.The Solicitor-General
10711070106910681067 said, that if the hon. and learned gentleman, who had just sat down, could not suffer this motion to pass without recording his abhorrence of the system which had led to it, neither could he (Mr. Canning) consent to vote for the amendment which, by preference, he would place upon the hon. and learned mover's resolutions, without at the same time recording, that it was not from yielding to him in any one of the general sentiments of indignation which he had used respecting the whole colour of this transaction that he had come to a different conclusion, but that on grounds of a more limited nature he preferred giving his concurrence to the amendment rather than the original motion. Indeed, he thought the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last had himself admitted—at least to that extent went the principles which he had laid down—that to the original resolutions he could not grant an undivided concurrence [no, no]. Such was certainly the tendency of the hon. and learned gentleman's argument; for he had declared
10711070106910681067Mr. Secretary Canning
100610051004 said, that in rising to move for leave to bring in the bill, of which he had given notice, he did not intend to trespass long on the attention of the House. In former days it had been found, that when complaints had been made to the House respecting the manner in which elections had been made, the decision of the House on those complaints had been so much influenced, that it had been found necessary to adopt a different system respecting them. The House had been obliged (and he did not think it much to their credit that they had been so obliged) to impose upon a select, number of their own body the task of deciding, upon their oaths, as to the justice of the complaints made to them. The remedy which had thus been applied, it was generally admitted, had been successful; and so it was as far as regarded the question between party and party, but it was not as successful as far as regarded the interests, of the public; for it was evident that, there might be corrupt elections, and yet that the committee chosen under the law, commonly called the Grenville act, could not apply the remedy which the case demanded. It might happen that there had been corrupt practices in which the petitioner had engaged, and which he was therefore afraid to bring forward, because he durst not stand the test Which in, the committee, would be applied to him. It might also be the desire of the petitioner, who sought to set aside an election on specific grounds, to try another election, when he intended to practise those corrupt practices; which, if they were disclosed to the House, would defeat the return of his opponent. In all these cases, it was manifest, that the pubic had no protection, and that there were no powers vested in the committee to pursue the matter further than the mere decision upon the merits of the case before them. The public, too, had, by the operation of this act, and the appointment of a committee for such purposes, lost a certain degree of security which they had formerly, when those questions were fully and amply discussed by the whole House of Commons; and when it was in the power of all its members to judge of the
100610051004Lord John Russell
 said, he intended to propose that the expenses should be paid as in other committees, and that notice of the application should be given to the borough, who would be allowed to oppose by their counsel and agents.Lord John Russell
993 blamed the government for their backwardness in carrying on the work of improving the slaves. He thought they had been criminally negligent in not insisting that the colonial legislatures should take the necessary steps for ameliorating the condition of the slaves. He referred to some of the acts still in force in some of the colonies, particularly one, in which a slave was declared punishable for riding or driving a horse except at a gentle pace. Could the condition of the slaves be said to be in a course of amelioration when laws such as these were still cherished in the West India Islands? It was now three years since the Resolutions referred to had been agreed to; and yet how little had been since done. He did not want to press the government, but he thought that some time should be speci-
993Mr. Sykes
984 said, that the power of taking by bequest, a point of no small importance, had been secured to the slave
984Mr. Canning
989 expressed his astonishment that there should be so great a difference as seemed to exist between the West-India proprietors resident in this country, and those who were in the colonies, He had observed with great regret, that a disposition existed in the colonies not to listen to the recommendations of government, and that great apprehensions were expressed as to the injurious effect which they might have upon the property of the persons interested. The same objections and the same reluctance had been manifested when the abolition of the slavetrade was proposed. The ruin of the colonies was predicted then; but the result, instead of justifying the gloomy apprehensions which were entertained, was now a topic of universal congratulation. He had no doubt that the same effect would be produced in the present instance if his majesty's ministers would act the same part. He, for one, begged that they would do so; for he should be sorry to see the subject out of the hands of the government; whose temper and moderation would ensure the protection of the
989Mr. Philips
 was surprised, that the hon. member for Wareham should say, that it would be a serious disadvantage to the country to have cheap corn. In his opinion, nothing was so injurious to commerce as the existing system of Corn-laws; and without commerce the country could not maintain its rank in the scale of nations.Mr. Philips
 presented a petition from the operatives of the Staffordshire potteries, praying for an alteration in the Corn-laws. The learned gentleman described the petitioners as an industrious and suffering part of the population, and observed, that though there were many points in the petition in which he agreed with the petitioners, there were others from which he must withhold his concurrence.Mr. Brougham
998997 said, he wished to advert shortly to what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend who spoke last, and also from the hon. member for Montrose. He denied that there was any intention, or any attempt to inflame the feelings on this subject. The petitions—he did not mean to say all, but the greater part—were drawn up with temperance and moderation. Any warmth of feeling that had manifested itself, referred only to that part of the subject on which there was no difference of feeling, either in the House or out of it; he meant the enormous practical abuses that prevailed in the colonies. To the existence of these abuses they had not merely the testimony of travellers, which might be often too highly coloured. The strongest appeals to feeling were made, not in the writings of those who advocated the abolition of colonial slavery, but in the speeches of the colonial legislatures themselves. To the surviving commissioner, the other having unfortunately died, they were indebted for an account, which might be relied upon, of the most appalling details of the infernal system. But was it to be contended, because he (Mr. Brougham) spoke thus of the system, that he was therefore an advocate for precipitate and heedless emancipation. None of the petitions called upon them to pursue so rapid a course. By compulsory manumission he did not mean to intimate that the whole mass of slaves were, at once, and without further preparation, to be set free; but that, if a slave should become possessed of the means of purchasing his freedom, some provision should be made for compelling the owner to grant it, on a fair appraisement. That means should be taken suddenly to emancipate the whole mass, he did not now, nor ever did, maintain. For the slaves themselves it would not be the most advantageous way of proceeding. With respect to the work alluded to by the right hon. gentleman, it was written a quarter of a century back, and if, in the course of that period, he had seen, any reason to alter opinions entertained so far back he would not hesitate to avow it. It was stated in
998997Mr. Brougham
10661065106410631062 said, he differed widely from the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, in his view of the present question, and in his estimate of the nature
10661065106410631062Mr. Brougham
983 said, he rose to ask a question of the right hon. gentleman. The most important of the instructions containe in the Order in Council, without denying the importance of the others, was that which related to the manumission of slaves; meaning thereby not the lowering of the duties hitherto paid upon the manumission, but the power of compelling the master to sell the slave his freedom upon an appraisement. The instruction which was next in importance, was that which related to the competency of slave evidence—meaning thereby the admissibility
983Mr. Brougham
1061 said, he had not intended to have made any observations on the subject now under discussion, but finding that no one connected with the colonies had risen to express an opinion on the subject, and having had the misfortune to succeed to a property in those colonies, he felt it due to himself, to the colonists, and to the House, not to allow that opportunity to pass, of stating that there were persons connected with the colonies, who felt as warmly concerning all these transactions as any of the hon. members on the other side of the House. It was due to the colonists to state, that the sentiments of many of them were perfectly in unison with those of the gentlemen who reprobated these proceedings. He found it the more necessary to make this declaration, because he intended to vote for the amendment of his hon. friend near him, though in most of what had been
1061Mr. Goulburn
10381037 said, he was not complaining of the conduct of any individual, but of the whole system, which was an abominable one; an illustration of which he was giving in this case. That boy William, who was not sworn, contradicted himself; and declared at one time, that persons had been present at meetings, whom at other times he did not mention. The second witness in this same case, a man named Ned, was a thief and an accomplice. Now, let the House consider the nature of this man's evidence. He stated that he was going along the high-road, and there he saw a number of negroes publicly plotting a conspiracy. They were doing this openly, and in a place where any person passing might over-hear them. He walked into the midst of the conspirators, and no objection was made to his presence; he offered them his counsel, they accepted it, and altered the whole of their plans at his suggestion. This was the whole of the direct proof against them, and even this was contradictory to that of the boy. The boy swore that there was a large concourse of negroes; the man swore that there was only six persons present. The boy said that there were plenty of women, the man asserted there were none. There were many other contradictions equally glaring, in the testimony of these two witnesses. There was no collateral evidence given, nor was there any corroborative evidence, save the testimony of Mr. Gordon, who stated, that, on the night in question, he heard a gun fired; that he arose from his bed and walked about his room for two hours; that he looked out of his window to see what was the matter; that he saw two negroes walking under his window with white frocks on (no doubt the garb of rebellion); that he heard one of them say "It won't do;" but what "would not
10381037Mr. F. Buxton
 in reply, said, that satisfied as many gentlemen seemed to be with the declaration of ministers, he could not help being entirely disappointed with it. As for the picture which had been adverted to as circulated by the friends or abolition, he repelled the accusation. They were incapable of degrading themselves by sanctioning such publications; and he himself had never seen the paper in question but once, and that had been in the possession of a West Indian. He was pleased with the observation of an hon. member, which had called up the hon. baronet; because the hon. baronet's testimony settled the question as to the comparative state of the law in the East and West Indies. In the East Indies, if a slave absented himself six months from his master, he had only to go before a judge when taken, who at once liberated him from prison, and sent him to his duty; while, in the West Indies for a similar desertion, he was liable to be hanged or transported. With the general issue, however, of what had passed, he was little satisfied. The delay which was talked of would produce no good. Some trifling concessions, it was possible, the colonists might make; but all the main and most objectionable features of their system, the House might rely upon it, they would most obstinately adhere to.Mr. F. Buxton,
1036103510341033 said, that honourable gentlemen on the other side had uniformly deprecated all such discussions as the present, upon the ground that they tended to keep alive all those violent and angry feelings which were said to exist in our colonies, and were described to have their origin in the agitation of the question of slave emancipation in this country. For himself, he was always infavour of those discussions, because he felt that they were productive of great benefit to the important object which he had in view. Not a meeting took place, not a discussion arose in that House on the subject, in which some advantage was not gained, some concession was not made, in favour of the negroes. Even that night, and thus early in the discussion, some important concessions were made by the hon. Secretary for the Colonies. It was not his intention to follow his hon. friend through all the mazes of his argument, but this he had admitted, that no such proceedings would be for a moment allowed in this country; and further, his admissions proved, that where slavery existed, impartial justice could not be obtained. Let the House look at the series of injustice and cruelty which had been perpetrated within the last three years. First came the trial, he might call it the murder of Mr. Smith, the Missionary; then followed the massacre, he could use no better term, of the negroes at Demerara, merely because they wished to know what was their real situation; close upon this followed the persecution of the Missionary Shrewsbury; then came the deportation of two free natives from Jamaica; next, the Berbice Papers; and last of all the proceedings at Jamaica, which occupied their attention that night. Now, he would undertake to show, from the evidence before them, that there was no plot at St. Mary's, St. James's, or St. George's. With respect to the proceedings at St. George's, there were three witnesses, Mack, Corberand, and Hypolite. One stated that the former was a great liar; his young master said, he would not believe him, and his old master said, he had a bad opinion of him. He would undertake to shew that the evidence of Corberand was altogether false and con-
1036103510341033Mr. Fowell Buxton
 wished to know whether any thing had been done in Jamaica to secure to the negroes the bequests made to them? He asked this question, because the governor, in a speech to the House of Assembly in December last, had told them, that another session had passed away without any thing having been done for the amelioration of the slave-population of the island. From every thing which had transpired since of the proceedings of the planters, it was not likely that any amelioration had been subsequently agreed to.Mr. F. Buxton
973972971970969 rose, pursuant to notice, to present a petition from the inhabitants of London, for the Abolition of Slavery in the Colonies. It was, he said, more numerously signed than any petition that had ever before been presented to the House; the number of signatures being no less than 72,000. Following the petitions already presented that evening from many other populous and enlightened places, it proved beyond all doubt, the great and lively interest taken by the public with regard to this question. He should therefore avail himself of this opportunity, to ask the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs, what was the course his majesty's government intended to pursue, as to the amelioration of the condition of the slave population in the colonies? He would not enter into the general argument of the question but he would state the precise position in which, at this moment, it stood. In 1823, his majesty's government said, that it was a question of such vast importance, and of such extreme delicacy, that they desired to have it placed in their hands. Those by whom it had been brought forward consented to the proposition, and it was accordingly transferred to the care of government. On that occasion the right hon. gentleman stated his opinions very fully regarding the general question of slavery; and, having since attentively and deliberately considered the right hon. gentleman's speech, he could find no material distinction between his views and those of the original promoters of the discussion. The right hon. gentleman was far from attempting to justify the existence of slavery, as a desirable or even tolerable state of society; and he had admitted, that the principles of the Christian religion, and the spirit of the British constitution, were equally favourable to the extension of freedom to all who lived under their influence and protection. The right hon. gentleman was a decided advocate of the gradual extinction of what he treated as an unquestionable evil. He would not trouble the House by reading at length the Resolutions with which the right hon. gentleman, on that occasion, concluded his speech. It was enough to say, that
973972971970969Mr. Fowell Buxton
 said, that the House seemed to pass over entirely the state of slavery in which many of the natives of the East Indies were held; a slavery which was more abject and degrading than that in the West Indies.Mr. Grossett
994 said, that the only slaves within the Company's territories in India were dancing girls, who were bought when young for the amusement of rich persons. If however any of these slaves ran away from their masters, there was no power by which they could be compelled to return; there was therefore, a great distinction between the state of slavery in the East and in the West ladies. He would appeal to the late chief justice of Bengal (sir H. East) for the correctness of his statement. With respect to the question before the House, there was no man who was more anxious to see slavery in the West-India colonies abolished than himself; but he was not desirous to have that great object effected in a manner which was more likely to prove injurious to the slaves, than to add to
994Mr. Hume
 defended the statements of the petitioners. Cheap corn would cause the country to flourish, since every person who imported corn would be compelled to take our manufactures in return for it.Mr. Hume
—That is not the charge.Mr. Denman
102210211020101910181017101610151014101310121011101010091008 in bringing before the House the motion of which he had given notice on the first day of the present session, begged to premise, that, although the papers upon which that motion was founded, had been ordered on the 1st day of March last year, yet they had not been bid upon the table until a late period of the session, and that he had not had an opportunity of reading them, until some time in the recess. He was well aware how extremely difficult it was to arrest the attention of the House at the present moment of danger and alarm, unless upon some question connected with commercial distress, or the state of the currency; but yet he thought, that the subject to which he was about to implore their consideration, was one in which they could do more good than they had been able to effect in all the protracted discussions
102210211020101910181017101610151014101310121011101010091008Mr. Denman,
107410731072 claimed the indulgence of the House while he briefly replied to some of the observations of the hon. gentlemen opposite. In the first place, he must deny that he had withheld from them any knowledge of his particular motion. On the contrary, more than a fortnight ago, he had communicated its import fully. Still, he felt so strong a desire that their decision should go forth unanimously, that he begged to assure the right hon. gentleman, no partiality to any particular, phraseology of his own would prevent the adoption of his amendment, could he consent with any sense of justice, to compromise the imperative duty which that House owed to the country, in maintaining and guarding the due administration of justice. He had early in the evening regretted his inability to do justice to this subject, and had anticipated that his defects would be abundantly repaired by his hon. and learned, friends who followed him. The hon. gentlemen opposite had also come to his aid, so as greatly to narrow the point in contention. Upon all the strong points they were clearly agreed, and were now only disputing, upon a quibbling fallacy. It was broadly stated, that the lamentable proceedings which he had detailed were by the laws of Jamaica justified. He would reply, no, and he spoke from the Jamaica code, which, thought the courtesy of the Colonial Secretary, he held in his hand. In what part of this code were they bound to bring these, parties to trial within two days? Why try them without the assistance of counsel, without having the opportunity of calling, a single witness? In what page was it prescribed, that eight men should be tried and convicted before one and the same jury? Where was it enjoined that
107410731072Mr. Denman
 declared himself hostile to any measure which should have for its object to set the slaves free at the expense of their masters. He very much doubted whether such beneficial effects would result from free labour, as some persons anticipated. He begged leave to refer the House to the example of St. Domingo. That island formerly exported considerable quantities of sugar, but now the free negroes were even unable to produce good sugar, and could only make a kind of molasses. He deprecated any interference with private property. The emancipation of the black population was a subject that ought to be touched upon very tenderly. If a compulsory measure were resorted to, the planters ought to receive compensation. The petitioners from London had, he observed, stated their willingness to contribute towards a fund for compensating the planters for the loss of their slaves, in the event of parliament thinking it proper to emancipate them.Mr. T. Wilson
 agreed, that the sense of the House ought to be expressed in a tone which would make an impression upon the colonial assemblies. He deprecated menace; but if those assemblies pertinaciously refused to adopt measures for ameliorating the condition of the slaves, the House ought to take the law into its own hands. He did not at present name any time for such a course; but decidedly the day ought not to be a late one. He hoped that the colonists might yet take warning before it was too late.Mr. W. Bankes
985 said, that government ought to give parliament distinctly to understand, that it would be called upon to legislate for the colonies in case the bills which the right hon. gentleman had mentioned were not carried in the next session of the colonial legislatures. In alluding to the parochial resolutions of the towns in Jamaica, the hon. member observed, that he would not charge upon the colonial assembly of that island the vain and idle threats which they contained. It was evident, however, to all who had read the duke of Manchester's speech to that body, that it was animated by a spirit of inveterate hostility to any amelioration in the present slave system. He begged the House to attend to a few paragraphs in it. The duke of Manchester addressed them thus:—"Another year has been allowed to pass away without your having taken any effectual measure for the improvement of the condition of the negroes. It does not become me to anticipate the result of the disappointment of the British government, when it learns that the reiterated representations which it has made to you to do that which your own interests require, no less than the comforts of those who depend upon you, have totally failed. In obeying the instructions which I have received from his majesty's ministers, I earnestly press upon you the necessity of doing something, if not to disarm your enemies, at least to satisfy your friends, and to convince parliament that the urgent representations which the government, in obedience to its directions, have made to you, have not been entirely disregarded." This was not his language, but the language of the duke of Manchester, the governor of the island. Had the House since the arrival of that document, learned that the colonial legislature had shown any symptom of repentance? Not one single syllable had transpired to that effect. On the contrary, in that very debate which terminated in the rejection of the instructions contained in the Order of Council, there was not the slightest symptom of yielding exhibited, though all the speakers must have known the ticklish station in which their cause stood. The contumacy which they then exhibited displayed a spirit which, in his opinion, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs would find it impossible to subdue by kindness. He might depend upon it that it would only
985Mr. W. Smith
10591058 said, he understood, then, that the hon. and learned gentleman did admit the system of slavery to be an accursed system; and he had defended the
10591058Mr. W. Smith
 congratulated the House on the progress of more liberal views and sentiments with respect to the extinction of negro1 slavery, and on the active share which his majesty's ministers were taking in the amelioration of the condition of that portion of the subjects of the empire. In what a new situation were the colonists and inhabitants placed by the concession's made that night! He would not weaken the eloquence of his hon. friends by going over the points of evidence on which they had touched. Her rejoiced to hear the expression of the Solicitor-general, who called the West-India system, an accursed system.Mr. W. Smith
996 said, that having been appealed to by the hon. member, he could only state that he could give no information from his personal knowledge of the practice in the interior of India. With respect to those parts of which he had any knowledge, he believed the hon. member was correct. He begged to offer a few observations on the question before the House. He was one of those unfortunate persons alluded to, who possessed property in the West Indies; but he had always thought it his duty to have it managed in the way most advantageous to the slaves. Three years back he concurred in the question for the abolition of slavery, and he had seen no reason since to repent the vote he then gave. He had also concurred in every measure for ameliorating the condition of the slaves; and, on his own estate, had directed every thing to be done with a view to that object. With respect to the last question agitated in the assembly of Jamaica, for admitting the evidence of slaves, he had recommended the adoption of it to his friends there, and though lately rejected, he had no doubt that it would ultimately be successful. In this he had acted from principle, not from any wish to ingratiate himself with the House, or the country. He strongly disapproved of the attempts made to inflame the prejudices of the people. The great object should be to do the most good with the least possible injury. It could not lead to any good effect to hold out threats. It tended only to excite opposition; for all public bodies were naturally riotous when other bodies interfered with what they conceived to be their rights. It was not, in his opinion, advisable to call upon government to enter into any particular pledge upon the subject. It might tend only to irritation, and no measure could be successfully carried into effect without the concurrence of those who were interested in its execution. It was desirable that instruction should be given to the slaves as much as possible, and it gave him pleasure to find, that throughout all the colonies the religious establishments were received with open hands, and without any instance of disapprobation. This was a proof, that when property was not concerned, there was no objection to any thing that could lead to the amelioration of the condition of the slaves. Where a question of property, however, arose, it was very natural for the colonial pro-
996Sir Hyde East
 said, that the slaves in the West Indies suffered a great deal from the suspense in which they were kept as to the time when their slavery was to cease. He thought that a law ought to be passed, putting an end to it at a certain period.Sir F. Blake
988 regretted that the conduct of the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica had been such as to Call for the censure of every moderate person. He was sure that in that assembly there were many individuals who had the strongest feelings In favour of the amelioration of the slaves, and who, notwithstanding the irritation under which they appeared recently to have laboured, were as anxious as any one in this country to accomplish that which he believed was the common wish of mankind. He was free to confess, that there were many topics on which, if the legislative bodies of the various colonies did not act promptly, the parliament must. The one alluded to by the right hon. gentleman was foremost among them. His earliest prejudices were connected with horror at the treatment of the slaves, and his first wish was to see their condition ameliorated. At the same time, it was not improbable that he might differ from many of those who entertained the same desire, as to the shortest and best mode of effecting that object. He thought that, in the first place, the masters ought to be conciliated. In his opinion, any language of irritation, of censure, and, more than all, of a threatening kind, would postpone, perhaps effectually prevent,
988Mr. Scarlett
1060 said, that his hon. and learned friend was entitled to the thanks of the House for bringing forward the subject of West-India abuses. The House of Commons was the legitimate sanctuary where justice should be found; and he hoped that the appeal which had that night been made on behalf of those who were unable to state their wrongs, would not be made in vain. The hon. and learned gentlemen opposite called upon the House not to support the proposition, because it would amount to a vote of censure upon the government of the colony, and upon all those connected with the proceedings which formed the subject of complaint, which was the very object which he wished to see effected. A vote of censure should not only be passed on the governor, but on the judge and the jury, by whose verdict the lives of our fellow-men were taken away. That act
1060Sir Robert Wilson
1003l.l.s.s. observed, that the declaration that the landlord alone was interested in the high price of corn was a declaration which every landlord could positively contradict. He was convinced, that from 501003l.l.s.s.Mr. Gooch
1002 observed, that the hon. member for Somersetshire had said, that corn imported into England was always paid for in coin, the produce of the country. Until the hon. baronet had given him that information, he did not know that coin was the produce of England. He was aware that there were some small gold mines in Ireland; but he had never heard, that there were any in England. He had always understood, that gold was imported into England, and therefore if the corn imported into this country were paid for in gold, that gold must first have been purchased by the industry and the manufactures of the country. Another hon. member, who had put for-
1002Lord Milton
 said, that a bill had been received in this country which had been introduced in the colonial assembly of St. Vincent's. It had been read a second time, and ordered to be committed; and he supposed that ere now it had been passed into a law. This and all the other acts which had emanated from the colonial legislatures would be laid before the House. His right hon. friend had not stated, that in the acts of any of the colonies the whole of the points mentioned in the Orders in Council had been embraced. Many of them, had, however, been introduced.Mr. Wilmot Horton
1081 said, he was perfectly ready to agree to the proposition of the hon. and learned member. Nay, he would do more. He would lay upon the table a tabular statement of the different acts passed by the colonial legislatures, with their different clauses, so that the whole question might at one view be brought under the consideration of the House. It would be some time before this could be done, owing partly, to the great increase of business in the colonial department, arising out of the recent discussions respecting the slave question, and partly to the illness of the colonial counsel, which had been brought on by the severe application to the duties of his office. He must take that opportunity of stating, that the hon. member for Aberdeen, by his economy, had been chiefly instrumental in preventing the public departments from being manned in a way necessary for the efficient discharge of their duty. It would be much better, if the present system were not altered, for the House to pass a resolution to absolve the public departments from all responsibility. The colonial counsel had been employed in his office during the whole of last year, not less than ten hours a day. That was too much for any man. Unless the House would furnish him with assistance, the public business must, in a case of illness, stand still. He pledged himself, when the colonial estimates should be brought forward, to show that it was impossible that the public business could be transacted without an augmented establishment. With respect to Demerara, the court of policy of that colony deserved great praise for the readiness with which they had adopted the recommendations of the Order in Council. The hon. and learned member was mistaken when he stated, that the slaves in none of the colonies were permitted to cultivate staple commodities. They had that privilege
1081Mr. Wilmot Horton
1082 doubted whether the gentlemen in that House who belonged to the profession of the law would accede to the doctrine which the hon. member seemed desirous to establish; namely, that a counsel would allow his private feelings to impede the performance of his public duty. He, in his conscience, believed what he had heard Mr. Stephen himself state, that, on any subject connected with the West-Indian interests, he had never had any communication, direct or indirect, with his father. There was no man to whom, if he wished for advice or information on subjects of difficulty connected with the West Indies, he would sooner apply than Mr. Stephen. The hon. member seemed to labour under a complete mistake as to the duties of Mr. Stephen's office. He was merely an executive officer, and could originate nothing. He might state as a proof that there was no sort of understanding between the father and son, that the former had published a pamphlet in which he called the Order in Council, which was drawn up by his son, a "parcel of trash." He was glad that he had been presented
1082Mr. Wilmot Horton
1083 said, that, in opposing the motion for the Speaker leaving the chair, he could assure the House, he was far from being actuated by any spirit of factious opposition. Thus much he wished at the outset to claim for himself and for his party, who had always been disposed to support a system of liberal policy. He had shown that his own disposition was not unfavourable to such a system, when he, last year, withdrew his opposition to the estimates of the noble lord. But the circumstances of the country had been greatly altered since that period, and in the present crisis, when the nation was labouring under the pressure of general distress, it was the duty of every member, to see that the burthens imposed upon his constituents were as light as possible. Besides this consideration, there were objections to the condition of the army as constituted at present, which did not apply to it, when the noble lord came down with his propositions last year. If the motion with which he intended to conclude, should be agreed to, which was for a select committee to inquire into the military expenditure of the country, he had no objection to vote for a committee of supply, to grant such a sum as would
1083Colonel Davies
 said he would not follow the hon. gentleman through the various statements into which he had entered. He did not think he had assigned any sufficient reason for the appointment of a select committee. The only ground stated for the motion was, that the committee might inquire into the military expenditure. Now, the usual course was, to discuss the various items in a committee of the whole House, when there was a sufficient opportunity of fully considering every point. He must therefore oppose the amendment, and the hon. member must forgive him for not replying at present to his observations.Lord Palmerton
1106 adverted to the inconsistency of the hon. member for Aberdeen, in calling for low prices at one time, and attributing distress to them at another. He had generally voted with ministers upon this subject: but he really thought they did not know what they were about. They were opening our markets to a competition with foreign nations whose labourers lived at less expense, and could Work cheaper than our own; and they were, at the same time, raising the standard of the currency. If they persevered, fewer commodities would be consumed,
1106Mr. Robertson
s.s.11091108 said, that, as he understood the hon. member for Montrose, his proposition was, that the volunteer establishment should be abolished. He
s.s.11091108Mr. Secretary Peel
 considered every shilling that went to the support of volunteer cavalry thrown away. What were these troops fit for? In cases of internal disturbances they were not fit persons to quell riot and disorder. Their local connexion with the county made them parties in every disturbance, and they were therefore unfitted to interpose between conflicting parties. The disturbances at Manchester afforded a strong instance of this. It was otherwise with the regular army.Sir R. Heron
 seconded the motion of his noble friend. The yeomanry corps consisted of few masters and many servants, and were not that independent sort of yeomanry, paying their own expenses which he should like to see in the country. The regular troops were better in cases of disturbances than the yeomanry. He would like to see our cavalry plain English troops. They were the best cavalry in Europe; and he did not see any reason for dressing them out in mustachios, to the annoyance of the men themselves, and to the disgust of those who beheld them. He wished to see them plainly dressed, without any of the fopperies of foreign troops.Sir R. Fergusson
 defended the present constitution of the yeomanry cavalry. Their utility in preserving the public peace was to be estimated, not so much by the riots they had suppressed, as by those they had prevented. Even in the conduct of the Manchester yeomanry, in 1816, he had always been of opinion, that there were many points perfectly defensible.Mr. Wynn
 gave notice, that he would, on Monday, when the report should be brought up, propose the reduction of the estimate to some definite number. On referring to the army estimates for 1820, he found that those for the present year were quite as burthensome to the nation, in every respect.Mr. Hobhouse
 was of opinion, that while the military establishment was continued on its present scale, the yeomanry force was unnecessary.Mr. Bernal
1112 said, he wished to protect himself against being supposed to participate in the views of his hon. friends, who thought that the interference of a Standing army with the civil power was preferable, in a constitutional point of view, to that of a yeomanry force. He perfectly agreed with those who considered the yeomanry as the constitutional force of the country; and notwithstanding what had been said of their inefficiency, he had observed them in the two counties with which he was best acquainted, Wiltshire and Berkshire, to be both, as to appearance and discipline, a highly respectable and useful force. In every point of view they did credit to the country. He objected, however, to the custom of taking them out on permanent duty, as it was called, because that practice had a direct tendency to destroy their constitutional character, and convert them into a body of a very different nature. The farmer could not afford to leave his home for seven or eight days, and he therefore was obliged to send a servant as his subtitute. In this way a sort of armed police might be raised; but, unless the farmers themselves filled the ranks, it would be no real yeomanry force. Reference had been made to the conduct of the Manchester yeomanry, in 1816, but that corps was not, properly speaking, a true yeomanry force, but a body of armed partisans. They had, under peculiar circumstances of public excitement, been brought into action with exasperated feelings, against an unarmed multitude. But that transaction was in no degree discreditable to the genuine yeomanry. He confessed, that no part of the expense of our military establishment was, in his opinion, so little objectionable, as the grant under discussion. But he repeated, that if the object was to preserve the real character of this description of force, the permanent duty ought not to extend beyond three or four days, at the furthest. It was highly desirable, no doubt, to reduce the military charges of the country; but he was not disposed, therefore, to diminish the
1112Sir F. Burdett
 stated, in explanation, that the permanent duty was not imposed upon the yeomanry as an obligation on each particular corps, to be performed at a period fixed by government. The course pursued was, to leave each corps to choose its own time, when it asked for permission to go out for a certain number of days.Mr. Secretary Peel
 denied the utility of the yeomanry cavalry, and opposed the grant altogether.Col. Johnson
 said, that after what had passed, he should not divide the committee.Lord John Russell
l. objected to the existence of a volunteer establishment, for he believed, in most instances, they were kept up for political purposes, and to gratify the party feelings of those by whom they were established. Constituted as volunteer corps were, they produced any thing but concord in the country; and he would much rather see the military called out in aid of the civil authorities, in case of necessity, than have resort to the interference of men who, from local feelings and connexions, were more likely to act from passion than otherwise. He therefore objected to any additional allowance, and moved, as an amendment, that 25,000l.Lord J. Russell
 said, that without the yeomanry the peace of the county which he represented could not have been preserved. He believed, almost every manufacturing establishment in it would have been destroyed.Mr. Davenport
 said, that the House had voted as large a standing army for the present year of tranquillity, as it did immediately after the peace, when Europe was in the most unsettled condition. Under these circumstances, he considered the proposed vote for the yeomanry wholly unnecessary.Mr. Brougham
 then moved, for the "titles of acts passed by the legislatures of the slave colonies since 15th May, 1823, and containing any provisions for promoting the religious instruction of the slaves, or the better observance of the Sabbath; distinguishing the names of the colonies, the dates of the acts, the numbers of the sections in which such provisions are contained, and specifying whether the same acts had been allowed or disallowed by, or are now under the consideration of, the king in council"—Ordered.Mr. Brougham
1080107910781077 said, he had no wish to impute any Intentional misstatement on the subject. He was aware that the accounts that had been received, were as yet imperfect; but undoubtedly there did ap-
1080107910781077Mr. Brougham
 rose for the purpose of asking the hon. Secretary for the Colonies, whether any act of the legislature of St. Vincent's on the subject of improving the condition of the slaves, had recently arrived in this country, and whether it was of that character which would cause its being allowed by the government here? He was anxious that information should be given to the House on the subject of any recent advices received of the proceedings of the colonial legislatures; for, as far as he had been able to ascertain, the statement of the right hon. Secretary, for Foreign Affairs as to the course which some of those legislatures had adopted, was not borne out by the facts that had transpired in this country.Mr. Brougham
1110s.s. conceived, that it was impossible for a yeoman to pay his expenses out of 51110s.s.Mr. Benett
 felt it necessary to say, that Mr. Stephen never made any communications to him. On the contrary, he generally found that gentleman so very reserved, that he preferred transacting business with the hon. secretary.Mr. F. Buxton
11011100l.l.1099l.l.l.l.1098l.10971096l.1095l.l.l.1094l.l.l.10931092 said, that the present situation of the country required that the most serious attention of parliament should be directed to the estimates for this year. They were now called upon to vote the first of those estimates, and the question to be considered was—was the country in a situation to pay that sum? It was very well for the noble Secretary at War to say that we were called upon to make no great increase upon the estimates of last year. But, we had gone on increasing our army expenditure, so gradually, but certainly, from year to year, that even the noble lord himself did not appear sensible of the enormous increase this year, as compared with former years. But the House ought to check this ruinous course of expenditure. Our army, navy, ordnance, and civil estimates, ought to be revised; and, in his view of the case, the whole might be reduced one half. If the House would consider for a moment to what ruinous results this enormous expenditure must lead, those who were called the representatives of the people would not vote for such large establishments as were now called for by ministers. Before they voted these estimates, they ought seriously to consider how much was absolutely necessary to carry on the establishments of the country; and he was aware that he should be charged with arrogance for endeavouring to point out
11011100l.l.1099l.l.l.l.1098l.10971096l.1095l.l.l.1094l.l.l.10931092Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l. said, he would have been satisfied with the application of the new forces to the relief of foreign garrisons, but his complaint still was, that they were chiefly kept at home. If government were sincere, the increase would only have been made in available corps. But, how stood the fact? The Life-guards were 785 men in 1792; they were now 1,305. The increase of the other regiments of cavalry was from 3,037 to 7,014. Were these additional cavalry wanted for the garrisons abroad? The guards had been increased from 3,572 to 5,726. They were not wanted to increase the garrisons abroad? Why not reduce 8,000 of this the most expensive class in the service, when they might keep 16,000 infantry for less money? Each cavalryman cost 74l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 objected to an additional grant for the yeomanry and volunteer establishment. Indeed, he did not see the least necessity for a country enjoying a profound peace to be burthened with a yeomanry establishment, and he should propose its being abolished altogether.Mr. Hume
l. said, that though it was paying the hon. Secretary no compliment, he must declare that he had not been listening to his speech until he had roused him by accusing him of impeding the public service. He really had a right to expect a very different treatment from the hon. Secretary; for last year he had allowed an increase of 1,700l.Mr. Hume
 was of opinion, that if the magistracy of the country were to do their duty with proper vigilance and alacrity, there would be no occasion for the description of force under consideration.Mr. Evans
 bore testimony to the good discipline and general efficiency of the yeomanry cavalry; but it was desirable that they should be inspected by cavalry officers.Sir H. Vivian
 eulogized the yeomanry, as the constitutional force of the country.Mr. Gooch
 approved of the yeomanry system, not as a political engine, but as a means of bringing the gentry and farmers together. But he objected to the practice of keeping them out on permanent duty.Lord Althorp
l.l. said, he thought the volunteer corps a very useless force, and that not a single shilling, in the present state of the country, ought to be expended on them more than last year. He belonged to a yeomanry corps which drew no pay; 6ut if they remained embodied, and were called out on permanent duty, it was necessary to pay them. He would therefore move "That 147,000l.l.Lord Althorp
1091l.s.s.l.l.1090l. said, that he did not feel himself placed in the situation of the hon. colonel behind him, with respect to the army estimates of this year; for last year he had voted against the estimates, and was in a minority of eight upon that occasion. Therefore his noble friend over the way could not retort upon him that he was pledged to the present estimates because of his vote of last year. The objections which he entertained against the noble lord's resolutions were of a nature to prevent him from entering into detail —he objected to them altogether as founded upon an erroneous view of the interests of the country; and he was the more confirmed in that opinion by the latter part of the speech of the noble lord, in which he had endeavoured to divert the attention of the House from looking back to the principles of policy by which, in former times, the country had been regulated. He saw clearly from that speech, that the military spirit of the government—or, more properly speaking, its disposition for keeping up a large military establishment—was far from being so subdued as, for the safety and happiness of the country, it ought to be. The latter part of the noble lord's Speech showed clearly that, in the opinion of the higher authorities of this country, our security depended upon the maintenance of a large military force. Now, he was quite unconvinced that there was the least necessity for any larger establishment than the country, in former years, had been in the habit of maintaining. If our colonies had increased in one part of the world, in another part they had been diminished; because, within the last fifty years, we had lost the whole of North America? His majesty's ministers, in bringing forward the estimates, were not aware of the situation in which they placed the country. The necessary effect of such a large expenditure must be, to reduce the pecuniary resources of the country. And, if they still persisted in maintaining a large military establishment let them recollect what they said in 1816. In that year, 100,0001091l.s.s.l.l.1090l.Lord Milton
 was of opinion, that the yeomanry had become a very different force from what they were originally intended to be, and were applied to very different purposes.Lord Milton
l.l.1107 asserted that the 13,000
l.l.1107Lord Palmerston
l.l.l.110511041103l.l.1102 said, that if the committee concurred in the amendment, the lion, gentleman would not be at all nearer the attainment of his object, because it went only to the adoption of the recommendation of the committee of Finance of 1817, to approximate as nearly to the estimates of 1792, as might be "consistent with our more extended possessions, and the augmented rates of the various fixed disbursements." The whole question therefore was, whether there had been such an approximation, and he was prepared to contend, that the resolutions he had to propose were framed with every due regard to economy, and adapted to the existing circumstances of the country. In considering this point the fair criterion to judge by was not the mere point which had been so much relied on by the hon. member; namely, that the country was now, as in 1792, in a state of profound peace. They must, in coming to a decision, look to the present circumstances of the country; and he had contended, that, considering those circumstances, the existing military establishment was not too great. If that argument were of any force—if his reasoning were
l.l.l.110511041103l.l.1102Lord Palmerston
10891088d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.1087d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.d.l.d.l.d.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.1086s.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1085l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.l.l.l.d.s.l. said, he felt convinced that all who had heard the motion of the hon. member for Worcester would have supposed, that the estimates of the army to be proposed to the House, contained some remarkable increase over those which had been voted in the preceding years. The fact, however, was, that the estimates which he was about to submit to the committee, were the same as those of the last year, with the addition only of three hundred men, constituting three companies, for the service of the colony of Newfoundland, and to be paid for by the inhabitants of that settlement. The total increase upon the estimates was only 126,58610891088d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.1087d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.d.l.d.l.d.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.1086s.d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1085l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.l.l.l.d.s.l.Lord Palmerston
 said, that if it were intended to continue the small notes of country bankers, something might be said to the petition; but as they were to be called in, he thought any measure upon the subject unnecessary.Mr. Baring
 said, that in this case it was not pretended by the petitioner that he had sustained any injury, but it was brought forward merely to try the question as to the bankers right to refuse gold in payment of his own notes, when demanded. He did not see the expediency of pressing an immediate return to a gold currency. To meddle at all with the currency was not an advisable measure at that moment; and the manner in which it would affect all classes of society, had not been sufficiently considered.Sir F. Burdett
 said, it was quite impossible for the most active legislation to meet every possible case. The petitioner appeared to him to have, in reality, nothing to complain of. On presenting his notes at the banker's he was offered Bank of England notes, which were convertible in a moment into gold, and on the following day he was sent the gold itself. Now, he did not think that any summary process required to be introduced by the hon. member for Montrose would have given Martin the power of procuring the money quicker than within twenty-four hours after his demand.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 the petition was from the boot and shoemakers. Now, of all those, who approached that House with a petition upon the subject, he considered them perhaps the least entitled to complain. It was notorious that a gentleman could not purchase a pair of boots and spurs under the price which he procured for a quarter of his best wheat. As long as the manufacturers continued to demand such prices, their profits must be as large or larger then the corn-grower's; and they could therefore afford to pay the price. They could not have corn cheap, and the other articles of life relatively dear. His hon. friend had talked of bread as being very high in price; there was no analogy between the price of bread and corn. Whether it, was the miller or the baker, he knew not; but the price of corn was very different from the price of bread. He would fee willing to apply the principles of free trade to corn, as well as to every other, article; but in the present sophisticated of the country, they could only approach to the principles of that trade.Mr. Calcraft
1116 said, that if the country gentlemen would oppose the enormous estimates which were presented to the House take place, which would render the bur-
1116Colonel Davies
111911181117 said, he thought that much error and much prejudice prevailed upon the subject on which a discussion had now arisen. Perhaps it would be better that such a discussion should take place when the question was brought fairly before the House, than to have it introduced in the present irregular way, on the presentation of a petition, as many hon. gentlemen representing the landed interest, whose opinions were upon this subject the most important, might feel it irksome, without some previous intimation, to deliver their sentiments. This was a natural feeling for those to entertain who were not in the habit of frequently expressing their opinions in that House. Much delusion, in his opinion, prevailed upon this subject, and he was, therefore, desirous that it should come fully and fairly before the House, with a view of dissipating that delusion. As to the particular distress of shoemakers, or of any other class of persons, it was a thing certainly to be regretted that distress existed amongst them; but that distress, whatever they might think, was quite disconnected with the present question. The distressed situation of the labouring classes was governed by principles totally distinct from those upon which the question of the Corn-laws de-pended. The working classes laboured
111911181117Sir F. Burdett
 said, that the example of the Americans had been referred to; but they had a military college, as well as this country.Colonel Wood
l.l.1121 remarked, that the expense of the American army was
l.l.1121Colonel Davies
 thought the hon. member misunderstood the grounds on which he had been called to order. It was not because the hon. member was bringing charges, but because he was using unguarded expressions. His whole argument, however, was foreign to the purpose, because not a halfpenny of the governor of the Cape's salary was paid out of the present vote.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.—A man under accusation!The Attorney-general
1126 was disposed to believe that the hon. member for Montrose had exceeded the instructions of his constituents of the colonies, and that he had pledged them more extensively than they
1126Mr. Wilmot Horton
 condemned the whole management of the colonies as the most infamous system of jobbing on the face of the globe. The expense of keeping every colony was greater now than it had been while they were in the hands of the power from which it had been taken. Under the Dutch the Cape of Good Hope paid all its expenses. His object in rising was, that his hon. friend should not be hunted down.Colonel Davies
1127, in allusion to the complaints against lord C. Somerset, took oc-
1127Mr. S. Rice
 defended the propriety of the vote. It was very true that the power of taxation, to meet the expense of the garrison—and every other expense with respect to the Cape of Good Hope—rested with the government. The question, then, was, whether the colony was able to support the necessary expense? There was nothing analogous between the situation of the Cape of Good Hope and that of Jamaica. The hon. member talked of introducing British laws, and even the British language, in the former place. But it was deceiving the House to say that such objects could be effected in so easy a manner. Every thing possible had been done for the amelioration of that colony.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, that the hon. member had not taken notice of the fact, that in 1822 the out-pensions of Kilmainham had been, incorporated with those of Chelsea. He admitted, however, that the position taken by the hon. gentleman was one in which he himself had been placed. He had looked for a diminution under this head; but instead of it, he was surprised by an increase. He had also found the utmost difficulty in accounting for it. He knew that it could be accounted for, in part, by the reduction of veteran battalions, and in part by the recalling of troops from the East and West Indies. But these two modes were not enough to account for a gradual and progressive increase. He thought it wrong decidedly, and had sent persons into various parts of England to detect fraud and imposition, if they existed. None had been detected. He had sent parties into Ireland upon the same errand. But as yet he had no satisfactory returns. He could not say where the fault lay. Certainly, the government was not blameable. They could not refuse the pensions. The increase was probably owing chiefly to the service-pension list existing under Mr. Windham's system, adopted when the House and country did not seem to have the least idea of the extent to which the expense might be carried. He had opposed that service-pension plan at the time it was proposed, and he was now clearly convinced that it ought never to have been carried into effect. But that regulation had been subsequently altered, and its provisions confined to those who had enlisted under that system. The rest were under a different regulation, and not entitled to a service-pension until they had served twety-years. Under the former system, it was competent, in many instances, for persons to retire on service-pensions, whose ages only amounted to about thirty. The hon. member must therefore complain of Mr. Windham's law. But he hoped we had now reached the acme of the effects of that system.Sir C. Long
1135 said, that having just got through the Army Estimates the Ordnance Estimates were now to be considered. In both of these branches-of expenditure he
1135Mr. Bernal
1136 said, that the particular circumstances which had taken place in the course of the session had hitherto precluded him, without any fault, and certainly without any desire of his own, from presenting to the consideration of the House those statements to which they might look for the means of giving effect to the measures already agreed upon, as well as to that at present under discussion. He would, however, now undertake to promise, that on that night sunlight, he would certainly submit to the House the view of his majesty's government upon the actual state of the finances of the country; and he entertained no doubt
1136The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1138 regretted to find that it was intended to retain a battalion of the guards in the Mews at Charing-cross. It would be much more becoming, constitutional, and seemly to the eyes of Englishmen, if the present opportunity of local improvement on the spot, carrying on under the eyes of sir Charles Long, the Vitruvius of the present day, were taken, to get rid of this infringement of a long-established constitutional principle. It was highly improper to keep a large body of troops close to the houses of parliament, close to the king's palace, close to the courts of law. It might be said, this four or five hundred men could not overawe Westminster. But it was fitting that the military should be removed out of sight; and especially as there was an abundance of barracks in which they might be stationed. Such was the feeling of some of his constituents; and, in compliance with that feeling, he had waited on the duke of York, who received him as his royal highness received every body, but who had told him that it was determined on that the troops should be kept there. God forbid that he should object to men in a red coat. He had as much respect for soldiers as any man, in their proper places; but it was not a fit thing
1138Mr. Hobhouse
1139 said, that the hon. member's objection divided itself into two heads—the architectural and the constitutional objection. On the first point, he could not conceive what offence it was against good taste, that human beings should be put in a place where horses had hitherto been kept. Neither could he tell on what the constitutional objection was founded. He should be prepared to contend, when the hon. member brought the subject forward, that it was the more constitutional course to lodge the men in barracks than to quarter them on the citizens. At least in the time of Charles 1st the cry was, that "the soldiers should not sojourn with the free citizens of the country against their will." As to the usage, the hon. member should recollect, that from 1754 to 1776, it was the practice to keep a battalion of guards at the Savoy, and when the Savoy was burned in 1776, the buildings in Somerset-house were appropriated for the same number of troops, from that period to 1789. As a general proposition too, he should be prepared to show, that it was more conducive to the efficiency of the troops, to lodge them in barracks, than to quarter them on the publicans, where they necessarily mingled with characters of the worst description. What the effect of quartering on the publicans was, he would show by a single instance; at that moment there were soldiers quartered at
1139Mr. Secretary Peel
 thought there could be no question as to the preferableness of keeping the soldiers in barracks, instead of suffering them to live in public-houses, associating with the most dissolute of the populace.Colonel Davies
 said, that there was no branch of our force which it was so necessary to keep up as the Artillery. It was very expensive to raise such a corps, and, therefore, it ought to be kept efficient. The British Artillery was one of the best arms of the country.Sir Ronald Fergusson
 said, that if he was in error as to his constitutional law, he erred with very respectable authority. Blackstone had written in strong terms against the practice of separating the soldiers from the people. It was said that they were thereby better subjected to military discipline. But he would rather that they should be a little worse soldiers, than be cut off from all community of feeling with the people.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that if the House wished to have the soldiers in good order, they must be kept in barracks. In his own regiment it frequently happened, that men were quartered out for want of room; but they generally complained of being billeted among the blackguards with whom they were obliged to mix in the public-houses. The army would soon run to confusion and disorder if the barrack system were abolished.General Townsend
 agreed, that troops were much easier kept in subordination in barracks, than if quartered in public-houses; but the situation of the new barracks was what his hon. friend was opposed to. They would stand in the heart of Westminster, than which he could conceive nothing more objectionable.Colonel Johnson
 said, that he had changed his opinion since last year upon this point. He thought that the Crown ought to have the power, of providing for officers; and that a place was better than a pension, because there was something of honour attached to it. Still he could not understand why Fort Agustus and Fort William had not been demolished.Lord John Russell
 said, that since the Caledonian canal had been constructed, one, of these forts stood at the very entrance of it; and if it were not for it, any privateer with a couple of, guns might come up to the lock gates and blow them off. As for the other fort, it was, used as a barrack, and was wanted in that part of the country. Besides, he believed, that the maintenance of these forts was part of the act of Union with Scotland.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that in the American college there were 268 cadets, who cost more than he was aware of.Sir H. Hardinge
ll. defended the present scale upon which the Ordnance estimate was framed; and said, that so far from its showing an increasing expense in the particular department alluded to, there was a reduction of 67,000ll.Sir H. Hardinge
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1134l.l.l.1133l.l.l.l.l.l.1132l., before be proceeded to propose any vote, begged to make a few observations relative to the Ordnance Estimates for this year. It would be seen at once that an increase bad taken place in the amount of the whole sum to be voted. That increase was, however, no actual increase of the expense of the Ordnance department, but arose from the transfer of certain items from the army extra ordinaries and navy estimates. From the army extra ordinaries the sum of 210,260l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1134l.l.l.1133l.l.l.l.l.l.1132l.Sir H. Hardinge
1131 complained of the hardships suffered under the commission
1131Mr. H. Gurney
 observed, that the hon. member for Aberdeen had recommended that persons educated at the college should pay the expense out of their own pocket, except officers' sons, who should be educated at the public expense. Now, the case was exactly so. Where the individuals were not officers' sons, they paid for their education.General Gascoyne
 said, that if it was not for the Corn-laws, he would be glad to know how the nation could pay the interest of the debt, the poor-laws, the taxes, or any other of the great public burthens. If no laws protected the grower of corn, he apprehended they would find some difficulty in finding a market for their manufactures. The agricultural interest formed the bank upon which they drew for every burthen imposed upon the people. If they got rid of those laws which supported that class, they might get, rid, at the same time, of the national debt, and every other tax which pressed upon the country.Mr. Benett
 thought that much of the charge might be dispensed with. There was no reason why these gentlemen should be educated at the public expense. If we were to have a metallic currency and low prices, we must have low taxes.Mr. Monck
l.l.l. said, he would ask, whether 24,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l. replied, that his object was, not to allow the sons of officers to be educated at the public expense. He was satisfied the gallant admiral would not grudge to pay 125l.Mr. Hume
 objected that, in a variety of cases, governors and lieutenant-governors were kept up whose appointments were merely nominal. Some never resided at all; and in many places the garrisons were only kept up for the purpose of placing a certain number of sinecures at the disposal of government.Mr. Hume
 wished to know why Fort Augustus and Fort William, two places which the military commission had recommended for reduction, were not given up? and why there was an increase in the estimate? He understood that, they were still maintained at the desire of the duke of Wellington.Mr. Hume
l. was afraid that the favoured officers, and those of influence, got more of this reward than the meritorious ones. Who, for instance, was the governor of Hull, with a sinecure of more than 800l.Mr. Hume
1125l. said, the forts were not built till after the Union. The canal alluded to was itself useless, and it was too much to pay 1,0001125l.Mr. Hume
.—Under accusation! Why that was just What he said—under serious accusations—for which he ought to be brought to justice.Mr. Hume
 said, that his argument was quite to the purpose. He said, that if the Cape had another governor, it might be made to pay all its own expenses. In saying that lord Charles Somerset was detested by every body, he meant every body, at the Cape; and as far as his knowledge went it was so. [Cries of "Order."]Mr. Hume
 inquired, whether those foreign officers were allowed to sell their half-pay?Mr. Hume
l.l. said, that the hon. member might as well have eulogized the character of sir Peregrine Pickle. What had that officer's character to do with the present question? In a time like this, every shilling that could be saved ought to be saved. Why should individuals in this country be called on to pay for the garrisons of Canada or the Cape of Good Hope, any more than for the troops employed in Jamaica? If the colonies were worth being defended, surely they ought to pay for that defence. In his opinion, the 5,900l.l.Mr. Hume
1114s. presented a Petition from the weavers of Pollock-shaws, praying for an alteration of the Corn-laws. The hon. member observed, that while the wages of weavers were 51114s.Mr. Hume
1113 presented a Petition from William Martin, grocer, of Seven Oaks in Kent, complaining of the conduct of a Country Banker. The petitioner stated, that, a short time ago, he carried eighteen one pound, and two five pound notes, of the issue of the Bank in Seven Oaks, to the banking house of Beeching and Sons, and demanded payment. Instead, however, of receiving that payment in gold the banker handed him Bank of England notes; and, upon his complaining that he ought to be paid in gold, absolutely refused to do so. The petitioner then went to a justice of the peace, and requested him to summon the banker, and require him to make the payment in gold, or state the reasons for his refusal; but the magistrate declared he had no power to interfere. On the next day, the banker sent twenty-eight sovereigns to the petitioner's house, in payment of the said notes. Mr. Hume said, he had ascertained the truth of this statement, which the banker did not deny, but said it was an ill-natured proceeding on the part of the petitioner. This, however, had nothing to do with the question. The House ought to say whether his majesty's subjects were to be placed in a situation by the country bankers, in which they could not have the local notes convertible into gold when they pleased.
1113Mr. Hume
1120 asked whether all the young
1120Mr. Hume
 objected to the appointment of new officers in the present distressed state of the country, whilst there were many meritorious officers on half-pay who would be glad to obtain employment. He also objected to the high salaries which the staff officers of the college received.Mr. Hume
l. objected to the sons of gentlemen being educated at the public expense. He wished to know how many days, during the last year, the governor of the college, whose salary was 1,500l.Mr. Hume
 contended for his right to allude to the conduct of public officers. How else were they to be brought to justice? And how was it in this very case? Lord Charles Somerset could not be got over to this country, although they had been led to expect that he would be here to take his trial long ago.Mr. Hume
l.l.1130l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. recollected the noble lord folding forth in 1817 and 1818, that most of those on the pension list were men who must have suffered from the war, and that a great reduction might naturally be expected to take place; but if instead of 800,000l.l.1130l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that if old men whose incumbrance on the public would be determined by a few years, were allowed to substitute younger men in their places, he could not see where the system would stop.Mr. Hume
1129l.l.l.l.l.l. said, there was no man more anxious than he was to provide for those individuals who had served their country in the field; but he could not conceive why this expense should go on increasing. In 1821, the sum charged was 940,0001129l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l. said, he had expected, after all the promises held out of the consolidation of offices, that the country would have had the benefit of reduction; instead of which, he was sorry to observe an increase of expenditure in every item. He had already shown that the department of the army was going on in a progressive ratio of expense. The same, it now appeared, was to be the case with the Ordnance, until at length the country would be destroyed by a load of taxation to support all those enormous establishments. The Artillery were now to be augmented to seventy men each company, and next year they were to be increased to eighty. The hon. member said, that thirty-five companies of Artillery could not be dispensed with, but he really believed that ten companies were quite sufficient. We were not in a state of war: the colonies needed no defence; the twenty companies required for their relief were altogether superfluous. He regretted very much to observe the disposition in his majesty's ministers to extravagance. In 1792 the whole amount of the expense for the Artillery was only 445,000l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that his object was, to show that the Artillery had been augmented merely because the infantry had been augmented; and for this augmentation no good reason whatever had been given. If ministers would go on at this extravagant rate, and the House would allow them, he could only say, let them do it in God's name, for he could not prevent them.Mr. Hume
 was desirous that the Corn-laws should be revised, but objected to any alteration which would deprive the landed proprietor of a fair remuneration.Mr. N. Calvert
 was disposed to extend every fair protection to the agricultural interest; but he must say, that the manufacturing and mercantile interests, from the changes which had been introduced into our commercial policy, had some claims upon the agricultural interests.Mr. T. Wilson
 said, that as the man gained all he required, it was evident his only object was to make a case for presenting a petition.Mr. W. Smith
s.s. most positively denied the assertion, that rents had not been reduced. He also wished to state that the price of corn, instead of being 60s.s.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, that if the charge of defraying the expenses of this college were taken from the public, it became a private seminary; and at private seminaries pupils learnt nothing. Noblemen's and gentlemen's sons came away from those schools without learning any thing but extravagance and swindling.Sir J. Yorke
1137 said, that with reference to the reduction in this branch of the public expenditure under Mr. Pitt's government in 1792, he must say that the
1137Sir Joseph Yorke
 wished to know who were those lucky landlords from whose rent-rolls their rents had not been reduced. He could assure the petitioners, that if the Promissory-Note bill passed, it would not be long before the price of corn was as low as they could wish; and then they would find wages decrease also. He was sorry to see that gentlemen could not present petitions without, by a sort of side-wind, throwing out unjust and illiberal imputations upon the landlords.Sir M. W. Ridley
1122 considered the estimate not beyond the amount required. Whilst he was upon his legs, he wished to say a few words upon a matter introduced to the notice of the House by an hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett) whom he was sorry he did not see in his place. He referred to a paragraph which had appeared in the newspapers respecting a transaction in the 10th Hussars. When it was first mentioned, he had stated, that he had no doubt the affair would turn out to have arisen from a desire to abstain from the infliction of corporal punishment. He thought that such subjects as these should not be brought before the House, because they tended to create prejudices towards a certain quarter, though he was quite sure the hon. baronet had no improper object in bringing this matter forward. He had stated, that the transaction had been exaggerated, and he held in his hand a report from the commanding officer of the 10th, which fully confirmed his statement. The man had behaved extremely ill, and recourse was had to the usual punishment of drill; he lay down, refused to move, and two Serjeants were directed to force him along. He afterwards was confined; and subsequently expressed contrition for his offence. The officer consented to overlook it, but insisted upon his performing two days' drill. The only point of the officer's conduct upon which the commander-in-chief had felt any dissatisfaction was, his not bring-
1122Sir Hussey Vivian
 said, that when he was at the Cape, a Dutch officer, who had been governor there, informed him, that he had been always able to levy sufficient in the colony, for the maintenance of the garrison, &c, without calling for a shilling from the mother country. He did not understand why that should no longer be the case.Sir R. Wilson
1115s.s.s.s., in presenting a petition from the ladies shoemakers of Westminster, against the Corn laws, observed, that he liked to hear the subject discussed in that House, because these discussions were a means both of disseminating information and removing prejudice. At the same time, he considered all language of asperity or reproach towards the landlords, as highly reprehensible; for he believed the landlords of England to be as generous and benevolent a class of men as any other in the kingdom. There were some of them who considered, however, any attempt to approach the Corn-laws, as almost equal to the opening of Pandora's box, from the ills which were to be spread by that event over the country. The hon. member for Wiltshire considered any interference with the Corn-laws as likely to put an end to all payments of the national debt, or the other obligations of the country. He had no such apprehensions; but when he saw corn as high as it was during the war, and the wages of manufacturers, which were then 201115s.s.s.s.Sir R. Wilson
l. said, that he was the governor of the college. He obtained leave of absence for two months, during the last year, upon urgent private business; but his attention was not withdrawn from the establishment. The situation was an arduous one; and, so far from being an object of desire, he had resigned it for the situation which he formerly held, the salary of which was only 400l.Sir A. Hope
 felt himself called upon to interfere, when he heard a gallant officer spoken of in so disrespectful a manner in his absence. He really thought it altogether unfair to take this course.Sir A. Hope
 objected to the term sinecure, as applied to the appointments in question, which were invariably the hard-earned rewards of long service. In the course of a war, during which 500 meritorious individuals had risen to the rank of general officer, there were but forty-four of these little governments to distribute amongst them; and these were the same as had existed in the British army for upwards of a hundred years. They were, in fact, the only reward in the power of the Crown to bestow upon officers who had become distinguished, wounded, or worn out in the service of their country. The hon. member could not point out one individual who had obtained his appointment from mere favour. The individual alluded to was general Hill one of the duke of Wellington's aide-de-camps.Sir A. Hope
1124 said, that if they had been demolished, the officers attached to them would have retained their pay during life; so that nothing would have been gained. The trifling increase in the estimate, arose from some addition, of
1124Lord Palmerston
 said, that many of the posts were not sinecures, and that such as were, were rewards given to meritorious officers for services performed.Lord Palmerston
 thought, that great misunderstanding prevailed upon the subject of this vote. Take all the seminaries of the country together, and it would he found that such an education as was given at the military college could not be obtained elsewhere at as cheap a rate. It had been objected that the cadets should pay the expense of their own education; and so they did in part. But there were the sons of distinguished officers, who could not pay the whole expense of their education; and, would the hon. member exclude them from rising to the height pf their profession? So long as we had, an army, the officers of it should be well educated.Lord Palmerston
 said, that they were permitted to sell their half-pay, in precisely the same way as British officers, but that commissions did not bear the same price according to the rank. The instances, however, were few in which this permission had been taken advantage of.Lord Palmerston
 said, that officers, to be of service to their country, should be well educated. If they were to be instructed in that kind of knowledge which would be useful to them in their profession, it was right that the instructors should be paid for their trouble. All the officers educated at the college had distinguished themselves; a proof that the expense of the establishment had not been thrown away.Lord Palmerston
 said, that the number of students furnished with cadetships during the last two years was 113. Of these 46 were by purchase, and 67 by gift.Lord Palmerston
 said, the vote was required to requite those soldiers who had served for a given period, or who had within that period been disabled in the service of the country, and had thus become entitled to pensions. It was not for those who administered the regulation to dictate what number of men should present themselves for admission; it was only when those claims were made, that the duty of the officers of that establishment commenced, by investigating the nature of those claims. Considering the large amount of the army during the war, there must have arisen a greater number of claims from those who had been partially disabled, than could have been supposed to have been reduced in consequence of deaths. He felt confident that the House would not apply an ill-judged economy to the pittance of the soldier who had been disabled in the service of his country.Lord Palmerston
 said, the hon. member had adopted a mistaken view of this matter. The half-pay was by no means a perpetual arrangement, as he seemed to suppose; nor were the individuals who remained on the list a whit more immortal than those who sold out. The advantage of the system was this, that those foreign half-pay officers formed a class of men who could not be employed, without a special act of parliament; but, by allowing them to sell out, instead of supporting a body of officers from whom we could derive no service, we procured the assistance of British officers whose services were at once available. This arrangement did not substitute young lives for old ones. It was most advantageous to the country, and to the persons immediately concerned, by giving a scope to the preferment of meritorious officers. This was a most desirable object. Since the peace, officers were growing gray in the service, who, in consequence of this arrangement, were enabled to get forward.Lord Palmerston
 believed the hon. member could not name any ease in which the person called on was not liable to pay. Still it did not follow, because an individual was called on to pay money in this manner, that any doubt was cast on his honesty; for it might happen that too great a sum was originally issued by government to the individual) and then it night, properly and fairly, remain in his hands till he was called on Co repay the balance Of that which he had received On the other hand, the delay of the government in thus calling on an individual was no imputation on them; for they might not be able to make up their accounts immediately. In all these cases, in which the parties had resisted the claim of government, their resistance had been found illegal.Lord Palmerston
1185 said, that be would give his support to the measure, not because he thought it the best that might have been proposed for the adoption of
1185Lord A. Hamilton
 said, he had intended to move an amendment at the present stage of this bill, but upon reflection he had abandoned that intention, and would content himself with declaring his opposition to the measure, with respect to which he would take the sense of the House, if he saw any members inclined to support him. He could look upon the measure in no other light than as a bill of pains and penalties against country bankers—a class of persons who had been most hardly dealt with. He thought that government, by the extensive issues of their own accommodation paper, had been greater encouragers of speculation than the country bankers; and was of opinion, that it would be impossible to obtain a sufficient quantity of metallic currency to supply the wants of the manufacturing districts. During the course of his parliamentary experience, he had never known a measure more calculated to produce mischief than the one under consideration.Mr. Calcraft
 thought, that the country hankers had been shamefully treated by ministers and the parliament. The only measure which would give relief to the country was an immediate and extensive curtailment of the public expenditure.Sir R. Heron
 said, that much unmerited odium had been thrown upon the country bankers. In a paper which purprorted to be a return of the number of bankrupt bankers, the names of several individuals were inserted who had never committed an act of bankruptcy, and of others who had superseded their commissions. In common fairness the hon. member for Aberdeen was bound to move for a return of the names of the country bankers who had superseded their commissions of bankruptcy.Mr. J. Martin
s.s.1186 feared the House had overlooked the great difficulties which
s.s.1186Mr. Robertson
 spoke of the necessity of country bankers making their notes payable in the place where they were issued. In consequence of this salutary practice, the bankers of Westmoreland and Cumberland had been able to stand against the storm. In Lancaster, a degree of swindling was going on, in the absence of bank-notes, by the circulation of improvident bills of exchange. For the small notes of the Bank of England he entertained a great dislike, from the facility they afforded to forgery. He hoped, if they were to be circulated throughout the country, that means would be resorted to to make them less liable to imitation.Mr. Carus Wilson
1187 said, that if he were asked whether he would prefer a metallic or paper currency, he should certainly vote for the former. But, having once begun with the paper, we could not stop short. The principal object of this bill was, to circumscribe the issues in paper, and thereby accelerate the return to cash payments. It was on that principle that he had supported it. But he did not understand why all the advantages of the bill should be topsy-turvy in favour of the Bank of England; nor why that Bank should be shown greater favour than the country banks, as to the privilege of issuing notes
1187Sir F. Blake
 objected strongly to the power given to the Bank of England of issuing notes to the 10th of October next. He thought it was to be regretted that those words had found their way into the bill; for it gave to the Bank the power of manufacturing as many notes as they pleased. It plainly appeared that ministers had been misinformed as to the danger of contracting the circulation of the country bankers. The effect of the amendment was, to destroy all the small country notes. What was the value of the responsibility of the Bank? As to the responsibility of government, he was at a loss to know what it amounted to. The doctrine maintained in that House (and in which he concurred) was, that the Bank should consult their own interest, and not be subject to the control of government. He supported the bill; but he did it with regret since the introduction of this amendment. In order to put his opinion upon record, he meant to move that instead of the 10th of October, the 5th of February be inserted.Mr. Abercromby
1188 observed, that great stress had been laid on the quantity of paper in circulation. Now, he thought, that although no correct deductions could be made from the amount of paper currency on particular days, yet it was desirable that returns should be made by the coun-
1188Mr. Hume
 seconded the motion. In the progress of this measure through the House, two propositions had, he said, been offered, neither of which had been agreed to; one was for securing the issues of country bankers by deposits; the other was for authorizing a summary process of compelling country bankers to pay in coin. His hon. friend had now offered a third, the object of which was, that the country bankers should condescend to give the country some account of the amount of their issues. It had been said, that the House had been legislating against the country bankers; whereas the House had been legislating for the country, and not for any particular interest. We had now no certain knowledge of the issues of the country bankers, and the House could not legislate properly without that knowledge. He thought his hon. friend might have gone further in his motion than he had done; for it was but just that those who dealt in the coin and circulation of the country should be similarly circumstanced with other traders. If the banking system was not put on a solid foundation, the country would soon be in a worse situation than at present. Fair as his hon. friend's proposition was, he supposed that, like the others, it would be rejected. He wished the chancellor of the Exchequer would imitate the conduct of his right hon. colleague. There was not an impartial man in the country who would not say that the president of the Board of Trade had acted on sound and just principles with regard to the silk trade. If the chancellor of the Exchequer had come down to the House and explained himself with the same frankness and firmness as the right hon. gentleman had done, in that admirable speech which he had listened to with the greatest pleasure, he would have done himself much credit. He should not have minded the obstacles cast in his way. He should not have minded the loss of votes in parliament, nor the clamour out of doors; but he should have pursued the straight-forward course, and the country would have supported him.Mr. Hobhouse
1189 said, that the appoint-
1189Mr. John Smith
 said, that he resisted the present motion, not at all in consequence of any representation from the country bankers, but because he thought it was, upon its own merits, open to objection. If any banking companies were established under the bill which was to be read that night a second time, or any chartered companies—any companies to whom peculiar privilege was to be given—he should have no objection to demand some sort of account; but, particularly at the present moment, he was adverse to putting the Treasury in possession of the private concerns of individual bankers; and there were reasons why government would be better kept without such information. The hon. member said that he did not wish to make the publication in the Gazette imperative, but would leave it to the discretion of ministers. Now, he thought that ministers would be better without such discretion. It was also to be in the judgment of ministers, whether to lay the accounts received before the House; but it was possible that the House might call for the accounts against the judgment of ministers. At all events, the clause, as it was proposed, was inoperative; because it provided no penalty in case of neglect to return a true account; and this was the mere material, as cases might be imagined in which the temptation to give an inaccurate statement would be almost irresistible.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed the introduction of the clause into this bill, with the objects of which it had no connection; whether advisable, as a matter of future regulation or otherwise.Mr. Hudson Gurney
1190 said, it was a mistaken
1190Mr. Pearse
 thought that the amount of notes in circulation should be laid before the public, and gave it as his opinion, that one-pound notes issued on government security, would be preferable to those of the Bank of England, or of any other bank.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 wished to know from the secretary for the Home Department, whether government were at all responsible for any over-issue of notes. He certainly understood the right hon. gentleman to say, on a former occasion, that not only the Bank, but the government were responsible for any exercise of that power beyond due discretion. The fact just mentioned by the hon. director proved, that there would be no danger in agreeing to the clause.Mr. Ellice
 said, that when the small notes were issued in December, it was considered a peculiar measure, and had the sanction of government; consequently, so far as regarded the issue of those notes since that period to this, government should bear the responsibility. But, as a general measure, they were not at all implicated.Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, that although there was no penalty attached to the violation of the clause, yet such violation might be punished as a misdemeanor.Mr. Monck
l.l. then proposed a clause to give remedy, by summary process, against country bankers refusing to pay their small notes in gold coin. He wished for security to the holders of the one-pound notes; but if the House did not agree to make cash payments compulsory, there would be no such security. The chancellor of the Exchequer, on bringing in this Bill, had said, that security to the holders of small notes was his object. Could he therefore consent to pass this bill without that security? As the bill now stood, there must be an action, so that it might be one or six months before the value of the note could be recovered; and the action might cost 10l.l.Mr. Hume
s. said, that if the hon. member's clause passed, not a respectable country banker would ever issue another one-pound note; and those which were out already they would get in as fast as possible. The fact was, that a remedy for refusal to pay in gold already existed. A one-pound note might be protested for non-payment just as regularly as a bill of exchange; and the cost of that first step—which the banker would be liable to pay—would be 22s.Mr. J. Smith
 remarked, that the chief instances of grievance brought forward by the hon. member for Montrose, had-been from Scotland, where, it appeared, this summary process existed, and whence, it should seem, by the hon. member's own showing, it was utterly useless.Mr. Hudson Gurney
s. observed, that the remedy was inefficient. The banker might be liable to pay the 22s.Colonel Johnson
11951194l.l.1193 rose and said, that it was his intention, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to propose a specific reduction of the number of troops which his majesty's ministers had thought fit to call on the House to vote as necessary for the military service of the country. The present, he knew, was rather an inauspicious moment for bringing forward a subject of so much importance; but he hoped that gentlemen would listen to him for a few moments, while he stated his reasons for considering the present as the most improper period that could be selected for proposing so large a military establishment as ministers now demanded from the House. The noble Secretary at War had told them that it was easy for gentlemen on the opposition side of the House, to declaim on such topics as the danger of keeping up a standing army, and the necessity which existed for the reduction of taxation. It might be easy or not; but that circumstance depended on the taste and temper of the audience to whom the declamation was addressed. Now, if (as he believed it would be admitted was the case) the noble lord had the audience in his favour, it was much easier for him to indulge in observation on the opposite topics—to argue that such and such reduction were not possible—than for those to whom the noble lord had alluded, to work up, with any profit or effect, those trite and worn-out subjects, which had been so often expatiated on within the walls of parliament, and passed by with total disregard. Now, the noble lord, in the speech which he delivered when he proposed the army estimates, had given the House no reason whatever for continuing the present large military establishment in time of peace; and still less had he assigned any ground for the increase which he had proposed; for, though it was comparatively small, still it was an increase; and in this period of public pressure, it was the bounden duty of ministers, if they asked for a large standing army, in this the eleventh year of peace, to come down with something like cogent arguments in support of such a proposition. An observation had been
11951194l.l.1193Mr. Hobhouse
 assured the House that the reports of the commissioners of education would all be presented by the time appointed, with the exception of the report on the college of Maynooth, which would be postponed for a year. Great, but, he trusted, not insuperable, difficulties opposed themselves to the plans which the commissioners had hitherto recommended. They had not yet abandoned those plans, and he, for one, still entertained hopes that they would be ultimately successful.Mr. F. Lewis
1178 said, that the school at Middleton was one on a private foundation merely, and did not come within the jurisdiction of the commission. At one time the school alluded to had been under the immediate inspection of a gen-
1178Mr. Plunkett
l.l.,l. said, that if these schools on a private foundation, from the terms of their charter, or from any other cause, did not fall within the operation of the act of 1813, he was prepared to say that means should be immediately devised for subjecting them to an inquiry as rigid as that which might be extended to any school of public foundation, or under the immediate superintendence of the government. It never could have been intended by the legislature, at the time it authorized a commission to inquire into the state of schools of public foundation, that they should totally pass by schools erected by the grants of individuals, when those grants were manifestly intended for the public benefit. Still less could they have intended to pass by private foundations, where the income was stated at 200l.l.,l.Mr. Secretary Peel
11841183 said, that as he understood the return now moved for was a continuation of that formerly made, he could, of course, have no objection to it. Every body was aware of the importance of this subject; but put, as it was, in this general way, he should not feel himself justified if he took up the time of the House by any statement at present. His right hon. friend would soon present to the House the report of the commission appointed to inquire into the practice of the court of Chancery, and it would probably then become his duty to propose certain bills to carry into effect the alterations in the present practice which, that report might suggest. He could assure the House that every attention would be paid to the subject. With respect to the contempt incurred for non-payment of costs, if it were as stated by the hon. gentleman, he was ready to admit that the provision of the Insolvent Debtors' act, which already went to release persons confined for non-payment of money ordered by the court, ought to be extended, so as to relieve them from imprisonment for costs. The other cases were of a very different nature. Some remedy ought to be applied, if any thing like oppression or unfairness could be shown to exist under the present system; but it was impossible to meet all the views of the hon. gentleman on this subject, without going the length of abolishing the court of Chancery altogether. In a bill, for example, filed for the purpose of obtaining discoveries of the utmost importance to the justice of a case; if the defendant obstinately refused to make the discovery sought of him, what was to be done? There was no mode consistent with the law of England by which he could be compelled to do what justice required, except by imprisonment. But, the moment he put in his answer, he was released from confinement. Where was the hardship in this? If there were a hardship, and if it was thought that such a power ought no
11841183The Attorney-General
 seconded the motion.Colonel Johnson
l.l.l.1177 said, he was not able to state at that moment the ultimate determination of government on the subject of education in Ireland. It must necessarily be influenced by the reports which the commissioners might make, and the plans they might recommend. As far as
l.l.l.1177Mr. Goulburn
 thought, that if the process of contempt should be done away, or even weakened, all the usefulness of the court of Chancery would be destroyed. It was the only means the court had of protecting the interests of the suitors, and nobody could complain of it but those whose evil deeds exposed them to the punishment which the laws had a right to inflict upon them. He did not agree at all in the propriety of the act, which enabled persons when they had spent the money of the orphan, or the minor, to clear themselves from the effects of their obstinacy or iniquity. He thought that such a clause took a very great liberty with the property of the suitors of that court, and tended rather to promote injustice than justice in its proceedings. He trusted that a process, which was absolutely necessary to enable the court to perform its functions, would still be maintained.Mr. Lockhart
11821181l.l.1180d.1179 rose to move for a
11821181l.l.1180d.1179Mr. Hume
 supported the motion.Mr. Spring Rice
l.,l. observed, that the person through whose influence these leases had been granted, which cut down properties of 2,000l.,l.Sir John Newport
l.l.1176 rose, to move for the production of an account of the application of all sums granted in the last session for the furtherance of education in Ireland. He called the attention of the House to the
l.l.1176Sir John Newport
11971196 said, that although he could not agree in the proposition of the hon. gentleman, yet he was not disposed to object to the general principle which he had laid down; namely, that it was incumbent on the House to apportion, as scrupulously as possible, the amount of the military force to the actual wants of the country. Gentlemen, of course, had a right to make use of these anniversary occasions, for the purpose of making their observations, and of recording the opinions which they entertained on these particular subjects; but though the general principle
11971196Lord Palmerston
 said, though he regarded this bill as an important improvement in the commercial law of the country, he had objected to it when it was introduced last session, because he saw no reason why it should hot have taken effect immediately oh its enactment. He knew of no foreigner having objected to it; nor, indeed, did he see upon what ground any foreigner could object to it, since it only assimilated the law of this country in that respect to the law of every civilized country in Europe. He admitted that an unnecessary delay to the operation of this act bad been agreed upon; but as the legislature had decreed, that a certain time should elapse before its operation, he did hot think it a sound practice to sacrifice a principle to this particular case. The commissioners of 1811 preferred advancing money on personal security, instead of on deposits of goods; and he hoped the Bank would follow that example. He believed the measure adopted by the Bank, under the suggestion of his right hon. friend, had been productive of the greatest good already; and that the manner in which the Bank was acting was deserving of general commendation. That body was taking the best steps, in the must delicate manner, and with as much rapidity as the nature of the case would admit; and he was happy to say, that there was already in London a renewed confidence, and a freedom of commercial intercourse within a few days, which he believed to be Wholly attributable to this measure.Mr. Baring
 objected to the measure, and considered it a very dangerous precedent.Mr. Bernal
 considered the precedent a good one, and he thought the mode adopted much better than an issue of Exchequer-bills.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that nothing that had been done by ministers had so much met with his approbation, as their determination to refuse an issue of Exchequer bills.Mr. Abercromby
 said, that he approved of the original alteration of the law, and only regretted that it was not carried into effect instantly. It was a mistake to suppose that foreigners entertained any jealousy of the bill.Mr. J. Smith
1199 said, the House would recollect, that when his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, communicated to them that the Bank had agreed to advance money on goods and merchandise pledged to them as security, he at the same time stated that the Bank had signified an expectation, that the law of Merchant and Factor or rather the alteration of that law, which took place last session, and would not take effect until the 1st of October, would be extended to them. He would therefore move for leave to bring in a bill to effect that object, which was simply to provide that any goods or pledges upon which the Bank advanced money, should be considered as a security to the Bank, notwithstanding any supposed power or control which others might attempt to exercise over them. This was conformable to the alteration in the late law, which declared, that notwithstanding the symbols of property exercised by the owner, goods should be held to be the property of the person in whose possession they were, and that his acts over them should be held binding, in preference to the claims of any other person. When Exchequer-bills were advanced, in 1811, for the relief of the distress then existing, on the same sort of security, a provision to the same effect was introduced, which was, in fact,
1199Mr. Huskisson
 said, that when he brought in the bill of which he had given notice, he should expect to meet with strenuous opposition from the hon. baronet. That hon. baronet was intimately connected with those who supported the system of which he complained. He now gave notice that he would, on the 13th of April, ask for leave to bring in a bill to amend and alter the representation of Edinburgh.Mr. Abercromby
 said, he would support the bill whenever it came before the House. The system of Scotch representation, both in boroughs and counties, was highly disgraceful, and required immediate reform.Sir R. Fergusson
1211 thought that no such construction could be put upon the petition in common fairness. It might be that the language of the petitioners was strong; but it ought to be recollected, that they were not gifted with that temper, patience,
1211Mr. Bernal
 was surprised that petitions like the present had not been received from every manufacturing district in the country. He was, however, not surprised at the language of the petitioners. All he was astonished at was, pat similar petitions were not poured in from every manufacturing district in the Country.Mr. Maberly
1212 said, he could not think that any advantage could be gained by discussions like the present, which agitated a subject confessed to be one of the utmost importance, difficulty, and delicacy. He was sure that no person in, that House, wished to repress the voice of the people on any subject. The hon. gentleman thought the petition, which he had presented was a specimen of fine writing; but even he thought that they had painted their being supposed that be wished to prevent any representation of the distresses
1212Mr. Secretary Peel
1213 said, that however desirable it might be thought by the hon. gentleman to avoid discussions on these subjects, it was obviously impossible to do so; and, indeed, when it was considered that upon these occasions alone the House had an opportunity of hearing the sentiments of gentlemen who did not take any other part in the debates, it might be doubted whether it was advisable to discourage such discussions. At least they gave the country an opportunity of knowing the sentiments of members on this subject, and of ascertaining who did and who did not approve of any alteration in the law as it stood. If any evil consequences had been felt, they must be attributed solely to his majesty's ministers', and to the delay which they had occasioned in the settlement of this important question. He had understood that it was to be brought on in the course of the present session, and that the right hon. the president of the Board of Trade was to have submitted to the House his views on the subject. Ministers might have grounds for the alteration which they contemplated. He believed they were mistaken; but as the question must be decided, he thought the postponement of the discussion was extremely objectionable. At the ensuing general election, gentlemen would be called on, in almost every place, to state their opinions on this subject; and unless they knew what were the intentions of ministers, it would be impossible for them satisfactorily to answer. If the country could but once know what the government proposed to do, there would be an end of all discussion; but while they abstained from stating that, the uncertainty produced the greatest in convenience. It was not, to be sure difficult to guess from their measures what they intended to do. He had no doubt that the right hon. gentleman meant to approximate the laws relating to corn as much as possible to those which he had established en other subjects—that ha would place a protecting duty on corn,
1213Mr. Calcraft
* rose, and said:*Mr. Secretary Peel
1209 rose to present a petition, signed by between seven and eight thousand resident householders of Edinburgh, complaining of what was most unjustly called the representation of that city. He had presented petitions of the same nature for several sessions; and each year added strength to the complaints of the petitioners. It was a peculiar fact, that six persons belonging to the town council, which enjoyed the monopoly of appointing the representatives of Edinburgh, had signed the present petition. In so doing, they had afforded an incontestable proof that their sympathy with the great mass of the inhabitants of the city, was much greater than their sympathy with the small body constituting the corporation; and none could be better qualified to form a judgment on this subject, than they who were aware of what passed within the precincts of the select few, by whom the choice of representatives was made. On the first occasion when he presented this petition, he had presented it in the firm conviction that it was founded in truth and justice; and nothing had since occurred to alter that conviction. He had likewise presented it, because he believed that the citizens of Edinburgh would prosecute it with prudence, firmness, and perseverance: in that expectation, too, he had not been disappointed. He had also presented it, because he was convinced, not only that it would be prudent and just for the House to grant the reform which
1209Mr. Abercromby
 entirely concurred in the tribute of praise which had been paid to the speech of the right hon. gentleman. He considered the subject to be one of great importance, and sufficient to engage the attention of the greatest mind. In the general proposition laid down by the right hon. Secretary he fully agreed. No one, indeed, could deny that the law ought to be made accessible to all. He wished to express his great satisfaction at having lived to see the day when a minister of the Crown had risen in his place to declare his opinion, that the criminal law of the realm needed revision. Many members must recollect the difficulties which an hon. and learned friend of his had to encounter when he endeavoured to alter the criminal law. He had been told that it was presumption to attempt it. Upon the suggestion of that distinguished person, the House did, indeed, recognize the principle, that promptitude and certainty were essential requisites in the law. He entreated the right hon. gentleman to ask himself whether, the mere announcement of this measure did not proclaim the defects of the law; and he called upon him to prosecute still further his amendments of it. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that 8,000 persons had been convicted of capital crimes within seven years. He felt a desire, when this statement was made, to interrupt the right hon. gentleman with an inquiry as to how many of this number had been executed; for if that statement went forth, and it was believed that all the 8,000 had been executed, there would arise a most unjust and unfounded prejudice against the law of this country. He attributed a great proportion of the increased crime in the agricultural districts, to the operation of the game-laws. He trusted that the right hon. gentleman would keep those laws uppermost in his mind; and that some alteration in them, ere long, would add to the benefits which, by his jury-bill, as well as by the measure now before the House, the right hon. gentleman had conferred upon the country.Mr. Abercromby
1243 also thought that the increase of crime in the country was at-
1243Sir J. Sebright
 protested that he did not know how to frame an act of parliament which would prevent children from running about the streets; but any suggestion from the hon. member to that effect he should attend to with great pleasure. The provisions of his measure generally he wished to have thoroughly canvassed, and should feel obliged to any hon. gentleman who would take the trouble to suggest alterations in it. There was one alteration in the law relative to estreating recognizances which he should deem it peculiarly important to make as soon as possible. Nothing was more common than for persons who were bound over to appear as witnesses, upon prosecutions, and not called in court, to be actually arrested, perhaps years afterwards, owing to some error as to their appearance or non-appearance. As an instance of this vexatious practice, the right hon. gentleman stated the contents of a petition which he had just received from a prisoner in Shrewsbury gaol, who had been arrested on the estreating of his recognizances for a prosecution in the year 1818, he having been present in court while the trial went on, but not having been called as a witness. With respect to the payment of costs in cases of misdemeanor at sessions, he believed that they would be far lighter in amount if paid out of the county-rate than out of the general funds of the country. He had observed that all expenses allowed at sessions by magistrates who had an immediate desire to keep the county expenses down, were much lighter than those given by the judges of assize.Mr. Secretary Peel
 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to regulate vessels navigated by Steam in Scotland. The object of his bill was, he said, to prevent accidents, and to take care that the persons appointed to navigate Steam-vessels should be properly qualified, that the vessels should undergo examination, and be obliged to carry lights, and that in navigating them, they should follow the same rule as those observed by carriages in the streets.The Lord Advocate
 said, that the object of the bill was' to establish public rules for the regulation of steam vessels. Had those regulations been in existence a year ago, the accident in October last could not have occurred.The Lord Advocate
 trusted that the learned lord would withdraw his bill. The people of Scotland would not thank him for this interference. He might just as well bring in a bill to prohibit them from navigating by steam.Mr. Hobhouse
 had no immediate objection to the motion, but reserved his right on the introduction and discussion of the bill to suggest any curtailments, or to offer any clauses which he might deem necessary to prevent the infringement upon chartered rights and privileges of corporations.Mr. Goulburn
 hoped that the bill would be printed before it was discussed and that it would be sent over to Ireland, and ample time allowed for the statement of objections to it on the part of bodies interested.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that he looked on this bill as a great improvement in the laws of Ireland. It would go to cure, the abuses that were obvious to all; such as the registration of freeholds. He knew some counties and towns, in which freeholds were kept unregistered for years.Mr. R. Martin
1247 thought the measure ought not to be confined to Ireland. As a general principle of legislation, it was capable of being applied to many parts of this country with advantage. At the same time it was a question not free from difficulty, and he hoped no steps, would be taken but upon mature consideration and certain information. The greatest difficulty would be to provide a
1247Mr. Frankland Lewis
 concurred in the sentiments of the lion, gentleman, and advised that some steps should be taken for reforming local jurisdictions in England as well as in Ireland.Mr. Warre
1246 hoped that hon.
1246Mr. Secretary Canning
1251 said, he should not discharge his duty by giving a silent vote upon the present occasion; the more especially as he felt himself bound to oppose the motion. He did not believe that his right hon. friend had been guilty of any mis-statement, either in point of fact or of law. The question here was not between the charters, which required residence, and the 21st Geo. 2nd, which dispensed with residence, but it was a question between the act of Henry 7th, and the act of the 21st of Geo. 2nd. The act of Henry 7th required, that all freemen of cities and great towns should be residents; and the charters applied the provisions of that act to all boroughs; but the inconvenience was so great, that the legislature felt it necessary to do away with a restriction which, in their opinion at least, was unconstitutional; for the provision in the charters which, by the measure now proposed, it was intended to confirms was not an extension, but a restriction of the elective franchise. He did not hesitate to say, that many of the charters of James 1st were not, to say the least of them, favourable to the principles of the constitution; for in several of them the principle of restriction was applied to the elected as well as to the elector, and, in more cases than one, such restriction had been held to be unconstitutional. He did not mean now to discuss that principle, but it was sufficient for his purpose, that the legislature, in the time of George 2nd, had thought fit to repeal that restriction, as it applied to boroughs and corporate towns, and that that act had remained in force now nearly seventy years. The measure now proposed was not prospective, but, on the contrary, would have a retrospective operation, and would bear upon individuals who had for years been in possession of the elective franchise. The act of George 2nd declared that no person elected, to, or voting for, a candidate for any office in
1251Mr. Plunkett
 said, he would not offer any objection to the introduction of the bill, and to have it printed, in order to give an opportunity to those persons whose interests might be affected by it of seeing what were its provisions. At the same time that he did this out of respect to his right hon. friend, he would not conceal his opinion that the principle upon which the bill proceeded was highly objectionable. He thought that no existing interests ought to be interfered with, without giving to all the parties concerned the fullest opportunity of being heard on the subject.Mr. Hutchinson
 could not deny, that there had been instances in which these committees had been guilty of injustice; but, generally speaking, they had done their duty ably and impartially.Mr. S. Wortley
 would not agree to suffer this bill to advance a single stage without offering it his opposition. A bill more absurd or ill-digested had never been introduced into that House. It was impossible it could pass in its present form.Mr. J. Smith
1259 agreed with his hon. friend, that it was impossible the bill should pass
1259Mr. Hume
 said, that being favourable to the objects of the bill, he would not oppose the second reading; but it was obvious that it must undergo a total change in the committee, or be entirely inoperative; as, in its present shape, no parties could possibly act under its provisions. In fact, it was a mere copy of the Irish act of the last session, as garbled to meet the petty-fogging jealousies of the Bank of Ireland. It could not be conceived that such clauses could have originated with a great corporation like the Bank of England. These must necessarily be amended. To the principle of the measure, he repeated, he was entirely friendly.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 did not mean to offer any objection to the resolutions; but, as he understood the hon. member, the committee of appeal would rather have to try the merits of the former committee, than to decide on the question which had been the subject of the private bill. If this were so, he thought it would be attended with inconvenience. He gave his thanks to the hon. member for introducing these resolutions, because there were opinions in the public mind highly prejudicial to the character of committees on private bills.Lord A. Hamilton
 agreed, that it would be advisable to have the question of the Corn-laws settled as soon as might be practicable; but since a delay had taken place, he hoped ministers would avail themselves of it to consider the nature and extent of the burthens which at present attached to the land. Before any alteration could be effected in the nature of the Corn-laws, those burthens must be alleviated, and the agriculturists brought upon the same footing with respect to the demands as the manufacturing classes.Lord John Russell
 said, he trusted that the remedy before them for acknowledged evils would be found efficient. He was glad to hear that the law which so cruelly punished a boy for stealing an apple was to be revised. It was ridiculous to punish so trivial an offence in so severe a manner. He thought there were very few members of that House who had not been guilty of it. With regard to the matter of costs, they ought to be particularly cautious how they trusted magistrates with a discretionary power of that kind over the county rates. He meant particularly magistrates of towns who had large personal property, but which was not subject to the county rate. There were other ways in which the costs might be defrayed. In misdemeanors, for example, the punishment was fine and imprisonment. Now, could it not be so arranged, that magistrates should have the power of giving part, or all of the fine to the prosecutor?Mr. Sykes
 objected to any bill of this sort proposing intricate regulations, which it would be impossible to carry into effect. It would be better to leave the conduct of the captain free, and not to interfere with him.Mr. Sykes
12561255 rose for the purpose of redeeming the pledge he had given last session, to submit some resolutions on the subject of the formation of Committees on Private Bills. The House were aware that a committee was appointed on this subject in the last session, and had made a report, and some resolutions were founded on that report and printed; but, owing to the late period of the session, those resolutions had not been disposed of. He was glad the delay had taken place, because, upon, a more mature consideration of the subject, he found that one of the resolutions which he then intended to propose would not be so practicable as another course which had been since suggested to him. The House were aware that there were two committees necessary on a private bill. The first was on the petition for leave to bring in the bill, which had to examine whether the usual standing orders had been complied with, and whether all the parties interested had received due notice. In this committee, though its inquiries were only as to certain matters of form, it often happened that there was as much effort made by parties on both sides, as there was afterwards in the committee on the bill itself. The lists of counties
12561255Mr. Littleton
 said, that if the bill was brought in, it ought to be general. It was as much wanted in other parts of the kingdom as it was in Scotland.Sir E. Harvey
 complained of the interlocutory mode of discussing so important a subject, which had recently been adopted in both Houses of Parliament. He thought that the petitioners had no right to complain at present of the high price of corn. Their language appeared to him very like the language of rebellion. No other construction could properly be put upon the phrase, that the bonds of society must be broken, if the Corn laws continued much longer in operation.Mr. Sumner
12501249 said, he was sure that it was quite unnecessary for the right hon. baronet to disclaim interested motives, in bringing forward the present motion. He of all other men would be the last on whom an imputation of the kind would fairly rest. Yet, while he fully acquitted him of interested motives, ho could not concur with him in the views which he had taken on the subject under consideration. He did not conceive that the measure proposed would be attended with the benefits which were anticipated. On the contrary, he foresaw considerable inconvenience in it. The proposition of the right hon. baronet rested on one single
12501249Mr. Goulburn
 said, that he had himself prepared a measure on the subject, but he would not object to the introduction of the right hon. baronet's bill. He was glad to find that in some of the points he had the concurrence of the right hon. baronet. But in assenting to the introduction of this bill, he did not wish to be understood as pledging himself to support that part of the measure which related to pluralities.Mr. Goulburn
 condemned severely the tope of the petition, and he could only understand from it, that a threat was intended by the expression of breaking down the bonds of society. The petitioners were much deceived, if they expected that the distresses, under which they were now suffering, would be alleviated by the repeal of the Corn-laws. Whenever those laws were repealed, that repeal would be followed by a great diminution in the demand for their labour.Mr. Benett
 said, that if permission were given to import corn into this country without restriction, the result of it would be visible in a few years, in the production of a famine.Mr. Curwen
1242 expressed his concurrence with the House in their approbation of the measure of the right hon. Secretary. There was, he said, an absurd law, which prevented a prisoner from reading or seeing the indictment on which he was to be tried. That law ought to be repealed. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman, that we ought not to have an unconstitutional or preventive police, such as they had on the continent; but a strong protective police was a useful body. The old magisterial office of constable, when properly exercised, did much good. There still existed a similar officer in Germany, who possessed the power of detaining offenders for a day or night, until they were brought to a regular examination. We ought to have some such officer in England. It appeared that in the metropolis crime had not increased, but that in the country it had nearly doubled. Now, what was the difference to be attributed to, except the residence of an active police in the metropolis? Those straggling places in the country where the population was very great, and
1242Mr. Lockhart
 said, he would not directly oppose the bill, but he had great doubts of the utility of it. It was brought on in consequence of some recent accidents, which every one must lament; but he did not approve of the system of legislating upon particular events. The public might be left, he thought, to take care of itself. People would choose their steam-packets as they chose other conveniences that they wanted, and would take those which had the best reputation for safety.Mr. Hume
 strongly urged the learned lord to withdraw his bill.Mr. Hume
 presented a petition from the working manufacturers of Gorbals and other places, in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, praying for an alteration in the Corn laws. The hon. member observed, that although he considered the high price of corn to be almost as prejudicial to the farmer as to the manufacturer, he was not inclined to throw the ports entirely open at once. Whatever was done must be done gradually; but unless something was done, it would be impossible for the manufacturing labourers of the country to obtain subsistence for their families, at the present low rate of wages.Mr. Hume
1210 observed, that the hon. member had argued as if the existence of an abuse in one country was a sufficient excuse for the existence of another abuse in another country. He trusted that the House would take the state of the representation of Edinburgh into its immediate consideration, as nothing could be more disgraceful and unfair. The representative for that town was returned by thirty-three individuals, and not by the great mass of the property and respectability of the town. The consequence of this was, that almost every man's property in Edinburgh was disposed of, without his consent or knowledge. The government, which was making wholesome reforms in many of our institutions, could not do better than make a reform here; for no where could it be more salutary. He should be happy to see a perfect system of representation established. The interest and the honour of the country both required it, and the minister who carried such a system into
1210Mr. Hume
 protested against the assumption that the petition contained any improper language, still less any thing which Could be construed into a threat. He would be the last person to justify the use of improper language; but he thought that nothing ought to deter members from presenting petitions which contained perhaps a warm, but nevertheless an honest statement of the effect which the grievances they endured bad produced on their, minds. He thought that no time could be called improper for such a purpose.Mr. Hume
1241 said, he had never heard a proposition which gave him more unfeigned pleasure than the one just submitted to the House. But he wished to mention one important subject, which well deserved the attention of the right hon. gentleman. Throughout the country were to be seen asylums, penitentiaries, &c. for the reception of persons convicted of minor offences. If a man abstained from committing a felony, he might be all his life in the commission of misdemeanors and minor offences of every kind. The only punishment he underwent was, imprisonment in one of those receptacles, from which he came out worse than when he entered, and was allowed to recur to old habits and corrupt new associates. The great mischief was that of allowing the offenders to remain in this country. In his opinion, every person convicted of felony should be transported for life, and the gradation of punishment should be acted on in the place where the party was sent to. Such a mode of punishment would, in the first place, enable the criminal himself to contract moral habits, and would, in the next
1241Mr. N. Calvert
12531252 ventured to remind the right hon. secretary for Ireland of the his-
12531252Mr. R. Martin
 thought it was a mistake to attribute the increase of crime in the country to the operation of the game-laws. He rather looked for the cause of that increase in the poverty and privation endured by the lower classes. With respect to the payment of costs upon prosecutions for misdemeanor, he agreed in the principle, but thought the expense should be defrayed, not out of the county rate, which touched only one description of property, but out of the general taxation of the country.Mr. Estcourt
 supported the motion of his right hon. friend. He thought the right hon. secretary for Ireland had misstated both the fact and the law.Mr. Spring Rice
 considered the speech of the right hon. Secretary the most luminous statement he had ever heard. As to the expenses of public prosecutions, they ought to be defrayed out of some particular fund. They fell at present on landed property, which was unable to bear further burthens.Mr. Dickinson
 explained, that he had no wish to repress a discussion on the subject of the Corn-laws, if any argument was to be offered to the House; but when he had heard the petitioners using the terms "relentless obduracy," he had been apprehensive that a debate might arise, the tendency of which would be to produce irritation, without throwing any light on the subject which had occasioned it. With respect to the sentiments of the government on this question, he hoped the hon. gentleman would himself admit, that as a time had been fixed for its discussion, ministers would do better to reserve themselves, than to embrace the opportunity which was now offered, by the figurative petition from Gorbals.Mr. Peel
1239123812371236armis et contra pacem?1235vi etprofert, or prout patet per recordam123412331232123112301229122812271226s.1225s.s.122412231222for the better preservation of hollies, thorns, and quicksets in forests, chases, and private grounds, and of trees and underwoods in forests and chases;and for preventing the stealing or destroying of madder roots."1221122012191218121712161215*From the original edition, printed for Hatchard and Son, Piccadilly.: I hope, Sir, that the House is prepared to give me its attention, whilst I explain the object of those measures connected with the Criminal Law which I am about to submit to its consideration. To many, I fear, this subject may appear barren and uninviting. It can borrow no excitement from political feelings, nor can it awaken the hopes or fears of conflicting parties; but it involves higher interests, it concerns the security of property—the prevention of crime—the moral habits of the people—and it prefers, therefore, a just and imperative demand on the serious attention of parliament.1239123812371236armis et contra pacem?1235vi etprofert, or prout patet per recordam123412331232123112301229122812271226s.1225s.s.122412231222for the better preservation of hollies, thorns, and quicksets in forests, chases, and private grounds, and of trees and underwoods in forests and chases;and for preventing the stealing or destroying of madder roots."1221122012191218121712161215*From the original edition, printed for Hatchard and Son, Piccadilly.Mr. Speaker
 hoped, if any enactment were deemed necessary, that it would be applicable to all parts of the empire. The best regulation that could be suggested was that which prevailed in the royal navy, in which, by given signals, each ship knew on which side of the other it ought to pass. Had that principle obtained, the fatal accident alluded to could not have happened.Sir C. Cole
 approved of the measure, but objected to the expense likely to be cast upon each county by the prosecutions for assaults and certain other offences. He was aware that this was a serious charge upon individuals, but he nevertheless hoped that the right hon. gentleman would be cautious in adding this burthen to the county rates. He was surprised to hear an hon. member state that there was no specific mode of punishing persons guilty of child-stealing, otherwise than by prosecuting the parties for stealing the clothes. The fact was, that the act of the 34th of George 3rd, c. 101, made the stealing of children a grand larceny.Sir G. Chetwynd
 said, that as the hon. and learned member had given notice of his intention of fixing a day for the discussion of the representative system of Scotland, he should not follow him at present into the remarks which he had made upon that subject. He should only say, that he was sorry that the learned gentleman had not presented his petition, when the representative for Edinburgh was in the House, as he could have gone more ably into the subject than he himself could do. There was, however, nothing peculiar in the representation of Edinburgh which required a particular law to cure and remedy it. The House had no more right to take away the exclusive right of election from the corporation of Edinburgh, than it had to take it away from the corporations of Bath and Portsmouth, which equally enjoyed it. Such rights were never taken away from any parties by the House, unless it was shown that they had been guilty of gross corruption in the exercise of them.Sir G. Clerk
 had strong doubts of the propriety of such a bill as this. Unless the learned lord could show that there was a necessity for the measure, it would be better not to interfere. In consequence of some accidents which happened between Liverpool and Dublin some years ago, a bill containing regulations of this sort requiring inspection, &c. was enacted; but the law was altogether neglected. A law of this sort was as applicable to stage coaches as to steam-vessels.Sir H. Parnell
1244 suggested that
1244Mr. Alderman Brydges
d.s.1240 said, that no act of the right hon. Secretary would hand down his name to posterity with so much ho-
d.s.1240Sir M. W. Ridley
 was anxious to add his voice to the general expression of approbation bestowed on the clear and able speech of the right hon. Secretary. He thought the expenses of prosecutions for assaults on officers in the discharge of their duty ought to be paid by the government.Mr. C. Wilson
 highly approved of the proposed measure, but wished to call the attention of the right hon. gentleman to a species of offence which harrowed up the feelings and destroyed the happiness of so many. He alluded to the crime of child-stealing. At present, a person might steal a child with impunity, the law punishing only for the robbery of the clothes. He trusted that such an outrage upon humanity and reason would be got rid of.Sir R. Wilson
 said, he had heard no arguments which could induce him to withdraw his motion, and as he was convinced of the utility of the measure, he would take the sense of the House on it.Sir J. Newport
l.1254l.,l.,l.,l. rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to prevent Episcopal Unions in Ireland, and to restrain the granting of Dispensations. The bill, he observed, would secure to the Irish people the residence of their clergy in the parishes to which they were attached, and would restrain archbishops and bishops from making unions of parishes, for the purpose of providing for some of their friends in the church. The extent to which this power was carried would surprise the House; but he would not now enter into any of the details. There was one instance in which a bishop had united six parishes in one county with one situated in another; so that it was certain the clergyman could not be a resident where he might be most required. He would mention only another case, which was stated last year in the House by the hon. member for Louth; that a parish producing an income of 500l.1254l.,l.,l.,l.Sir John Newport
 would object to the motion. If the people of Scotland were not to be trusted with the management of their own steam-boats in their own way, it would be much better to introduce a bill to prevent them from using them altogether.Sir J. Newport
1248 rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal the act of 21 Geo. 2nd, chap. 10, sec. 8 (Irish statutes), commonly called the Newtown act. In that act there was a clause for regulating the election of members of parliament in Ireland, in which it was provided, that in any borough or town corporate, not being a city, in which a number of resident Protestants, sufficient for the purposes of that act, did not exist, the right of voting should be extended to, and exercised by Protestants non-resident therein. In the year 1780, by a most beneficial statute, one of the clauses of this act was utterly done away with. By a-strange misconception the Test act was still supposed to be in force in Ireland; and he remembered, in the year 1810, that one of the cabinet ministers had told him, that his principal objection to Catholic emancipation was the Test act, although that act bad been done away with in the year 1793, just seventeen years before. In the year 1793, the legislature, acting on a more liberal scale of policy with respect to the interests of Ireland than had been formerly adopted, repealed many of the laws that shackled the energies of the country, and, among others, the law was repealed by which Catholics were prevented from voting, at elections for the return of members to serve in parliament. By this measure the Catholic freeholders of Ireland were allowed to participate in the privileges enjoyed by their Protestant fellow-subjects. Much had certainly been done for Ireland by the repeal of obnoxious statutes; but much remained to do before the Statute-book could be freed from nanny existing laws (the remnants
1248Sir John Newport
1286 said, that the difference of the expenditure in the commissariat department, between the present and the preceding year, arose almost entirely from the increased price of provisions; bread, meat, and forage, had all advanced in price during the last two years. The expenditure in this department for 1825 was considerably beyond that of the three preceding years. The sum voted for that year did not cover the expense; and the estimate of the present year was formed on the actual expense incurred in 1825. As to the commissariat staff on foreign stations, particularly at Canada and the Cape, the number was not greater than the business required. By reducing the number, they would incur an additional expense, instead of effecting a saving, Every reduction that could possibly be made in this department had been made. But it should be observed, that various duties connected with the disbursement of money for the service of government were performed by the officers of this department; which, if not executed by them, must be performed by others; and this circumstance, he conceived, would satisfactorily account for the increase to which the hon. member had adverted. The number had, at one time, been considerably reduced: but in consequence of a representation from the commander of the forces, backed by many individuals perfectly qualified to give advice on this subject, it was thought proper to increase this useful body. It was not, however, brought back to its former amount, but was so far enlarged as to make it sufficient for the performance of all its duties. Those duties were various and important. In Canada a larger number were necessary than elsewhere, on account of the out-stations; and at times they had the charge of considerable sums of the pub-
1286Mr. Herries
 begged to call the serious attention of ministers to this subject. The declaration of the Secretary to the Treasury was, that in consequence of the certain mortality at Sierra Leone, it was necessary to send out two officers to each appointment. He was quite aware of the value of colonies to a great empire; but surely Great Britain had foreign possessions enough, without clinging with such pertinacity to a settlement which was the destruction of all the British subjects sent out to it. It seemed to him quite abominable, that an hon. gentleman, himself high in office, and surrounded by the king's ministers, should venture to make a statement, which only showed that government was actuated by little less than infatuation, in thus despatching men to their graves on the coast of Africa. He spoke from no impulse of opposition, but from a strong feeling of humanity, and a desire to save the valuable lives of the king's subjects. Ministers would have to account to God and their country, for this wanton waste of human existence. If Sierra Leone could not be abandoned without serious detriment, there might be some excuse for keeping it. He called upon ministers to give some hope that this fatal colony would be relinquished, and left to the possession of the deadly maladies by which it was infested.Mr. Hutchinson
1287 said, that any person who believed the colony in question to be preserved in consequence of an abstract love of colonization, took a very narrow view of the question. It should be recollected, that the possession of this colony was connected with one of the most solemn acts ever agreed to by parliament. It ought to be recollected that the possession of this colony was considered essential to the carrying into effect that great and most humane object, the abolition of negro slavery. If they gave up that place to-morrow, they would undo much of what they had previously done for the purpose of destroying the traffic in slaves. Let it not be forgotten, that there were at the present moment 18,000 liberated Africans in Sierra Leone. He regretted as much as any man the loss
1287Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, that there were two questions connected with Sierra Leone; first, as to the trade that could be carried on there; and next, whether, if that place were abandoned, another situation could be found equally well calculated for checking the slave trade; Fernando Po, for instance. At present, an enormous expense was incurred by this country in its endeavours to put an end to that traffic; and he was sorry to say, that though this government was actuated by a sincere feeling to do away with the slave-trade, it was carried on by foreign powers, under circumstances of accumulated horror and oppression. If he were rightly informed, the representations made to the French government by the British ambassador at Paris on this subject, did not meet with that attention which they deserved. Here they were, year after year, expending large sums of money, and devising what appeared to be the best means for suppressing the slave-trade; and what happened after all their exertions? Why, they found that trade carried on, without regulation and without mitigation, by those very powers who had been paid to give it up. In fact, all their efforts appeared to have given silent encouragement to this shameful trade.Mr. Bernal
1288 assured the House, that there had appeared, on the part of the French government, a sincere desire to carry into effect the provisions which had been entered into, and the assurances which had been given, relative to the abolition of the slave trade. He begged leave to state one fact, as a proof of the sincerity of the French government. About a fortnight ago information had been received that slave-ships were then fitting out at Nantes. The fact was brought home decidedly, and the conse-
1288Mr. Secretary Canning
l.d.,s.l.l.l.1271l,l.l.l.12701269l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.1268l.l.1267l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.1266l.l.l.l.l.1265l.l.d.s.l.1264s.s.d.s.l.l.l.1263l.l.l.1262l.l.,l.s.s.s.l.l.l.l.1261l.1260 rose to address the House. He began by observing that, though he had heard a great deal lately of the mischief arising from overtrading, he had not heard it stated that the right hon. gentleman opposite had taken any pact, in producing, any of the inconve-
l.d.,s.l.l.l.1271l,l.l.l.12701269l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.1268l.l.1267l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.1266l.l.l.l.l.1265l.l.d.s.l.1264s.s.d.s.l.l.l.1263l.l.l.1262l.l.,l.s.s.s.l.l.l.l.1261l.1260Mr. Maberly
1274l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1273l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.1272l. rose, and expressed his intention of detaining the House but for a short time in answering the observations of the hon. member for Abingdon. The hon. member had confined his speech to two points. In the first, he took a retrospective view of the conduct of government with respect to the unfunded debt; and in the other, he had alluded, with no small condemnation, to the manner in which the government had managed the funded debt. The hon. member had accused the government of confusion in making up the accounts of the funded debt. The confusion existed only in the ideas of the honourable member; and greater confusion than prevailed there he had never known. The hon. member, some time ago, had called for a paper, to show the state of the funded debt, which the House ordered to be produced. The hon. member had directed, that in that paper an estimate should be made of the total value of the annuity of 2,800,0001274l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1273l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.1272l.Mr. Herries
l.1278l.l.l.l.l.,12771276l.l.,l.1275 said, he fully concurred in what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, that it would not be proper to enter into any discussion upon the present occasion, which could have the effect of anticipating the statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer. For that statement the public were waiting with the utmost anxiety. The trade, the credit, and the circulation of the country, would depend, in a great measure, upon the disclosures of the right hon. gentleman, and he would regret if he should be drawn into it prematurely. The question they had now to consider Was the unfunded debt. He fully agreed with the hon. gentleman, that it would be acting in rather an unusual way to place upon the Journals the long resolution proposed by the hon. member for Abingdon, until the House had first heard what the chancellor of the Exchequer meant to bring forward. He felt very anxious to know what were the intentions of the right hon. gentleman with respect to the unfunded debt; but as he would in all probability explain his views relative to it on Monday, it would be inconvenient to press him into it at present. If the House should be of opinion that the plans of the right hon. gentleman were such as ought not to be adopted, then would be the time for his hon. friend to come forward with his resolutions. With respect to the amount of unfunded debt, it might be too much or too little, at any particular time, according to circumstances. At one time, forty millions might circulate without inconvenience; while, at another time, it would be considerably too much. The propriety or impropriety, therefore, of any particular amount depended entirely upon circumstances. He differed entirely however from the hon. gentleman opposite
l.1278l.l.l.l.l.,12771276l.l.,l.1275Mr. Baring
1281l.l.l.l.l.1280s.s.l.,l.1279 said, he did not feel it necessary to detain the House by making a long reply. As the subject was to be discussed on Monday, discussion now would tend to confuse the matter, as much as the papers moved? for by the hon. member for Abingdon would confound the question to which they related. He had one or two remarks to make on the statement of the hon. member for Taunton, respecting the reduction of the unfunded debt, to satisfy the House that no blame was imputable to government, He conceived that he was not called upon to go into a review of the financial operations of the last tea years, and to inquire whether the government ought, at any given period, to have funded Exchequer-bills, and reduced the amount of the unfunded debt. He would; say, however, that great efforts were made for that object. If the hon. gentleman had gone as far back as the year 1816, he would have found that on the 5th of
1281l.l.l.l.l.1280s.s.l.,l.1279The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.,l.l.l.l.1283l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.,l,s.l.s.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.1282l.l.l., said, that the observations of the right hon. gentleman had not at all met the statements of his hon. friend, the member for Abingdon. His hon. friend's accounts had been characterized as confused and fallacious; but none of the fallacy or confusion had as yet been proved. Now, if a man, calculating the full extent of all he owed in the world in the year 1819, found it amount to 20,000l.,l.l.l.l.1283l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.,l,s.l.s.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.1282l.l.l.,Mr. Hume
 said, that having heard what he had, he should not press the motion to a division.Mr. Maberly
 felt ready to give the hon. member for Southwark every satisfaction in his power; but he must be aware that it was unlikely for him to have any particular information as to time. He had not, however, the least hesitation in saying, that the hon. member himself could not be more anxious to see the French army out of Spain than was the French government to withdraw it. It had unfortunately happened that several partial attacks had been made upon the established order of things in Spain, which had been equally mischievous, useless, and unprofitable. This had obliged the French troops to be kept there longer than was originally intended; but he was completely convinced, that the French government were as anxious to withdraw their troops from Spain as the hon. member was that they should be so withdrawn.Mr. Secretary Canning
1289 believed that no measure—not even a blockade through the whole line of coast—could effect the abolition of the trade, so long as slavery existed. He did not think that the hon. member for Aberdeen stated the subject fairly by putting it in comparative views of expense. It might be unprofitable to keep an establishment at Sierra Leone, but the question was as to its usefulness. In this view there could be no doubt in any mind after duly considering the cir-
1289Mr. Wilmot Horton
l.l.1290 said, it was owing to various expenses necessarily incurred by the increase of business in the foreign and colonial offices particularly. The salary of the colonial counsel was in-
l.l.1290Mr. Wilmot Horton
l.1291 said, that nothing could be more easy for the hon. gentleman than to make such declarations, and nothing more easy for himself than to say, that there was not in that declaration a word of truth. He could not concur in the opinion of the hon. member, that every governor against whom complaint might be made, ought to be turned off at once. He thought the proper course would be, when a complaint was made, to institute inquiry; and such inquiries had, upon many occasions, been instituted. Was it likely that any member of his majesty's government, liable as they were to public opinion, and the opinion of parliament, would wish to support a governor, who had by misconduct forfeited the confidence of the country? He did not stand up to justify the conduct of governors, or to say that no governor had done any thing which would justify inquiry, or perhaps removal, but he thought no government would be justified in removing a governor, in consequence of complaints which might be made against him, without having previously instituted an inquiry; and he was ready to admit that the inquiry ought to take place as soon as the nature of the circumstances would admit. Were there not proceedings now pending of that very nature f He denied that any unnecessary expense had been incurred in the government of the colonies. When the committee considered that we had no less than thirty-four scattered up and down in different parts of the world, they would be convinced that no small expense must be in-
l.1291Mr. Wilmot Horton
1292 admitted that every well-founded complaint ought to
1292Mr. Secretary Canning
 suggested, that the chairman should report progress, and the hon. member might bring on his motion at a future day, on bringing up the report.Sir R. Fergusson
 said, he was convinced from the speech which the noble lord had just made, that he agreed in opinion with his hon. friend who had brought forward this motion, though in his situation it might not be prudent to avow it. The analogy which a gallant general had endeavoured to draw between the soldiers of foreign powers and our own army ought not to be permitted for a single moment. The former were the subjects of despotic powers; the latter were the subjects of a free state. As far as his own personal experience went, he had always observed, that the best discipline was preserved in those regiments where corporal punishment was least frequently inflicted. From this he inferred, that whilst regiments were employed on home service, their discipline could be maintained without having recourse to the whip, or the cat-o'-nine-tails.Sir R. Fergusson
1305 observed, that having been in the performance of regimental duty for thirty years, he might be permitted to say, that he brought at least the benefit of experience to this question. Corporal punishments had formerly been
1305General Townshend
 said, that the whole argument of the gallant general opposite, went to prove, that the chief good to be derived from the soldier must first be flogged into him. For his own part, he thought that if commanders would only contrive to command their own tempers, there would be but little recourse to that disgraceful, unnecessary, and detestable punishment,Colonel Johnson
 could not say whether his hon. friend included him in the firm of Macauley and Co. but he could assure him, that he agreed with them as to the necessity of putting an end to slavery. It was on the recommendation of Mr. Wilber-force that this colony was first established, and such a measure could only have been suggested by the most praiseworthy motives. In exclaiming against the expense and loss of lives in this colony, it was singular that no allusion was made to other colonies liable to the same objection, established to continue the slave trade. What had been the state of our own colonies in the West Indies I In 1796, when a large force was sent to the West Indies, almost one half of the soldiers, at least of the officers, had died. He certainly lamented that mortality, as well as that of Sierra Leone; but, considering the latter station as settled for purposes of the highest benevolence, he could not refuse to vote for this item of expenditure.Mr. Sykes
12971296 said, that he did not think the present moment a proper one for the discussion of a question of such vast importance. The principle of the resolutions he concurred in to its full extent, and would continue to support, as long as he had a seat in that House. But he did think that, instead of being thus introduced, the question should be made the subject of a specific motion, as it had been when formerly introduced by an hon. baronet (sir F. Burdett), whom he did not then see in his place, and to whose humane exertions might be attributed the improvement which had already been made in our military discipline on this point. If a specific motion were made on the subject, the whole of the facts connected with it might be brought before the House in detail; and then he
12971296Mr. J. Smith
1285l. complained, that this charge was annually increasing. In 1822 it had been lowered, but since that, the House had retrograded; and they had now absolutely come back to a charge as great as that of 1821. But this applied equally to every branch connected with the army. In consequence of reductions that were made in the army in 1821 and 1822, the House had allowed the pension-list to be increased to the amount of at least 500,0001285l.Mr. Hume
 took that opportunity of denying that the increased expense was incurred in preparing returns by order of this House; but the fact was, that the government kept governors at the Cape of Good Hope and other colonies, against whom so many complaints were made, that nearly the whole time of the persons engaged in the colonial departments was occupied in examining those complaints. The only way to save that expense would be, to call home every governor, whatever might be his rank or family, against whom complaints had been frequently made.Mr. Hume
l. said, that they had the evidence of sir G. Collier, and all the practical men who had been there, to show that the situation of Sierra Leone was one which was not at all adapted to the humane purpose of the abolitionists. Messrs. Macaulay and Co. had made a bad choice of their head-quarters. It would turn out that they had effected the reverse of their intentions. There was no hope of improving, much less of civilizing Africa by that settlement. They had the evidence of major Laing, who had gone fifty miles into the interior only two years ago; he asserted that he was the first European ever seen so far in the country. The uselessness of a colony which had cost 1,800,000l.Mr. Hume
 wished to know why there was an increase in these estimates for the present year.Mr. Hume
129512941293 rose for the purpose of submitting a clause for the abolition of a practice which had long existed in the army of this country—he meant the punishment of flogging the soldiery. He was aware that on this occasion he should have to encounter the prejudices of many hon. members who were officers in the army, and who, from being in the habit of witnessing such punishments frequently, did not entertain the same feelings of the propriety of its abolition that might be supposed to actuate other men. However; he did hope that they would give the subject a calm consideration, and if it should be made to appear that any other mode of punishment would be equally effectual, that they would consent to its abolition. The evil of flogging did not consist merely in the bodily torture inflicted on the individual who was thus punished; it had also the bad effect of rendering those who were obliged to witness such scenes more callous and indifferent lo their duties than before. It had precisely this effect upon the persons punished; and he might appeal to the ex-
129512941293Mr. Hume
 replied, that he was unjustly accused of indulging in sweeping charges. How often had he called for inquiry respecting the Ionian Islands? And, for the last five years, had he not pressed on the government the necessity of instituting investigations respecting the Cape of Good Hope? But, what did the government do? Instead of taking the part of the colonists, and listening to their complaints, they always took part with the governors against the colonists. He was not for the dismission of any man from office without inquiry; but when complaints were made, and in a manner that merited attention, he would have the government institute inquiry, and act decidedly on the result of such inquiry.Mr. Hume
l. would not say whether Sierra Leone was the best situation that could have been chosen; but the experiment had at least proved, that persons of the African race and colour might be brought into a state of social and civilized life. This, under all the circumstances, was an important fact established; and he had no hesitation in voting for the grant.l.Mr. Carus Wilson
 said, that they heard much of the loss and waste of human life at Sierra Leone in preventing slavery; but there was no mention at all of the excessive waste of life incurred in supporting slavery in the West Indies.Mr. Evans
 said, he perfectly coincided with his gallant friend, that it was the nature of the punishment and not the severity of it, which was to be objected to. He thought some other mode might be devised equally effectual; such as stoppage of pay or provisions; at any rate, any expedient was preferable to flogging. There might be some few individuals in the army of such base and callous minds, that nothing but flogging could have any effect upon them; but it was neither just nor proper, that in order to meet these few peculiar cases, the comfort and credit of the whole army should be sacrificed.Mr. W. Smith
 deprecated the infliction of corporal punishment.Sir F. Blake
130113001299 thought it rather unfair in the hon. member for Aberdeen to charge officers with want of feeling, because they were frequently obliged to witness the infliction of corporal punishments. No class of men, he would assert, were more alive to feelings of compassion. He did not deny the statement of the hon. member (Mr. J. Smith), that such feelings as he had described might be called forth from a mob witnessing a punishment. It was impossible not to have feelings of compassion, in seeing a fellow-man suffer; but it was one thing to have those feelings, and another to legislate on them. It would be inconsistent with sound policy to legislate on such feelings alone; and, in looking to military punishment, it should be considered whether the discipline of the army could be kept up without them. He was no friend to severe punishment of any kind; but he did think that the power of inflicting corporal punishment was necessary to the discipline of an army. He knew of no instance of any army, ancient or modern, without similar punishments. They were in use in the Roman army, and it would not be denied that they were kept in the highest state of discipline. It was not a fact, as the hon. member had stated, that the punishment of flogging was altogether abolished in America. But suppose it were so, what comparison was there between an army of 6,000 men, scattered over the immense surface of that country, and the extensive army kept up in this? The regulations of the two armies might be extremely different, and, at the same time, be applicable to the circumstances of the country. America did not want a standing army. What power would invade America? Her power was derived from a force of another description, and, the state of discipline of her troops would
130113001299Sir G. Murray
1298 gave his entire concurrence to tile-resolutions; because he was convinced that the system of flogging in the army was improper, and ought to be abolished. It was improper, because every man knew that honour was the essence of a soldier's profession; and when
1298Sir J. Brydges
13031302 said, he would not enter into any particular exemplification of a painful nature; but he would state generally, that his experience left no doubt on his mind, that the sort of punishment under discussion was one which ought to be abolished. It continued to exist in our military code, though every other power in Europe had rejected it. No such punishment was known in France, nor in many parts of Germany; nor in any shape similar to our own, even in Austria. In Holland it was completely abolished. The king of the Netherlands, on his return to that country, confirmed a decree previously issued for its abolition, and it had not since been re-introduced. The abolition had been attended with no prejudice whatever to the military service of that country. The gallant general had
13031302Sir R. Wilson
1284 seeing the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, would take the opportunity of asking a question which concerned the honour, the interest, and, ultimately, the security of the country. Last year, the
1284Sir R. Wilson,
1304 said, he did not wish to put the question on unfair grounds, lie was ready to admit, that whenever punishment was accompanied with ignominy it must necessarily have the effect of hardening the offender; but he conceived that the doing away with this punishment would have the effect of introducing other and greater evils. There was something in the constitution of an army which required some stronger and more speedy power to control it, than was necessary for the regulation of a mere civil body. Indeed, the history of every age and. country showed this; and he would assert without fear of contradiction, that corppral punishment had prevailed in every army which had ever existed; and whether that punishment was administered with a cane or with a lash, did not seem to him to make much difference; at least with regard to the ignominy of it, urtjlch1 appeared to be the greatest objection been raised against it. He could assure the House, that a dispo-
1304Lord Palmerston
And by opposing—end them;""To take up arms against that siege of troubles,133413331332l.l.;l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.1331l.l.1330l.;1329l.£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826740,912
740,912400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.
400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.
£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.£.619,088Produce of 1825
£.619,088Produce of 1825MISCELLANEOUS.
MISCELLANEOUS.
£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826740,912
740,912400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.
400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.
£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.£.619,088Produce of 1825
£.619,088Produce of 1825MISCELLANEOUS.
MISCELLANEOUS.£.1,550,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,550,000Estimate for 182645,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826
45,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.
£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.POST-OFFICE.
POST-OFFICE.
£.1,550,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,550,000Estimate for 182645,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826
45,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.
£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.POST-OFFICE.
POST-OFFICE.£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826
£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825
190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825£.4,990,961Produce of 1825
£.4,990,961Produce of 1825TAXES.
TAXES.
£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826
£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825
190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825£.4,990,961Produce of 1825
£.4,990,961Produce of 1825TAXES.
TAXES.£.7,400,000Estimate for 1826
£.7,400,000Estimate for 182647,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826
47,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.
£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.STAMPS.
STAMPS.
£.7,400,000Estimate for 1826
£.7,400,000Estimate for 182647,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826
47,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.
£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.STAMPS.
STAMPS.£.37,446,000Estimate for 1826
£.37,446,000Estimate for 18261,650,000
1,650,0001,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption
1,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year
£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year£.39,096,000
£.39,096,0001,550,000
1,550,000450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty
450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty
£.37,446,000Estimate for 1826
£.37,446,000Estimate for 18261,650,000
1,650,0001,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption
1,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year
£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year£.39,096,000
£.39,096,0001,550,000
1,550,000450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty
450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty13281,050,000Wine Drawback
1,050,000Wine Drawback£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties
£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.
£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.
1,050,000Wine Drawback
1,050,000Wine Drawback£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties
£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.
£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.1327l.,l.l;ll.l.l.;l.;l.l.;l.l.l.1326£.102,000Decrease.
£.102,000Decrease.190,933The produce in 1826 was.
190,933The produce in 1826 was.292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.
292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.£.
£.
£.102,000Decrease.
£.102,000Decrease.190,933The produce in 1826 was.
190,933The produce in 1826 was.292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.
292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.£.
£.l.£.2,389Decrease
£.2,389Decrease2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were.
2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were. 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.
 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.£.
£.
£.2,389Decrease
£.2,389Decrease2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were.
2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were. 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.
 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.£.
£.l.1325l.;l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,1324l.l.l.£39,096,000We have a Total of
£39,096,000We have a Total of37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.
37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.£1,550,000
£1,550,000450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.
450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.
1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties
50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties£.
£.
£39,096,000We have a Total of
£39,096,000We have a Total of37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.
37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.£1,550,000
£1,550,000450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.
450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.
1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties
50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties£.
£.l.1323l.l.l.;1322l.£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.
£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure
56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.
£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.
4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.
£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.1,360,000Miscellaneous
1,360,000Miscellaneous1,550,000Post Office
1,550,000Post Office4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed
4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed7,400,000Stamps
7,400,000Stamps37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion
37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year
£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year
£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.
£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure
56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.
£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.
4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.
£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.1,360,000Miscellaneous
1,360,000Miscellaneous1,550,000Post Office
1,550,000Post Office4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed
4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed7,400,000Stamps
7,400,000Stamps37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion
37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year
£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year1321£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year
£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge
£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge£.18,711,000Annual Votes,
£.18,711,000Annual Votes,£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.
£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.2,225,000Miscellaneous
2,225,000Miscellaneous1,754,000Ordnance
1,754,000Ordnance6,135,000Navy
6,135,000Navy7,747,000Army
7,747,000Army£
£
£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year
£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge
£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge£.18,711,000Annual Votes,
£.18,711,000Annual Votes,£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.
£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.2,225,000Miscellaneous
2,225,000Miscellaneous1,754,000Ordnance
1,754,000Ordnance6,135,000Navy
6,135,000Navy7,747,000Army
7,747,000Army£
££.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund
£.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund5,585,235Sinking Fund
5,585,235Sinking Fund2,800,000Half-pay Annuity
2,800,000Half-pay Annuity2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote
2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills
50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept
27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept£
£
£.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund
£.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund5,585,235Sinking Fund
5,585,235Sinking Fund2,800,000Half-pay Annuity
2,800,000Half-pay Annuity2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote
2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills
50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept
27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept£
£13201319And bloody treason flourished over us:"Then you, and I, and all of us fell down,"Oh what a fall was there, my countrymen!1318l.l.l.,l.l.1317l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,131613151314l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,1313l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.viz.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.1312l.l.l.l.1311l.l.l.£.156,838,000Total
£.156,838,000Total52,259,000…1825
52,259,000…182552,562,000…1824
52,562,000…1824£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 1823
£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 1823
£.156,838,000Total
£.156,838,000Total52,259,000…1825
52,259,000…182552,562,000…1824
52,562,000…1824£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 1823
£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 18231310£.155,440,000Total
£.155,440,000Total51,975,000…1825
51,975,000…182551,265,000…1824
51,265,000…1824£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823
£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823
£.155,440,000Total
£.155,440,000Total51,975,000…1825
51,975,000…182551,265,000…1824
51,265,000…1824£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823
£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.1309130813071306*** rose to make his promised exposition of the Financial Situation of the Country, and addressed the committee as followsAnd by opposing—end them;""To take up arms against that siege of troubles,133413331332l.l.;l.l.,l.,l.,l.l.1331l.l.1330l.;1329l.£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826740,912
740,912400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.
400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.
£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.£.619,088Produce of 1825
£.619,088Produce of 1825MISCELLANEOUS.
MISCELLANEOUS.
£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,360,000Estimate for 1826740,912
740,912400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.
400,000Add also—Silver from Ireland.£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.
£.340,912Add—Payment from Holland, Lottery, and East India Company, on account of naval force.£.619,088Produce of 1825
£.619,088Produce of 1825MISCELLANEOUS.
MISCELLANEOUS.£.1,550,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,550,000Estimate for 182645,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826
45,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.
£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.POST-OFFICE.
POST-OFFICE.
£.1,550,000Estimate for 1826
£.1,550,000Estimate for 182645,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826
45,461Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.
£.1,595,461Produce of 1825.POST-OFFICE.
POST-OFFICE.£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826
£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825
190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825£.4,990,961Produce of 1825
£.4,990,961Produce of 1825TAXES.
TAXES.
£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826
£.4,800,000Estimate for 1826190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825
190,961Deduct loss from reduction in 1825£.4,990,961Produce of 1825
£.4,990,961Produce of 1825TAXES.
TAXES.£.7,400,000Estimate for 1826
£.7,400,000Estimate for 182647,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826
47,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.
£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.STAMPS.
STAMPS.
£.7,400,000Estimate for 1826
£.7,400,000Estimate for 182647,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826
47,923Deduct assumed loss in 1826£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.
£.7,447,923Produce of 1825.STAMPS.
STAMPS.£.37,446,000Estimate for 1826
£.37,446,000Estimate for 18261,650,000
1,650,0001,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption
1,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year
£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year£.39,096,000
£.39,096,0001,550,000
1,550,000450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty
450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty
£.37,446,000Estimate for 1826
£.37,446,000Estimate for 18261,650,000
1,650,0001,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption
1,300,000Further loss from diminished consumption£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year
£350,000Deduct—Further loss from Reductions last year£.39,096,000
£.39,096,0001,550,000
1,550,000450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty
450,000Loss by lapse of Tobacco duty13281,050,000Wine Drawback
1,050,000Wine Drawback£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties
£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.
£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.
1,050,000Wine Drawback
1,050,000Wine Drawback£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties
£.50,000Add—Progressive Reduction of Bounties£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.
£.37,546,000Produce of 1825.CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.
CUSTOMS AND EXCISE.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.1327l.,l.l;ll.l.l.;l.;l.l.;l.l.l.1326£.102,000Decrease.
£.102,000Decrease.190,933The produce in 1826 was.
190,933The produce in 1826 was.292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.
292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.£.
£.
£.102,000Decrease.
£.102,000Decrease.190,933The produce in 1826 was.
190,933The produce in 1826 was.292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.
292,933The produce in January and February1825, was.£.
£.l.£.2,389Decrease
£.2,389Decrease2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were.
2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were. 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.
 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.£.
£.
£.2,389Decrease
£.2,389Decrease2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were.
2,257,280Those from January and February 1826, were. 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.
 2,259,669The gross receipts for January and February, 1825, were.£.
£.l.1325l.;l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,1324l.l.l.£39,096,000We have a Total of
£39,096,000We have a Total of37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.
37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.£1,550,000
£1,550,000450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.
450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.
1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties
50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties£.
£.
£39,096,000We have a Total of
£39,096,000We have a Total of37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.
37,546,000If to this be added the actual produce of the Customs and Excise in 1825.£1,550,000
£1,550,000450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.
450,000Loss by the lapse of Tobacco duty.1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.
1,050,000Wine Drawback, allowed last year to the wine merchants, but not to be deducted from this year's revenue.50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties
50,000Progressive reduction of Bounties£.
£.l.1323l.l.l.;1322l.£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.
£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure
56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.
£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.
4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.
£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.1,360,000Miscellaneous
1,360,000Miscellaneous1,550,000Post Office
1,550,000Post Office4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed
4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed7,400,000Stamps
7,400,000Stamps37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion
37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year
£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year
£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.
£.714,579Surplus for Parliament to deal with as they may think fit.56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure
56,328,421Deduct the Expenditure£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.
£.57,043,000The whole Receipts of the year.4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.
4,320,000Payment from the Trustees of Half-pay and Pensions.£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.
£.52,723,000The total income from these sources.1,360,000Miscellaneous
1,360,000Miscellaneous1,550,000Post Office
1,550,000Post Office4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed
4,800,000Taxes (including the Assessed7,400,000Stamps
7,400,000Stamps37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion
37,446,000Customs and Excise; which I take together on account of the transfer to the Customs of a large proportion of the duties formerly collected by the Excise; and the impossibility of separating the items without great confusion£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year
£. 167,000A small item, being the surplus of last year beyond the demand of the Sinking fund, which I consider myself entitled to make available towards the expenditure of the present year1321£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year
£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge
£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge£.18,711,000Annual Votes,
£.18,711,000Annual Votes,£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.
£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.2,225,000Miscellaneous
2,225,000Miscellaneous1,754,000Ordnance
1,754,000Ordnance6,135,000Navy
6,135,000Navy7,747,000Army
7,747,000Army£
£
£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year
£.56,328,421The whole expenditure of the year£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge
£.37,617,421Add the Permanent Charge£.18,711,000Annual Votes,
£.18,711,000Annual Votes,£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.
£850,000Interest of Exchequer Bills.2,225,000Miscellaneous
2,225,000Miscellaneous1,754,000Ordnance
1,754,000Ordnance6,135,000Navy
6,135,000Navy7,747,000Army
7,747,000Army£
££.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund
£.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund5,585,235Sinking Fund
5,585,235Sinking Fund2,800,000Half-pay Annuity
2,800,000Half-pay Annuity2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote
2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills
50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept
27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept£
£
£.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund
£.37,617,421Permanent charge on Consol Fund5,585,235Sinking Fund
5,585,235Sinking Fund2,800,000Half-pay Annuity
2,800,000Half-pay Annuity2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote
2,065,000Civil List, and Pensions of a permanent nature, charged on the Consolidated Fund, and not the subject of an annual vote50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills
50,000Interest of Exchequer (deficiency) Bills27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept
27,117,186Interest and Management of the Public Dept£
£13201319And bloody treason flourished over us:"Then you, and I, and all of us fell down,"Oh what a fall was there, my countrymen!1318l.l.l.,l.l.1317l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,131613151314l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,1313l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.viz.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.1312l.l.l.l.1311l.l.l.£.156,838,000Total
£.156,838,000Total52,259,000…1825
52,259,000…182552,562,000…1824
52,562,000…1824£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 1823
£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 1823
£.156,838,000Total
£.156,838,000Total52,259,000…1825
52,259,000…182552,562,000…1824
52,562,000…1824£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 1823
£.52,017,000 wasThe actual receipt for 18231310£.155,440,000Total
£.155,440,000Total51,975,000…1825
51,975,000…182551,265,000…1824
51,265,000…1824£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823
£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823
£.155,440,000Total
£.155,440,000Total51,975,000…1825
51,975,000…182551,265,000…1824
51,265,000…1824£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823
£.52,200,000 wasThe estimated revenue for 1823l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.1309130813071306***The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l,1335l.; hoped the House would not be led away by the statements of the right hon. gentleman, some of which he considered to be complete fallacies, and should, he thought, be able to prove them, such, to the satisfaction of the House. The first and the greatest fallacy the right hon. gentleman had been guilty of, was his assumption with respect to the diminution of the charge of the public debt. He had gone back to 1816, and compared the revenue of that year with that of 1825; but with regard to the comparison of the capital of the debt, he had gone no further back than 1823. In that the error Consisted, and the only reason the right hon. gentleman could have for the deceit was, that in 1822, an additional charge was put on the management of the debt to the amount of 2,800,000l.l,1335l.;Mr. Maberly
 said, that the calculation to which the hon. member alluded was made last year, before the reduction of taxes took place, and of course the surplus was less by the amount of the taxes reduced.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1336 said, that that of course would alter his argument, as to that point. Still, however, he must repeat his regret, that the right hon. gentleman had not made his calculation on the produce of the revenue up to the present period; for if it should turn out that there was a great falling off in the revenue in the month of February, the hon. member could hardly be said to have made a fair calculation. He was, happy, however, to see in the right hon. gentleman a disposition to take away any part of the unfunded debt. He regretted that it had not been done last year. The right hon. gentleman had entirely mistaken what had fallen from him upon a former occasion. He never meant to say that he could have funded Exchequer-bills, and reduce the 5 or 4 per cents at the same time. But he might have done so in subsequent years. He might have done so with great advantage to the public when the 3 per cents were between 90 and 100. He must again press upon the right hon. gentleman the dangerous nature of such securities as Exchequer-bills — he meant that class of them for which immediate payment might be required, as for a promissory note. He approved of the plan of funding nine or ten millions of Exchequer-bills, and of applying the Sinking-
1336Mr. Maberly
l.l.l.l.l.1340 rose to express his concurrence m the sentiments of his right hon. friend who had just sat down. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more fair or more manly than the Candour of the chancellor of the Exchequer, in the speech which he had just made; and he was sure it would prove highly satisfactory to the country. Every financial statement must proceed upon some estimate; and he must be a bold man who would pretend to foretel what the revenue for the present year would be. Even the chancellor of the Exchequer, with the great judgment and acuteness which he possessed, could not undertake to say whether there would be one million or two millions deficiency in the revenue for this year. Where there were bubble fortunes, there must be a bubble revenue. The increase of trade proceeded from a momentary excitement. The general failures caused a suspension of those luxuries which had created the increase of revenue; and the revenue
l.l.l.l.l.1340Mr. Baring
l.1341l;l.l.l.l. begged to explain himself upon two points. The first point was with reference to the revenue of the year. The hon. gentleman had taken him to task for admitting into the calculation for the year 400,000l.1341l;l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ss.s. did not wish to protract the debate, but he wished to make one observation with respect to the duty on tobacco. He thought the reduction of duty from 4ss.s.Mr. Calcraft
 expressed his surprise that the chancellor of the Exchequer should have attacked the Scotch people for having objected to the removal of the Scottish revenue board to London, when, in point of fact, the great body of the people of Scotland were in favour of that measure.Captain Gordon
 said, he had not blamed the Scottish people; on the contrary, he had eulogized them; and had only expressed his surprise that any man could be found in that country to oppose or find fault with the measure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could not help expressing his surprise at the attempt about to be made to alter the currency of Scotland. He hoped that those members who were more immediately interested in the welfare of that country would make a stand, and resist the plan proposed by ministers for altering the Scottish banking system. He was decidedly of opinion that any alteration would be injurious; and so long as he could get one member to support him, he should oppose it; and he hoped ultimately the measure would be abandoned. He hoped the members from Scotland would imitate the gentlemen of the sister kingdom, and stick together upon this occasion.Sir C. Forbes
1342 said, he could not help noticing what had fallen from the hon. baronet. The House had passed a bill which was to regulate the currency of England, and, he would ask, what right had Scotland to be exempted from a similar regulation? He was unable to comprehend why a measure highly expedient for England should not apply with equal advantage to Scotland. The hon. member for Midhurst had exclaimed against the country bankers of England; but he wished the House to notice the
1342Mr. Ellice
l asked, what was to be done with the surplus of 120,000lMr. Bright
13391338l.l.l.;l.l,l.;l.;1337l,;l.l.;l.; said, that the eloquence of the right hon. gentleman opposite- had entirely led the House away from those points to which its attention ought to have been called, and on which it should have got some more satisfactory explanation than they had heard that night. He was not then going to follow the right hon. gentleman through all his arguments, but he must object to the mode in which he had made his calculations, and the periods between which and the present he had made comparisons as to consumption and as to revenue. However, he would not have risen now but for the allusions made to his statement on a former evening. That statement was, that though so much had been talked of about the reduction of taxes, more money had been taken from: the pockets of the people within the last three years than had been within the preceding years. The moment he made the assertion, it was positively contradicted by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and by the chancellor of the Exchequer. He would, however, repeat his assertion, and he would prove it to demonstration by the returns before the House. He would not follow the right hon. gentleman back to 1816, and he did not see what right he had to go to that year; but he would take the returns of revenue of the years 1817, 1818, and 1819, and compare them with those of the last three years, and it would be seen that in the latter more money was taken out of the pockets of the people than in the former. By those returns it appeared that the amount of revenue was, in 1817, 51,183,00013391338l.l.l.;l.l,l.;l.;1337l,;l.l.;l.;Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.1343l., said, that when on a former night his right hon. friend had spoken of the duty on soap, he had intimated that the arrangement relative to it was this—that all who used it in the silk manufacture, should enjoy the same advantages as those engaged in the woollen manufacture; namely, that of a drawback of the duty. On the subject of dye-drugs, it could scarcely be forgotten that there had been imposed upon them no more than a nominal duty. The surplus of 120,000l.l.l.l.1343l.,Mr. Huskisson
 said, he felt himself obliged to express an opinion quite different from that which his hon. friend entertained with respect to the conduct of ministers. He thought the country was greatly indebted to the chancellor of the Exchequer, and the President of the Board of Trade, for the measures which they had adopted since they had been in office. They had effected considerable reduction of taxation, and placed matters in such a train, that a progressive reduction must take place; which would, he believed* and particularly in the case of Ireland, insure an increased revenue. The measures which ministers had adopted for reforming the mode of Collecting the revenue in Ireland would work a great moral improvement in the habits of the people. He trusted that they would carry their reforms still further. The revenue jurisdiction of Ireland should be entirely abolished. In the post-office department the most scandalous abuses prevailed. Might not this be incorporated with the English department? He Ventured to throw out the suggestion, and trusted it would obtain attention.Sir J. Newport
 said, he did not believe that the real feeling of the people of Scotland was opposed to the alteration in the currency of Scotland. On the contrary, he had reason to believe that the opposition came from persons interested in keeping up the present system. He was happy to find the whole of the press in Scotland advocating the cause of truth, and arguing in favour of the intended alteration, and acquainted as he was with the character of his countrymen, he could not refrain from expressing his surprise at the unblushing effrontery with which it was stated that the paper currency was universally believed to be intimately connected with the interests of Scotland.Mr. Abercromby
 believed that the Scotch nation were, from habit, so attached to the paper system, that they would refuse gold, if it was offered to them in lieu of it; but still he thought that the system ought to be altered, as a period of panic and pressure might arise in Scotland, when the mischief of such a currency would entail ruin upon that country.Mr. Maberly
1360 said, he should be sorry to have a notion go abroad that the committee was to be appointed to inquire into
1360Mr. Baring
 said, it had never been his intention to submit to the House any question as to the solvency of the banks in Scotland. He was assured that they were all solvent; and if they were not, an inquiry of that nature would be as unprofitable as it would be ungracious. His only object was, to ascertain whether it would be politic to leave the small notes in circulation in Scotland, when they were abolished in England; and that he considered to be a very proper question for investigation by a committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1364l.l.l.l.1363l.s.1362l.l.1361l.l. said, he rose for the purpose of bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, for a select committee "to inquire into the expediency of encouraging Emigration from the United Kingdom." It would not be necessary for him to enter at length into the subject. The House would recollect, that, in the year 1823, a sum of 50,0001364l.l.l.l.1363l.s.1362l.l.1361l.l.Mr. Wilmot Horton
1366 said, that as he understood it, the principle of the bill was, that upon complaint made to the House, a select committee should be appointed to try the issue, and that their decision should be absolute and final. To this there was this obvious objection—that the decision of no committee could be binding upon the House. The inquisitorial powers of the House might be delegated; but not the judicial. A body might be appointed to bring in a true verdict as to fact; but the question of corruption was a question of inference. All that a committee could do, was to report to the House; and the House could then do what they pleased upon it—either proceed further, or let it sleep. The bill also gave power to present petitions of complaint within six years from the period. This he thought too long. He also objected that there was no penalty or punishment assigned to an unfounded charge. Experience ought to show them the necessity of some such thing. In 1788, it was found necessary to enact, that any person presenting a frivolous petition should pay the whole costs. Now, this bill enacted, that the public should pay the costs of the whole inquiry. This would give rise to a thousand evils, of which they had at present no idea. It would, beyond question, lead not only to Vexatious but to malicious charges; and moreover, for the bringing of such charges, no penalty was declared. To the system proposed for choosing the committee of inquiry, too, he objected. The provision as to the appointment of the nominee was perfectly unfair. The nomineeship was perhaps the worst part of the existing system. Each party, in a petition of the kind in question, now named tome one person upon the committee in whose discretion he thought he could confide: and that nominee invariably became a counsel in the case rather than a judge. But the noble lord's bill gave the accuser the power of appointing such a nominee, and withheld it from the defendant—an alteration which made that course partial and unjust, which was objectionable enough already. The House had already possessed powers amply sufficient to correct bribery whenever a case of the kind was fairly made out. He never knew an instance in which the House had failed to deal severely with those against whom
1366Mr. Wynn
1369l.l.1368 said, that an intelligence had gone abroad on this, as well as on other subjects, which rendered it impossible that the law should be continued in its present state. He saw no great force in the observations of an hon. gentleman,
1369l.l.1368Mr. Hobhouse
 was perfectly convinced that some sort of reform in parliament, for which the people had been calling for the last twenty years, ought to be introduced. The people looked to that House for such a reform; and, if the House did not reform itself from within, it would ultimately be reformed from without. In saying this, he was making use of an old expression; but such was, in his opinion, the feeling which pervaded the people.Mr. F. Palmer
 said, he had ever supported the principle of disfranchising whenever abuse could be proved; but he was in doubt whether the present bill was calculated to remove or to promote the evils which it proposed to remedy.Mr. Wynn
 reminded the House, that the proof of a single act of corruption, in an individual elector, vitiated the return of the candidate whom he had supported. Would hon. members say, that the corruption of an individual should be held as the act of all his fellow electors, and sufficient to disfranchise the entire borough?Colonel Davies
1371 congratulated himself on having been one of the minority of forty-seven who voted against flogging the other evening. He felt the more justified in that sentiment, by the recollection that his hon. colleague (sir F. Burdett) when he first introduced the subject to the House, was one in a minority of six at the utmost. Last year the minority was considerable, and this year more so. After the holidays, he proposed to move for returns for two different periods, which would show the progress which this subject had made in the public mind. It was highly satisfactory to know the opinion entertained of it by the commander-in-chief and several of the first generals of the army. But if, according to the opinion inculcated by those high military authorities, and enforced by their practice, the discipline of the army had notoriously improved by the relaxation of that inhuman mode of punishment, how could gallant officers assure the House that it was necessary that the power of inflicting it should remain with the officers of the army? The House must feel great deference for the opinion of practical men, but could not listen to them when they proposed to the House to act upon what they considered to be a safe understanding as distinguished from feeling. The fact was, that the House would be safer
1371Mr. Hobhouse
 said, be should be glad to have the real opinion of the people of Scotland, on this subject. When he was in that country, he believed they had no option; for he had never seen any gold at all. If the petitions spoke the sense of the people of Scotland, he was very much mistaken. He was rather inclined to attribute them to persons who were interested in keeping up the present state of things.Colonel Johnson
 presented a petition from Lanark. He said, he thought it singular, after the government had so often lauded the system of banking in Scotland, and held it up for the imitation of the English bankers, that they should propose to effect a total alteration in it.Lord A. Hamilton
1370 said, that the statements which had been made that night, proved that some measure of the kind was absolutely called for. The general election was fast approaching, and no doubt could be entertained that bribery and corruption were now going on. This rendered it the more necessary to make a speedy alteration in the law. It was notorious, that the returns to that House were, in many instances, made in virtue of money, and nothing else. He did not mean to make any remark on what had fallen from the hon. member for Hertford, or the lion, member for Devizes, relative to the Bank; but it was a remarkable circumstance, that when the hon. member for Penrhyn (Mr. Grenfell) had apprised his constituents, that he would decline making any advances to that borough, if likely to be attended with pecuniary expense, a person connected with the Bank immediately went down to form a connexion with that place, where he was not at all known; and it certainly was doubtful, whether some of the newly-issued Bank of England notes would not find their way to Penrhyn in the course of the next election. While such notorious practices were carrying on, was it not the duty of the House to take steps to check them? He had himself known instances in which the electors, when the member had been in the House for fourteen days without any petition being presented against his return, had come forward and said, "the fourteen days are now over, and we call upon you to pay us for returning you." Such disgraceful conduct ought to be put an end to. He did not know that his bill would have the complete effect, but he hoped that it might be so modeled as to answer the purposes for which he intended it. The high tone of feeling in the country on this subject, and the improved state
1370Lord J. Russell
 having moved the second reading of this bill,Lord John Russell
 believed it would appear that the Scotch banks, the sound principle of which had been so much vaunted, had very materially tended to produce the mischiefs that were now felt so generally in Scotland.Mr. Ellice
 had no objection to the appointment of a committee on the subject. He was quite satisfied that the petition expressed the general opinion throughout Scotland, and that there had never been a question on which that country had been so unanimous.Mr. Home Drummond
 thought that nothing was more injurious than keeping a country in the state of uneasiness and uncertainty which discussions of this nature must necessarily create. If he might venture to offer his advice to the chancellor of the Exchequer, it would be to leave Scotland in the state in which it now was, until he had seen how the proposed alterations of system had worked in England, where, he conceived, the right hon. gentleman had already full enough on his hands, without extending the surface of his operations, and thereby greatly increasing his own embarrassments.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 thought the provisions of this bill so extremely objectionable that if any member would divide the House, he would vote against the second reading. Its principle went to keep alive, in all the boroughs, a state of never-ceasing dissention, and to involve the House in litigations without end.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 denied that the House had, under the existing law, sufficient power to correct the evil. The right hon. gentleman had not denied that corrupt practices existed; and it was well known, that in some boroughs those practices were carried to an enormous extent. Surely such a system should be done away with.Mr. Lockhart
 defended the Bank of England from having any knowledge of the transaction to which the hon. member had alluded.Mr. Pearse
 was enabled to state, from his knowledge of the several banks of Scotland, that they enjoyed the highest credit throughout that country.Mr. J. Smith
 was of opinion, that, in point of principle, no fair objection could be raised against the present measure, because they all knew perfectly well, that election committees were in the habit, under particular circumstances, of making special reports, the matter contained in which gave rise to ulterior proceedings. He could by no means go along with the right hon. gentleman in his statement, that the law, in its present state, was sufficient to put an end to those corrupt and disgraceful practices which were known to be carried on in elections. The House ought to be allowed a more extended period than was now granted, for hearing complaints on the subject of bribery and corruption. The call for reform should not be confined to those only who were within parliament; it ought to reach those who were without the walls of that House. Reform was as much required amongst the electors as amongst the elected; and if the noble lord could devise a plan, by which notorious and scandalous practices of the sort to which his bill referred could be put an end to, a most beneficial object would be gained. In some of the boroughs those practices were notorious. If the provisions of the present measure were hung over them in terrorem, it would produce a very good effect. He trusted, therefore, that the bill would be suffered to go into a committee, and that gentlemen would lend their cordial endeavours to render its provisions effectual.Mr. Warre
 observed, that the feeling of the country, which had been so pointedly referred to in the discussion of the question just now disposed of, was, without question, diametrically opposed to the system of military flogging. He hoped the time would soon arrive, when Englishmen would no longer be the only European subjects whom it was thought necessary to goad to the completion of their duty with the whip. Why should it be presumed that British soldiers would fail in that sense of honour which animated all other troops? The reason was to be found in the very nature of the punishment. They brutalized men by their discipline, and then complained that the men acted as brutes. He protested against the continuance of the system.Mr. Hume
l.l.,l. said, he had no objection to the inquiry; for he felt quite satisfied that when the subject was considered by a committee, they would have a report disapproving of the expenditure of the money of the country for such an object. It never could answer for them to incur the expense of 100l.l.,l.Mr. Hume
 said, he happened to be on a committee, where it was proved that new Bank notes came down to the election in consecutive numbers, and some of them were traced to the voters.Mr. N. Calvert
1367 observed, that every means ought to be taken to put down bribery at elections. The right of voting ought to be considered as a trust, and not treated as if it were a properly; and the
1367Mr. N. Calvert
1359 thought the learned gentleman's statement proved him to be little acquainted with the present condition of his countrymen. His habits necessarily withdrew him from Scotland; and he appeared to have formed the opinions he had just now expressed from the press, which, whatever might be its other merits, was not an unquestionable authority on this subject. It was most natural that the great majority of the Scotch should be, as they were, averse to the alteration of a system under which their country had risen, in the course of a hun-
1359Mr. W. Dundas
l.l. thought that the evil which this bill was intended to repress required correction. Some years ago he had had a negotiation for one of those open boroughs, as they were called; but when he came to inquire into the business, he found that the former member had promised 10l.l.Mr. W. Smith
 observed first, upon the difficulty of complying with the motion; and, Secondly, upon its irrelevancy, as all the abuses (if any existed) were provided against by act of parliament. If the commissioners were guilty of any abuse, they were liable to be disqualified, upon complaint made to the Chancellor. The law was riot, therefore, defective, and there appeared to him be necessity for the returns.The Solicitor General
l.l. reprobated the wanton accumulation of expense which these illegal indulgences of the commissioners occasioned. He held in his hand the bill of costs of a bankrupt commission, in which there were dinner bills to the amount of 47l.l.Mr. Abercromby
 thought the gallant member should confine the return to the year which had elapsed since the passing of the act alluded to. The abuses complained of were a gross violation of the law, and he did not know why proceedings should not be instituted against the persons guilty of them.Mr. S. Bourne
 said that, according to the terms of the motion, the parties were bound to make a return, even of the expenses which they paid out of their own pockets. Now, it would be better to direct prosecutions to be instituted against the persons guilty of such offences, than to call upon the whole body to make admissions which would expose them to prosecutions.Mr. Wynn
l. said, it was no answer that there existed a law on the subject, if that law was not Carried into effect. Two years ago a return was laid on the table, by which it appeared that 224,000l.Mr. Hume
 said, if the gallant member would confine himself to the date when the law began to operate, he would not object to it.Mr. Bankes
 contended, that the law as it stood was sufficiently remedial. It should not be forgotten that the commissioners acted under an oath, and that if they winked at abuses, they would be guilty of perjury.Mr. W. J. Bankes
 said, he had no objection to Confine the return to the time when the act came into operation last year.Sir R. Wilson
 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. It was one of considerable importance to the trading world, as being a feature in the heavy list of charges to which the estate of a bankrupt was liable in transitu to his creditors. The tavern expenses incurred by commissioners of bankrupt in working commissions in the country were enormous and illegal. It was desirable that so wanton an expense should be put a stop to. The best means of judging of the extent to which this abuse had been carried, was by ascertaining the amount of expenses incurred within the last three years. This might be attended with difficulty, but it was not impracticable. There Was an officer called the secretary of bankrupts, upon whom the House might call for all the information in his power, and he again might be required to address circulars to all the solicitors for country commissions within the last three years, to deduct from the mass of items the particular expense of each commission, and the whole might be arranged by the secretary and presented to this House. He concluded by moving, "That there be laid before the House an account of all Tavern Expenses incurred by commissioners of bankrupts under commissions executed in the country for the last three years."Sir Robert Wilson
13761375 rose to bring forward his motion, respecting the appointment of writers in the service of the East India Company. By the act 53 Geo. 3rd, c. 155, no person could be appointed a writer, who had not passed four terms at the East India college. Since the establishment of that college, from the extension of the company's territories, the necessity of appointing an additional number of Zillah officer's in Bengal, and other causes, there had been a deficiency of qualified persons. It was found also,
13761375Mr. Wynn
, adverting to the practice in India relative to Cadets, said that it was usual to make regular reports of their advancement in a knowledge of the language; and adverted particularly to the case of one individual, who was so inattentive to the study of the Hindostanee, that he (captain B.) was directed to inform him, in the presence of the other young men, that the commander-in-chief would not appoint him, if he did not make himself master of the language. The consequence was, that the next day he sent for a Moonshee, began to study, and in a short time was as perfect in the language as any of his fellow cadets.Captain Bradshaw
13791378 trusted that his right hon. friend would only make this a temporary measure. The whole of the complaints-made against Haileybury College tested on vague report. That institution had been opposed by those who obstinately adhered to the former system, merely on account of its having long prevailed, and who were adverse to any im-
13791378Mr. C. Grant
l.13811380 said, that after the very ample discussion which the subject of the Small-note Currency had recently, undergone, and after the decided manner in which the House hart expressed its opinion on the general principle of the policy of making the basis of our currency more practically metallic
l.13811380The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.1383 said, that parliament ought to show some deference for the petitions which were coming up from all parts of Scotland, in opposition to the proposed alteration of their currency. During the whole period of the Scotch banking system nothing had occurred to warrant the proposed interference in their concerns. The state of things which had arisen in England, and called for a change, sprung from the late panic, occasioned in part by the insolvency
l.1383Mr. Keith Douglas
1384 contended, that no good could arise from the appointment of a committee. The very circumstance of inquiry led to the presumption that there was something unsound in the Scotch System of banking. But, that that was not the case, he had the authority of the first lord of the Treasury and of the chancellor of the Exchequer, who now proposed the inquiry. They said in their communications with the Bank—"We have a further proof of the truth of what has been advanced, in the experience of Scotland, which escaped all the convulsions which have occurred in the money-market of England for the last thirty-five years, though Scotland, for the whole of that time, has had a circulation of one-pound notes, and the small pecuniary transactions of that part of the United Kingdom have been carried on exclu-
1384Captain Gordon
l.13871386 said, he had not, on the one hand, been insensible to
l.13871386Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 considered that there was no necessity for inquiry with regard to Scotland. If the hon. baronet would change his sentiment, and vote with him, he would divide the House on the question. If an inquiry must be instituted, let it embrace the whole kingdom.Mr. Alderman Wood
l.l.l.l.d.s.s.1390 did not rise to oppose the motion, as he thought it fair that the House should be in possession of the information asked for. The hon. member, however, was in error, if he supposed that the dean and chapter of Westminster had any rights different from those of other deans and chapters. The House he believed, had no power to compel them to admit strangers to the abbey. He was also wrong in supposing that the fees for the admission of visitors were of recent origin. They had existed from very early periods, and instances might be found in the Record-office, of their being granted by patent; though, since the Restoration they had been granted during pleasure. In 1613, a patent was granted, which he had seen, to sir E. Phipps, sir R. Miller, and others, to collect the fees for shewing the monuments to visitors. At present the fees were divided among the minor canons and the choir. The amount of the income of the minor canons, who were obliged to attend about four months in the year, was about one hundred pounds per annum, and of this they drew about seventy pounds from the fees. The admission fee had been diminished, and was not at present more than was necessary to protect the monuments. The abbey was now opened three times a day to every body when divine service was performed; it was opened without any charge, at all seasonable times, to artists; and the admission fee had been
l.l.l.l.d.s.s.1390Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that when he was at Westminster school, Poets' corner and the aisle of the abbey, the only portion of the abbey which was viewed with interest, except by a person who might come to gaze about London for a few days, were open to the public. He thought the preferable mode would be, to have the abbey open, as it formerly was, to the public, and to appoint a guardian, whose duty it would be, to preserve the monuments from injury.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that if the rights contended for by the dean and chapter were pushed to their extent, they might as well shut up the abbey against the entrance of persons for the purpose of divine worship, contrary to the privilege which prevailed in every catholic country.Mr. Baring
 said, that he knew an instance in which a member of that House, wearied with a dull committee, had gone to the Abbey and heard a good sermon, for which he paid nothing; but after it was over, he was asked for money to see the monuments. This, however, he refused, and there was no power to enforce it.Mr. Alderman Wood
 objected to the bill, as being too general and indefinite in its enactments.The Solicitor-General
 said, he could not support the present bill, and thought he had reason to complain of the hon. member far having deserted his post the other evening when the flogging of men was under discussion. He trusted that when that question should next be agitated, the hon. member would favour the House with his attendance, and that he would not, in the mean time, expend all his sympathy upon dogs and cats, but reserve some portion of it for his own species.Mr. Alderman Wood
 considered the motion unnecessary and uncalled for. The system as it existed was quite satisfactory. The hon. member for Montrose had alluded to several publications on the subject, but he considered it below the dignity of the House to spend half hours and hours in discussing the merits of anonymous publications, whether signed by Malachi Malagrowther, or any other fictitious name. He had read none of them, and therefore could not be swayed by any thing the authors advanced. He would not, however, vote against the motion. He approved so highly of the plain, downright, John Bull statements of the chancellor of the Exchequer on most occasions, that he would not now oppose him, though he disagreed with him as to the necessity of the measure.Sir C. Forbes
 was glad the chancellor of the Exchequer had so candidly admitted the existence of the feeling on this subject, which, be it right or wrong, most certainly did prevail in Scotland, and which, notwithstanding what had been said to the contrary, was so universal, and so strong among persons of all opinions on other subjects, that he did not think he could have been persuaded, in opposition to that feeling, to vote for any measure at present to alter the system of currency now established in Scotland, even if his understanding had been convinced of the propriety of the change; while it is admitted on all hands, that no paramount necessity calls for any immediate interference. To a committee of inquiry, however, he could have no objection, which could tend only to bring out the truth; and he was sure the Scotch banks had no reason to shrink from any investigation of their system. This was not a fit time to enter into details—that would be the business of the committee. But he could not allow this opportunity to pass, without observing, that he did not join in the complaints of which, of late, so much had been heard, as to the grievances of Scotland. He was much more inclined to boast of the advantages she enjoys. He desired for himself, and he believed he might say on the part of every Scotch member of that House, to disclaim all feelings of jealousy of English influence or English interference, [hear, hear]. He had never entertained such a feeling at any time, and never felt less inclined to entertain it, than at present. If we consider what Scotland was before the Union, distracted and impoverished by civil broils and dissensions, and borne down by oppression of every form and degree, and trace its history onwards to the present time, instead of a catalogue of grievances arising from her connection with England, we find a long catalogue of benefits and blessings, to which no Scotchman, who allows himself to think coolly on the subject, can look back with any other feelings than those of unmingled gratitude and respect for the wisdom and the bounty of the British parliament.Mr. Home Drummond
1382 said, though he felt that it was the desire of the House not to enter into any general discussion of the subject at that time, yet he could not sit there and hear the proposal for a committee made, without expressing his opinion of the great inconvenience which the appointment of these committees must always produce, from the general
1382Mr. Hudson Gurney
 approved of the principle of the bill, which had received the sanction of the legislature already, under the hon. member's auspices; but objected to any such extension of its principle as was intended by the present measure.Mr. Lockhart
, although he had been a decided supporter of the other measures of the hon. member for Galway, could not give his vote for the present bill. He thought that as much had been done as the subject required, and that the hon. member ought to be satisfied without pressing other bills, for the protection of animals, on the consideration of parliament.Mr. Warre
1389l. rose, to make a motion to the House relative to the money taken by the dean and chapter of Westminster from the public, for admission to view the Monuments in Westminster abbey. He was induced to make the motion, in consequence of an item in the estimates, for a sum of money to the dean and chapter for cleaning those monuments. He understood, the annual revenue of that establishment amounted to 20,0001389l.Mr. Hume
1377 said, that what had been stated by the right hon. gentleman cast, in his opinion, a strong reflection on the East-India company's institution at Hailey-bury. He thought that the whole of the system on which that institution was founded was exceedingly injurious. The young men were shut out from all society, and had no opportunity of acquiring the least knowledge of the world. Such a system was calculated to destroy the native character of Englishmen. The speech which lord Grenville delivered in another place, against the formation of this college, did him the greatest honour. The arguments adduced by that noble lord were conclusive against the system; and experience had amply proved, that the noble lord's view of the subject was correct. He clearly showed what would be the result of such a system. Year after year disturbances had taken place in that college, and the young men acquired any thing but that high tone of honour, principle, and public spirit, which they ought to imbibe, to fit them for the high situations which they were destined to fill. He had often deplored the situation in which India was placed, in consequence of the formation of such an establishment. Young men were sent out to act in the most important capacities, without any general knowledge of the world. Individuals were cooped up in that secluded monastery, as he might call it, where they could acquire no knowledge of active life. Young men of twenty-two years of age, were raised to the rank of judges in the Zilla courts; many of which had jurisdiction over a space larger than Yorkshire. For five successive years, attempts had been made, in the court of proprietors, to alter the system which prevailed as to the education of writers; but every attempt had failed. He was glad therefore that government had at last taken up the subject. He hoped, however, that the right hon. gentleman would select some proper mode of examination for persons going out to India. He wished persons
1377Mr. Hume
 believed that Haileybury college had fully completed its functions by furnishing India with a supply of well-educated young men for the civil and military services. At the time of establishing the college, there was a great deficiency of the proper means of education. Never did any functionaries acquire more honour and credit than the young men sent out from the college.Dr. Phillimore
 having moved, that the bill be read a second time,Mr. R. Martin
 defended the principle of the bill, and maintained the general accuracy of the statements he had made on a former occasion, as to the instances of cruelty practised on several animals, and what he had said of the cruelty practised in Oxfordshire towards a bull. It was true that the tongue had been torn out of the animal while alive; but it was not sent round on a plate, but on a piece of paper. The other cases of cruelty he had mentioned were also substantially correct. The case of the flaying of a dog alive was told him by a highly respectable magistrate. He thought he should have great reason to complain of the attorney-general, if he opposed the present bill; for it was in substance a copy of one which, on a former occasion, bad been corrected and approved of by that learned gentleman. His object was, to place that faithful animal, the dog, on the same footing of protection with other domestic animals.Mr. R. Martin
 agreed, that where the system was admitted to be pure, it was unnecessary to institute an inquiry. It was not usual to call a man to the bar of the House for the purpose of inquiring into his good conduct. The argument of good conduct was the worst that could be made in support of the motion. The necessity of inquiry implied that something wrong was apprehended. Much injury had already been done to the English banks by the measures of the government; and the inquiry might inflict the same on the Scotch. It was, if he might use so homely an illustration, tantamount to giving a dog a bad name.Mr. T. Wilson
1385 thought, that government deserved thanks for its conduct on this occasion. He was astonished at the objections brought forward by some horn members to a committee of inquiry. That inquiry was not, whether the banking establishments in Scotland were in a solvent condition or conducted on sound principles, but whether the withdrawal of the one-pound notes would be hurtful to its interests. The members from the northern part of the empire thought that no evil could result from circulating them; but would others take their mere words for the fact? He looked with attachment to a system which had prevailed for upwards of a hundred years, and under which his
1385Mr. W. Dundas
 did not mean to charge the hon. member for Galway with venal motives; but he really thought the only person likely to be benefited by the reward to informers, was the hon. gentleman himself. He would oppose the bill, unless he could see that they were about to legislate upon some fixed principle, rather than upon isolated instances.Mr. George Lamb
 said, it was a mistake to suppose, that the dean and chapter had received money for permission to erect the public monuments, although they occupied a considerable space in the abbey, for which individuals would pay.Mr. Peel
 thought, that as the public had paid considerable sums to the dean and chapter for permission to erect those monuments, upon which a large sum of public money had been expended, they ought to be open for inspection.Mr. W. Smith
 opposed the bill, and moved, that it be read a second time this day six months.Mr. Trant
 said, he did not think so highly of the education in this college. His experience of the effects of it in India led him to prefer the education at the Universities.Mr. Trant
 said, that a cadet could obtain a more perfect knowledge of the native language by a six months' residence in India, than he could by two years' study in this country. He thought upon the whole, that if individuals were allowed to receive their education at such places as their parents or friends thought best, the company would have the best guarantee that their servants would be educated and effective men. He hoped, therefore, that the right hon. gentleman would make his alteration permanent.Sir T. Baring
l.1408l.l.1407l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1406l.l.1405l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1404 said, he would endeavour to follow the hon. member, not, indeed, through all the items which he had gone into with such laborious accuracy, but through the prominent objections which he had made to the estimates before the House. He would confess that the hon. member had made his different objections with perfect candour and fairness, and he would meet him in a similar spirit. He must also confess, that he felt no little surprise that the hon. member should be so entirely dissatisfied with the present consular system; for it might be considered as a child of his own, an offspring of his particular fancy. When he (Mr. Canning) came last into office, he found that the opinion of the House had been taken upon the subject of the system to be pursued, in relation to our ministers abroad. Whether the opinion had been expressed in a formal vote, or given in a way which only conveyed the sense of the House, he was not quite sure, but he found that he had no discretion to exercise, for it had been determined, that the whole system relative to our consuls should be done away, and that they should be put upon a totally different footing. The new principle was, that fees should be entirely abolished, and that salaries should be substituted, to the extent of affording a remuneration for their loss. He begged leave to state, that his own individual opinion did not concur in this arrangement. But. he found the point already settled, and his business was only to carry it into execution. Had the point been left to his judgment, or could his opinions have had any influence upon the question, he should have expressed an opinion that there were many cases in which it would be better to remunerate for services by fees, than by salary. But government had only to follow a prescribed principle; namely, that all private charges were abolished, and remuneratory salaries were to be granted in their stead. With respect to settling this arrangement, he had attended to the subject himself; and of all the difficult jobs he had ever undertaken this was the most difficult. He had to hear the private cases of individuals, and, what was most painful, he had to settle how much this man's income had been abridged, how much the other man had sacrificed and these points ascertained,
l.1408l.l.1407l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1406l.l.1405l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1404Mr. Secretary Canning
l. objected to the principle upon which government now appointed consuls, prohibiting them from engaging in trade, and allowing them fixed salaries for discharging the specific duties assigned to them. He preferred the old system of such appointments, whereby the principal merchant of a trading port, such as Amsterdam, was the consul. Such an individual was much better qualified to sustain the necessary state and hospitality of a consul, not a merchant, and with a salary of perhaps 600l.Mr. Baring
l.l.1410l. then rose to move the Colonial Civil Estimates. He trusted that there were none of them which could meet with serious objection. It would be seen that a decrease had taken place of 16,000l.l.1410l.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 agreed that it would have been unwise to make the selection of consuls from amongst the mercantile body originally; but he thought that in future merchants might be better calculated than others to discharge the duties of consuls, especially when under the control of ambassadors.Mr. Ellice
 said, that at Rotterdam and one other place, our consuls were eminent merchants; because they bad been so previously to their being appointed, and it was not thought proper to extend the general principle which government had found themselves obliged to lay down, to those individuals. Before he sat down, he would inform the House, that our ambassador at Paris, lord Granville, actually expended at least double his salary out of his private fortune.Mr. Canning
1409 again adverted to the repairs of the ambassador's house at Paris, and said that the sum expended for that purpose was an instance of shameful extravagance. He understood that the hotel was fitted up in as splendid a style as any house in London. [Mr. Canning said, "Very well."] It was not very well, but very ill. He could see no end of the extravagance. He thought some of the young persons who were in the suite of the ambassadors, and were learning the science, might do the duty of consul-
1409Mr. Hume
l.1403l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1402l.l.l.l.l.1401l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. said, that the estimate for the present year was on the same extravagant scale as those for the preceding years. In his opinion, the rate of expense was unnecessarily large, nor was the country in a condition to bear so enormous a charge as that of half a million annually for the expenses of her and bassadors abroad. From the year 1818 to the present moment, the exorbitant charge for the pay and expenses of our diplomatic department had been progressively increasing. In 1824, there had been a vote for the service of our embassies to the amount of 320,178l.1403l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1402l.l.l.l.l.1401l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 expressed the high gratification which he had received from the statement just made by the lion, secretary. He was quite satisfied that, if the same prudent line of policy was persevered in for a few years, the country would be entirely relieved from the charge made for the civil establishment of these colonies. As long as this country consented to pay for them, it could not be expected that any diminution would take place. It was not consistent with human nature to expect that such would be the case. He considered the whole sum to be pure waste, and yet he saw no reason why the hand of retrenchment should not be applied to them in a gradual, but effectual manner.Mr. Hume
 expressed his satisfaction at the introduction of the bill. He hoped, however, that the discretionary power of the judges, in directing who were to be summoned on juries, would extend to the nomination upon juries of persons of half-caste, and of natives. In Ceylon, this practice had been introduced by sir Alexander Johnston, three years ago, and had been followed up since by the judges with the happiest effect. The natives who were summoned upon those juries were found to be as good as any other jurors. Besides, it served to raise them in their own opinion, by thus making them share in the rights and privileges of other British subjects. If a similar provision was introduced into the present bill, it would give the greatest satisfaction to the people of India.Mr. Hume
2 said, that the permission to serve upon juries was granted by the bill to all persons who were not disqualified by some legal offence from serving upon them. Ceylon did not fall within the superintendence of his office. He had understood, however, that the natives there had been permitted to serve on juries, and that the practice had been attended with the best effects. In some instances, where the natives in India had been called upon to attend on coroners' inquests, they had evinced great intelligence and sharpness; and it had, he understood, had the effect
2Mr. Wynn
 hoped that the operation of the bill would extend, not merely to the three presidencies, which would make it a benefit to three or four hundred thousand persons; but to the whole of British India, which would render it a blessing to sixty or seventy millions.Mr. Hume
109"Dr. Doyle.—Our objection applies to the authorised version. That we have no aversion to the reading of the Bible by the laity, is best proved by the many editions of the Book, under our express sanction, and to which is prefixed the Rescript of Pius VI. to Martini, in order to show that we, and the Head of our Church with us, exhort the faithful to read the Word of God. In addition to three editions by Coyne, one by Cross, and two by O'Reilly, we have procured a stereotype edition, of low price, to circulate among all. There is nothing said of us, more opposed to truth, than that we are averse to the circulation of the Word of God.""Dr. Murray proposed that the Holy Scriptures should be read only when the Roman Catholic children were taken apart for the purpose of receiving religious instruction, and he said there could be no possible objection then to reading the gospels of the week; no objection to a harmony of the gospel being used in the general education the children should receive in common."8"I understand that the Catholics have withdrawn children sometimes from the schools.—Has not the objection generally been, that by the introduction of the Scriptures into those schools, the Catholicity of the children might have been endangered? Certainly.—Does not your grace conceive that the individuals of any; church are not only authorised, but bound to object to any system which strikes at the root of their religion? Certainly.— Does not your grace think the exclusion of private judgment is to the full as much an article of the Roman Catholic faith as transubstantiation? I do.—Does your grace consider it possible that the Scriptures, without note and comment, can be received by individuals in schools, without admitting the right of private judgment? I think it certainty implies that.—Do you not conceive that the distribution of the Scriptures has a tendency in Ireland to increase the number of Protestants? Certainly.—Do you conceive that it has had that operation? I rather think it must have had that operation.—Conceding the sincerity of the Roman Catholic Ecclesiastics in their belief in the doctrines of their church, does not your grace conceive they are bound in duty to oppose any system that tends to undermine their church? Undoubtedly."76lll.5l.l.l.l.l.43 rose, in consequence of the notice he had given, for the purpose of moving a resolution, affirming the general principles upon which alone he conceived any national system of Education in Ireland was practicable, or could be effectual. He could assure the House, that he did not take this step with any hostile feeling towards the Irish government, as he was ready to admit, that many very useful and practical measures had been introduced during the present session, which deserved all possible praise. Still less was it his object to add to the jealousies and distrust which, on this question, necessarily existed in Ireland. Most anxious to obtain the acquiescence of the House in his resolution, he would endeavour to exclude from his argument all that was not indispensably necessary for his purpose, and all topics of an irritating nature. Hence he would not at present dwell upon the odious Charter-school principle, nor the atrocious cruelties which it had created
109"Dr. Doyle.—Our objection applies to the authorised version. That we have no aversion to the reading of the Bible by the laity, is best proved by the many editions of the Book, under our express sanction, and to which is prefixed the Rescript of Pius VI. to Martini, in order to show that we, and the Head of our Church with us, exhort the faithful to read the Word of God. In addition to three editions by Coyne, one by Cross, and two by O'Reilly, we have procured a stereotype edition, of low price, to circulate among all. There is nothing said of us, more opposed to truth, than that we are averse to the circulation of the Word of God.""Dr. Murray proposed that the Holy Scriptures should be read only when the Roman Catholic children were taken apart for the purpose of receiving religious instruction, and he said there could be no possible objection then to reading the gospels of the week; no objection to a harmony of the gospel being used in the general education the children should receive in common."8"I understand that the Catholics have withdrawn children sometimes from the schools.—Has not the objection generally been, that by the introduction of the Scriptures into those schools, the Catholicity of the children might have been endangered? Certainly.—Does not your grace conceive that the individuals of any; church are not only authorised, but bound to object to any system which strikes at the root of their religion? Certainly.— Does not your grace think the exclusion of private judgment is to the full as much an article of the Roman Catholic faith as transubstantiation? I do.—Does your grace consider it possible that the Scriptures, without note and comment, can be received by individuals in schools, without admitting the right of private judgment? I think it certainty implies that.—Do you not conceive that the distribution of the Scriptures has a tendency in Ireland to increase the number of Protestants? Certainly.—Do you conceive that it has had that operation? I rather think it must have had that operation.—Conceding the sincerity of the Roman Catholic Ecclesiastics in their belief in the doctrines of their church, does not your grace conceive they are bound in duty to oppose any system that tends to undermine their church? Undoubtedly."76lll.5l.l.l.l.l.43Mr. Spring Rice
13l.l.1211 said, that in the observations which he felt himself called upon
13l.l.1211Mr. Goulburn
161514 defended the conduct of the commissioners, as well as of the Kildare-street Society. Mistakes had been made as to the number of children under the superintendance of the Kildare-street Society; because one party had taken the number actually attending the schools, while others had referred to the number upon the roll of the establishment. The Kildare-street Society had made its report founded upon the latter; and he was convinced that no intentional misrepresentation was intended. Whatever might be the result of this question, he hoped the vote would not be withheld from any disparagement of the individual members of the institution. They were men of the highest probity, and of the utmost zeal in carrying the beneficial objects they had in view into execution. The only proper principle, in his conception, upon which they all could vote for this grant was this: "Do not destroy that which is in actual operation, before you have provided another to supply its place." He did not thereupon say that they ought to confine their view to the present system. The only principle upon which he, and those who agreed with him, supported the system, was merely to keep it in operation, but not to extend it; and that was the only one upon which it was necessary to vote at present. The vast importance of spreading education generally over Ireland was unquestionable; and nothing could be of more importance than that the education should be such as to eradicate the seeds of jealousy and dislike to each other, which too generally prevailed in the minds of the Irish Protestant and
161514Mr. Frankland Lewis
1918 said, that there appeared to be no difference in principle as to the mode of bestowing education on the people of Ireland; for the desire of the government was, that instruction should be applied without interference with the religious principles of the scholars: at least, such was the doctrine that night inculcated by an hon. member, who might be considered the organ of the Irish government on that subject. The hon. gentleman objected to committing die education of the Catholic population to a body exclusively Catholic; yet the votes then on the table proposed nothing more nor less than to give it to a body exclusively Protestant. It appeared from the report of the commissioners, that of the Catholic children now receiving instruction in Ireland, 5,000 only were educated at schools supported by parliamentary grants; and that 37,000 were educated gratuitously, without any assistance, direct, or indirect, from these funds; so that education was at present going against the principle maintained by the hon. gentleman, namely, that it should not be committed to the management of a body exclusively Catholic. The only difference then was, that at present the superintendence of the education was in the hands of those over whom no control could be exercised; and that he (Mr. Fitzgerald), and those who thought with him, were anxious that it should be placed under the direction of a responsible board. He was free to admit the fact stated by the hon. gentleman opposite, that books of an improper nature had crept into some of the Irish schools; but this applied only to those pauper seminaries which were ready to catch at whatever books came within their reach. It was therefore not to be wondered at, that certain publications were found scattered through them, forming a strong contrast to those furnished by the Education Society. He begged, notwithstanding what fell from the hon. gentleman opposite, to assure the House, that he knew many schools supplied with the most approved books, in which several hundred children were educated under the direction of their priests. It might, perhaps, be right to substitute another mode of education for that which he had just described; but unless it was such as would conciliate the Catholic population, and secure the cooperation of their priests, it must inevitably fell, and thus defeat the object of those who desired to have the two sects
1918Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
222120 said, he saw so little substantial difference in the sentiments of members who had taken part in the present debate, that he was sorry, that on what appeared to him to be a mere matter of form, so much opposition should be excited. All parties were agreed, that no interference ought to take place with the religious principles of the scholars. Two things, then, remained to be considered; namely, under what su-
222120Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had never expressed an opinion, that religion should form no part of education. All he had said was, that children should be educated in religious opinions by the respective teachers of the religions to which they belonged, in places set apart for the purpose.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 said, that Dr. Murray was disposed to go much further; for he was of opinion, that selections might be made from the Bible, on which both creeds might agree.Mr. Peel
 said, that the resolution before the House simply went to affirm a proposition contained in the fourteenth Report of the commissioners; namely that no system of education could succeed which interfered with the religious feelings of the people. Now he could not conceive how the affirming of that resolution could cast a slur on the society of Kildare-street. A complaint had been made that improper books were used in the schools. This only showed the general wish of the people to acquire education. An hon. friend of his, on visiting a school in Ireland, among other singular school-books, found Roderick Random in the hands of a boy. He immediately went to the clergyman, and asked why such a book was permitted. The answer was, that the clergy were poor, the parents were poor, and the boys brought whatever books they could find. If religion was to be taught in the schools, he could see no objection to set apart one day in the week for that purpose, and have the children instructed in separate classes. He sincerely hoped, that the right hon. gentleman would not oppose his hon. friend's motion; for if it were negatived, the consequences might be most injurious.Sir J. Newport
 said, he could see no good that would arise from affirming a general proposition on which they were all agreed; and much harm might be done out of doors if the House should divide on a question of this nature.Mr. Goulburn
23 expressed his surprise at the opinions delivered by an hon. member below him. If the Bible were a bad book, it might be well to exclude it; but if it was the work of inspiration, it
23Mr. Butterworth
24 said, it was in vain to think of any union of the systems of education in Ireland so long as there was an effort to mingle with the general scheme of education the principle of proselytism. He begged to observe that the hon. member for Dover was in a state of gross and scandalous ignorance in what he had said about the Bible in the Irish language. Did that hon. member know how few Irish gentlemen could read Irish? There was not one in every thousand of the Catholic peasantry able to read Irish. In Fact the language was almost lost, for very few indeed could read it. But the statement of the hon. member for Dover was not only ignorant, but cruel, when he represented that the catholic clergy negated the education of their flocks. If he hon. member wished to know why
24Mr. Hutchinson
 briefly replied, and declined pressing his motion.Mr. Spring Rice
 was of opinion, that the amendment would not accomplish the object it proposed to have in view.Mr. F. Lewis
 could not consent to punish the commissioners for the impropriety or misconduct of a few of their servants. As the reduction would be effected as soon as possible, any such power to the lord lieutenant could be productive of no possible good.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that the present vote was reduced as compared with the former vote, and the object of such reduction was, to provide for the gradual abolition of these charter schools. Every effort had been made, and would continue to be made, to prevent the recurrence of such transactions as had been described, but the commissioners found it difficult to get rid of all these abuses at once. As to the cruelties of former periods, the cases had been referred to the law officers of the Crown, and by them proceedings had been instituted, which were now in progress at the several assizes. The conduct of the schoolmasters had been brought under the consideration of the commissioners of education, who had diligently investigated every case of cruelty, and he hoped, at no distant period, to be able to announce an effectual reformation. The vigilance of the committee of fifteen, and of the government would be exerted, to prevent a recurrence of the abuses complained of.Mr. Goulburn
27 said, it could not be disputed, that great abuses had been practised, but measures bad been taken to correct them. He would repeat his
27Mr. Goulburn
 contended, that the whole sum was, in effect, less than it had been in former years. The hon. gentleman, in making his statements, seemed to forget altogether that the institution had been supported at one time by taxes which were levied from the people in Ireland and applied to this particular purpose; and that when these taxes were repealed, it became necessary for the government by grant, to supply the deficiency.Mr. Goulburn
 defended the conduct of the Irish landholders. Some of the schools in Dublin were as ably conducted, and as beneficial in their operation, as any establishment in England. He condemned the doctrine of the hon. member for Reading, who would allow the absentee landlords to take all, and give nothing to Ireland in return.Mr. Grattan
l.29 reprobated the practice of calling upon the people of England to support those institutions in Ireland, which
l.29Mr. Monck
 said, that, from the acts of cruelty which had been proved against the masters of those schools, and from the gross misapplication of money brought home to the Secretary and others under the Commission, he should give his vote for the amendment, to fix a stigma upon their conduct, and mark the sense of parliament as to their proceedings.Mr. John Smith
25 objected to this vote. The system of corruption and mismanagement which prevailed ought to be cor-
25Mr. John Smith
l.l.l.l.l.l.28l.l.l.l. said, he was anxious to call the serious attention of the House to the situation in which they were placed with regard to the whole system of Irish expenditure. The country was forced to submit to the greatest extravagance in these disbursements; and he knew of no proceeding that placed the conduct of the Irish government in a more censurable point of view, than the subject now before the House. In the year 1821, he had cautioned the House in vain against the improvidence of this grant. The greater part of the sums allotted to that part of the empire for miscellaneous services, which amounted in the whole to 371,589l.l.l.l.l.l.28l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
343332l.l.31 said, he rose, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to bring under the notice of the House a subject of very considerable importance, as it affected the trade, manufactures, and industry of Ireland. The question was no less a one than whether there should continue to be exercised in Ireland a power of taxation, administered by persons who, practically speaking, were irresponsible, and who scrupled not to exact for their own profits sums exceeding in annual amount many hundred thousand pounds, and charged in a manner as illegal as it was impolitic. The subject had been brought under the notice of the committees of both Houses of parliament, and was recommended by the report, as deserving the most serious and early consideration. He would, in a few words, describe the abuse of which he complained. At fairs, markets, and seaports in Ireland, tolls and customs were charged upon the sale and transfer of all commodities, including articles of the first necessity, thereby restraining trade, and enhancing the price upon the consumer. No man could defend the principle of such a mode of taxation; and if it were collected for the benefit of the state, he felt a confidence that his motion would have been anticipated by the Board of Trade, and that a repeal of such absurd and mischievous burthens would have been proposed by the ministers of the Crown. In our days, no man would continue to vindicate taxes similar to the alcovalas in Spain, the octroi of France, or the Austrian imposts in Northern Italy. And yet the local burthens of Ireland were infinitely less defensible. The House would scarcely credit the extent to which these exactions had been carried, not only without all law, but contrary to all law, the mode of collecting them being productive of still greater mischief. Nor had the evil yet fully developed itself. In
343332l.l.31Mr. Spring Rice
 then declared his intention to take the sense of the House upon the question.Sir John Newport
l.26 said, that the committee of fifteen were far from having used that diligence which the country had a right to expect from them. On looking at the estimate, he found a charge for the catechists, who were to report monthly to the committee, but who, as it appeared in evidence, had not for the space of nine months made a single report. Who were these catechists for whom this charge was made? They were the parochial clergy, and were therefore bound to catechise the children of their parishes without gratuity or remuneration. Were those who had already been found to neglect this important duty again to receive salaries for doing nothing? With regard to the duties of the committee of fifteen, how had those duties been performed? During the space of a whole month, their secretary had contrived to evade, by a series of subterfuges amounting to little short of perjury, the various interrogatories put to him, as to the progress of the com-
l.26Sir John Newport
l. after repeating his sense of the uselessness of the schools, and the waste of the public money, moved, in compliance with the suggestion of the hon. member for Montrose, an amendment, "That the sum of 19,500l.Sir John Newport,
 said, that he knew nothing of these trials or convictions but through the same channels of communication which were open to the public.Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, that the conviction of six unfortunate men for the crime of forgery of one-pound notes was, he feared, but the recommencement of that frightful system of temptation to forgery, and consequent execution from which the country had been for some time at breathing. He begged to ask his majesty's government, whether the new circulation of Bank of England one-pound notes was to be as likely to expose the country to the frightful evils of which he had spoken, as it had been hitherto? Had the Bank done, or were they about to do, any thing which would make the forgery of their notes more difficult? He admitted the impossibility of making an inimitable note, but much could be done to enhance the difficulty of imitating those at present in circulation. It was a fact, that forgeries of country bank notes were very unfrequent. But why was this, except that the country bankers took greater pains to guard their paper against mutation? He hoped that the Bank would feel the serious responsibility under which it lay, and devise some means of diminishing the temptation to the most frightful of crimes.Mr. Grenfell
 presented a petition, very numerously signed, from the inhabitants of Rochdale, praying for an alteration of the Corn Laws, a reform in parliament, and a reduction of taxation.Lord Folkestone
l said, it was ridiculous to compare the quantity of crime committed by coining with that committed by forgery. For the last three years the system had had a fair trial, and what was the result? That some convictions had undoubtedly taken place for coining, but in no proportion to the number convicted of forgery during the paper system. At the same time it should be recollected, that at no period were the five-pound notes out of circulation, and that one of the cases at Lancaster was for forging a five-pound note. He was ready to admit that the one-pound note was more easily passed away, and that many would try their hand at that, who would be afraid to attempt a larger one. The question here was, whether or not the Bank were to blame? The impossibility of making an inimitable note being admitted, how could the Bank be reproached, more particularly after the statement made by one of the Directors, that in the attempt to enhance the difficulty of forging a note, they had expended no less than 80,000lMr. Secretary Peel
l46 of Scotland said, that in making his proposed motion, he had to inform the House, that the prisons of Scotland were entirely under the guardianship of certain royal boroughs, which were not possessed of revenues sufficient for their maintenance. The consequence was, that the gaols of that country were of the worst possible description, and their management of them a disgrace to any country. The apartments were always
l46The Lord Advocate
47 said, that it would be highly convenient if the smaller jurisdictions of Scotland would agree to unite, six or seven of them together, in the erection of one large and convenient gaol The more extensive a gaol was, the more certain it was to be well managed; both because it could afford to pay proper officers, and because public curiosity was excited, and it was sure to be visited more
47Mr. Secretary Peel
43 warmly supported the
43Colonel Johnson
6766656463, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill for making several Improvements in the neighbourhood of Charing-cross and the Strand, said, that, before he entered into any statements connected with those improvements, he
6766656463Mr. Arbuthnot
69ll68 said, that he did not
69ll68Mr. Arbuthnot
 hoped, that the fact which had been stated that night would have the effect of making the Bank pause before they proceeded to take advantage of the clause in the bill just passed, and again deluge the country with a material so pregnant with temptation to crime. For three years the public had got rid of this pernicious circulation, which as soon as it again showed its head, produced fresh crimes and fresh executions. For the sake of humanity, he hoped this would be the last instance of so prodigal a sacrifice of human life.Mr. Ellice
 wished to know whether it was the hon. member's object to negative the resolution, or merely to record his opinion that this expenditure was deserving of censure. If the latter, he conceived the hon. member was proceeding in a wholly informal manner.Mr. Canning
56l said, that the proposition of the right hon. baronet was equally opposed by law and by justice. He had read over the statutes, and, though he did not presume upon giving a competent opinion, it appeared to him that they bore no construction like that put upon them by the right hon. baronet. It was never the intention of the legislature to impose frequent valuations of livings upon the clergy. There had, in fact, been no more than four valuations of livings from the time of Henry 8th down to that hour; and all those valuations were of livings which had never been valued before. The commission in the reign of Henry 8th related only to a small portion of Ireland; that under Elizabeth included merely livings not before valued; that in the reign of James was made under similar circumstances; and that under Charles was occasioned by certain livings having previously escaped valuation. The commission in the time of James 1st contained positive directions not to touch the livings which were valued before, and not to go to the full valuation of any livings. There was no question but that the right to the first-fruits was the settled possession of the Crown, and being then so settled, it was equally plain from those instructions, that the king only wished to have the sums fixed which were to be paid into the Exchequer, and that those were to be the sums to be paid in from that time for ever after. Moreover a great portion of the livings at the time of the valuations taken under queen Elizabeth were under 656lMr. Dawson
 thought it un-candid to charge upon the notes of the Bank of England those faults which were incident to all bank notes. The notes of the Scotch banks were not better executed; and as for the country bank notes, nothing could be more clumsy or worse executed. The frequent forgeries upon the Bank of England were, therefore, not to be accounted for otherwise than by reference to the facility of imitating the note, and he should say that the extent of circulation of that note over all others, and more particularly in London, and the quickness with which it circulated, were more plausible explanations of the disparity. Such was the ingenuity displayed in the forgery of notes, that it was impossible to prevent it.Mr. Home Drummond
545352 said, that, as this question had already been under discussion four different times, he might perhaps be excused, if he abstained altogether from following the right hon. baronet through the course of argument which he had thought proper to pursue, and trust to the opinions which the House had formerly expressed upon the subject. The principle upon which the right hon. baronet wished to act would involve the interests not only of the clergy of Ireland and England, but also the interests of many other orders of the state. The principle upon which the right hon. baronet wished to act was this, that the clergy of Ireland should be obliged to build and repair all the churches in that country, out of the incomes which they received as a reward for the discharge of their sacred duties. The right hon. baronet stated, that the archbishops of Ireland did not pay an equal portion of first-fruits with those of England; and therefore he proposed going into a committee to throw back
545352Mr. Goulburn
l44 said, that the Bank of England were as anxious to put a stop to forgery as any body could be. In proof of that, they had appointed a committee to inquire into the subject, which was un-
l44Mr. Irving
57 said, he had expected the right hon. baronet to make out a very strong case, and was now prepared to acknowledge, that, from the weight of argument on the other side, he felt convinced that the proposition could not be adopted. Why should they seek for a principle to justify them in that which was on every side called the usurpation of the pope? If the pope had usurped any portion of the property of the church, like that of the first-fruits, the Crown did right in resuming it; but then it ought to be given back to the church. It was upon this feeling that the Crown seemed to have acted. Unquestionably, the rightful possession of that property, after the resumption, was in the Crown. Henry 8th had given up a part of it to laymen, from whom it could not be reclaimed; and the right of the Crown to the remainder had been qualified by the sovereigns who came after him, until it had been settled on its present footing. It would indeed, be taking a heavy stride now to revive the claim of the Crown to the utmost amount of valuations to be taken in the present day. Reference had been made by the hon. member for Limerick, to what he called other usurpations by the clergy upon the four-fold division of the tithes. But then the law and the cir-
57Mr. Lockhart
 agreed as to the great facility with which Bank of England notes might be imitated. It was incumbent on the Bank of England to endeavour, by every means in their power, to limit these facilities. The notes of the Bank of Ireland were not so easily imitated, and forgeries of them were comparatively unfrequent.Mr. Wells
 said, he rose to second the motion of the learned lord with pleasure, because it was a disgrace to Scotland that such a system should have been allowed to continue so long. The only reason he could assign for its continuance was, that the prisons were in general empty, and the number of prisoners so few, that their condition excited little attention. The learned lord would do great good by inquiry.Mr. Hume
605958 said, that the two honourable Secretaries had not argued this question with their usual candour. The one had contended that the motion was consistent with neither law nor justice, and the other had endeavoured to lead the House away, by calling its attention to the danger to which the resolutions exposed every other species of property. Now, he could remember when it was asserted in that House, that every question should stand by itself, and upon its own peculiar merits; and that no other should be decided by it, unless the circumstances were precisely similar. Now, nothing could be more unlike than the circumstances of the two churches of England and Ireland. It was not for him to decide whether Henry 8th was legally entitled to act as he had done, and to appropriate ecclesiastical property at the Reformation, but certain it was, that the practice of the country had confirmed him in the possession of it. He gave portions of it to laymen, whose representatives still retained it; and other portions to the church, which derived its title only from the donor. The question, then, reduced itself to this —Did any subsequent sovereign of this country, queen Anne for instance, relinquish what she was entitled to in this respect, as far as regarded Ireland, for certain purposes, or did she not? Now, that queen gave up her claim to first-fruits and twentieths in Ireland, for the express purpose that the money should be applied to the erection and repair of churches. He asked, then, whether it had been so applied, or whether it had not? The answer was, that to the extent to which the collection had been made, the money
605958Mr. Hume
 did not object to any portion of the plans of the right hon. gentleman; all he would say was, that he hoped they would not require any portion of the public money. He was satisfied that the whole could be done by the sale of Crown lands without any other assistance. In the absence of the hon. member for Westminster, who meant to call the attention of the House to the subject, he begged to protest against the continuance of any barracks in the centre of Westminster. Every person in the neighbourhood considered those barracks a downright nuisance.Mr. Hume
70llll said, he could not refrain from entering his protest against charges for diplomatic services. The expense which we were at in this department would appear immense, if contrasted with the expense which other countries incurred in this particular. The embassy at Paris, last year, cost the country no less than 30,00070llllMr. Hume
 said, that as there seemed to be some irregularity in his amendment, he would withdraw it.Mr. Hume
55 complained of the mode of argument taken up by the opposers of the motion, and observed, that in reference to what were called the usurpations of the older times, no notice was taken of the usurpations by the clergy of those divisions of the tithes which were appro-
55Mr. Spring Rice
 observed, that, from the expressions of the hon. gentleman's amendment, he conceived it was not possible for him now to propose it. They were considering the report of a committee which had taken the resolution into its consideration before, and the hon. gentleman would see that they could not introduce into the resolution adopted by that committee, any matter which had not then been submitted to its examination.The Speaker
 said, he did not mean to oppose the motion; but merely rose to suggest the propriety of improving that part of the Strand called Exeter Change, which required improvement more than any other. Every person acquainted with that building must have marked the great inconvenience it occasioned to the trade of the metropolis, and he was satisfied that no man could deny that it was a grievous nuisance. When such extensive alterations were about to take place in the very neighbourhood, he put it to the right hon. gentleman, whether he could pass over the obstruction which this building occasioned, and whether it would not be most desirable to introduce such alteration in his intended bill as would have the effect of including it in the purchases about to be made, for the ornament and advantage of the metropolis? Such an alteration would, he was convinced, meet the approbation of parliament and the public. While he was on this subject, he would call the attention of the right hon. gentleman to a letter which had appeared in several morning papers, signed, "An old Inhabitant of Mary-la-Bonne." Every one would acknowledge, that all due precautions should be taken to preserve the trees in those plantations which adorned the park at the northern extremity of the town. But still it appeared to him, that a reasonable care of those plantations was by no means incompatible with the admission of the public to those enjoyments of pure air and exercise in which they had formerly been indulged; and he hoped that those who had the superintendence of the improvements would take the subject into consideration, and adopt some means of laying the park open to the public. Before he sat down, he begged to observe, that the style of building in Regent-street, which had been formed from the plans of that able architect who was to conduct the projected alterations at Charing-cross, deserved his unqualified approbation. There might be some difference of opinion upon particular erections; but, taking it in one view as the principal street of the metropolis, he was convinced there were few who would not confess, that it reflected high honour on the architect, and afforded a satisfactory proof of his taste and judgment.Sir M. W. Ridley
45 admitted, that it was impossible to produce a perfectly inimitable bank note, but, from the specimens he had seen, he was clearly of opinion that the present note might be very much improved. It was certainly unfair to say, that because Bank of England notes were more often, they were therefore more easily imitated. It should be recollected, that these notes were differently circumstanced from all others. The notes of country bankers circulated within a small compass, and the handwriting of the banker was known, perhaps, to every man in trade within the particular district. But it was not so with the Bank of England note. He did not think that from any superiority in the form of the note, nor even by getting rid of a paper circulation, we should put an end to crime; for
45Sir M. W. Ridley
 objected to the statement of the right hon. mover, that the church lands of Ireland amounted to 700,000 acres; but admitting that amount to be correct, the right hon. baronet must be aware that the greater part of that land was held under long leases, sometimes of fifty, sixty, or a hundred years. His sentiments on the present question had been so fully anticipated by his right hon. friend the secretary for Ireland, and so clearly and eloquently stated by him, that he would add nothing in support of those observations, but should content himself with saying, that he entirely concurred in the view which his right hon. friend had take a of the subject.Sir R. H. Inglis
62l61 said, in reply, that the question came to this simple point—whether a certain revenue given by the Crown to the church for a specific purpose, was to be rendered available for the purpose for which it was intended, or the people
62l61Sir J. Newport
"That it appears just and equitable that this branch of royal revenue, liberally appropriated by the Crown for salutary objects, specially connected with the maintenance of the church of Ireland (at the same time that a great remission of burthens affecting the clergy thereof was granted by the royal munificence), should be rendered actually efficient for the attainment of the valuable purposes for which the grant was made, and that the deficiency created by this inadequate valuation should be no longer supplied by the imposition of additional charge on the body of the people by parochial taxation, or on the funds of the United Kingdom by parliamentary grant."l51llldsldsldsl50lllll.ll49llsll.l.,l.l.,l.48 rose to call the attention of the House to the state of the First-Fruits Fund in Ireland, with a view to improve and render it more effectual. The right hon. baronet then proceeded to give a history of the establishment of this fund, and of the uses to which it was intended to be applied. The act of queen Anne declared that the first-fruits were to be appropriated to the purposes of building and repairing churches, providing glebes wherever they were wanting, and also for the more liberal support of the clergy. At the period when this fund was formed, there was also collected in Ireland, from the different benefices, one-twentieth, and from the different benefices in England, one-tenth of their valuation, which were to be applied to the same purposes. The valuation of that period, with respect to Ireland, had remained the same ever since, although it was manifest, that the real value of livings must have been greatly increased. The consequence was, that the sums which the clergy ought really to pay for the building and repair of churches were obliged to be supplied by the state at large. In the act of parliament which related to England, a clause was inserted, with respect to the propriety of having new valuations, at particular periods, which had not found its way into the Irish statute on the same subject; the consequence of which was, that no new valuation had been made in that country. Now, it appeared to him quite evident, that, from time to time, as the value of the living increased, the amount of the first-fruit should be increased also. This was a deduction perfectly clear in his mind; because it was a grant of the property of the Crown, made by the Crown for the better support of the church and of the church establishment, and not for
"That it appears just and equitable that this branch of royal revenue, liberally appropriated by the Crown for salutary objects, specially connected with the maintenance of the church of Ireland (at the same time that a great remission of burthens affecting the clergy thereof was granted by the royal munificence), should be rendered actually efficient for the attainment of the valuable purposes for which the grant was made, and that the deficiency created by this inadequate valuation should be no longer supplied by the imposition of additional charge on the body of the people by parochial taxation, or on the funds of the United Kingdom by parliamentary grant."l51llldsldsldsl50lllll.ll49llsll.l.,l.l.,l.48Sir John Newport
ll7574 allowed, that it was of great importance that any defects in the law relating to patent rights should be remedied, and that it was the duty of the House, as far as was consistent with policy and sound reason, to afford every protection and facility of operation to those who devoted their time, their fortune, and their talents, to improvements which were likely to become useful to their country, and beneficial to mankind. He did not, however, agree that all the
ll7574The Attorney-General
76 while he admitted in its fullest extent the importance of the subject, could not agree that the protection ought to be held inviolable in every instance to the extent which the patentees considered likely to remunerate them. On the contrary, he believed that, in many cases, patents had a most pernicious effect upon the trade and enterprise of the country, and that improvement had been cramped or wholly stayed by the consequences of their exclusive and inviolable privileges being granted for so long a period. If the cases were submitted to a committee above stairs, he was convinced
76Mr. Maberly,
 hoped, that his hon. friend would not be induced to relax in his opposition to the bill. Every body who knew the mining counties of Wales, knew that this company was not at all necessary. Instead of there not being enough, there was too much iron there, and the great evil of this bill would be, that it would increase the competition to a mischievous extent.Colonel Wood
78 said, that the reasons given by the two hon. members for their opposition was very extraordinary. They alleged no public grounds. They did not say that it was likely to prove
78Colonel Davies
 said, that the object of the bill was to raise the price of the company's shares in the market, and not to benefit Wales, or the iron trade. He had always stood up for individuals embarked in trade, against these overwhelming efforts of capital, and he would do so on this occasion. The object of the bill was, he repeated to give additional value to the shares, that they might become objects of gambling speculation.Mr. Calcraft
 was afraid that the House was inclined to proceed too hastily on the subject. Last year they passed all bills relating to companies of the most trumpery description, and now they seemed indisposed to pass any which was at all connected with a company. It became the House to be more consistent with their legislation. They ought to decide upon a general principle, and not with reference to the merits of particular companies. It was true that the sanction of parliament was, in some instances, sought for the purpose of giving facility to the circulation of shares, and of catching the unwary; but it should be understood, that although parliament should pass a bill to facilitate the operations of the company, and to free it from the inconveniences to which it might be otherwise legally subjected, it by no means pledged itself to an approval of the enterprise in favour of which the bill was required.Mr. Baring
 said, that he knew nothing of the particular company, the bill in favour of which was now before the House. Whether it would be beneficial or not to the principality of Wales, he would not say; but he thought it would have been well, if the parties, before they applied to parliament, had availed themselves of a bill which passed towards the close of the last session. He alluded to an act empowering the king in council to grant limited charters. An opportunity would have then presented itself of discussing the grounds on which this company sought the relief required by this bill. The House had first a right to inquire if the allegations of the parties requiring this relief were true; and, secondly, if true, why they had not first adopted the easy course of applying for the limited charter, which, by the act of last session, the Crown had the power to grant?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his regret that the committee of inquiry had not been able to lay their additional report before the House at an earlier period. It was however in preparation, and would shortly be produced, and the House would find, that it was a work of no small labour. The hon. member, adverting to what had been said as to the number of scholars, observed, that it was difficult to ascertain the number on the rolls, for three months together. The committee had taken the number at 61,000; and when it was stated at 70,000, it was not, perhaps, too high. When the parties more immediately concerned made their report amount to 100,000 children, they did it not with a view to deceive; for they candidly admitted that they had taken into account schools not at present in operation, but which were likely to be so in a short time. Although it might be wrong to make such a return, he begged to bear testimony to the high respectability of the managers of the Kildare-street Society. The honour and integrity of those gentlemen had been most unfairly attacked, and it was but justice to vindicate their characters from the stigma attempted to be fixed upon them.Mr. Frankland Lewis
 said, that joint-stock companies came to that House to obtain bills of the nature of that before the House, in order to gain a character out of doors, and to enable them to sell their shares to advantage. The House ought to proceed with extreme caution on the subject, after the dishonest practices which had been committed by many of the companies who obtained charters last year.Lord A. Hamilton
77 said, he had a few observations to offer upon this bill. It purposed, as he perceived, to enable the Welch Iron and Coal Company, to sue and be sued in the name of their Secretary. Now, he thought the House should recollect, that if they gave this bill their consent, they at the same time granted a kind of parliamentary sanction and authority to the purposes for which the company had been formed, and to the manner in which they proposed to carry their intentions into execution. Now, as he did not conceive that the House meant to give any such sanction or approbation to the companies which had been applying in this manner for the powers of an act of parliament, he thought the present a very fit opportunity to check such applications in future. He drew a very great distinction between companies formed to do what nothing but great companies could do—such as working the mines containing precious minerals in other countries, and various other undertakings, which required the hazard of immense capital, without the fear of great individual loss—and those companies which were created for undertakings of a mere ordinary description, and which were likely to prove ruinously injurious by competition with meritorious individuals, whose properties were invested in those branches of trade to which they proposed to apply their joint-stock capital and powers. Some of his constituents fearing such consequences from this company, and feeling they could prove it was not likely to be productive of any of the advantages, either to particular districts, or to the country at large, which it promised, had incurred a very serious expense last session in opposing the bill in the committee, and he, finding that the hon. member who was endeavouring to carry it through the House this session, and who had chiefly interested himself in its success, was never, on any occasion, present at that committee, and that there was no probability of the bill being
77Mr. Littleton
84 said, that from the suspicious circumstances connected with the proceedings of the Kildare-street Society,
84Mr. Bright
ll said, he could not answer the statement, as he had not seen the document; but he was surprised that the hon. member should animadvert upon the conduct of the clergy and prelates, when he ought to have seen from the report, that not one of that profession had anything to do with the management of the society. The salary of the secretary was not 400llMr. Goulburn
 said, he wished to know whence the hon. member for Aberdeen derived his calculation relative to the average of seventy scholars.Mr. Goulburn
 said, his objection to the bill was, that it gave the sanction of parliament to a company only for the purpose of enabling them to come into the market upon better terms than other persons. Every allegation in the preamble of the bill was false. It alleged, that the prosperity of Wales had been solely owing to mining companies of this sort, which he denied; and he would refuse, therefore, to put them upon a better footing than other individuals.Mr. Stuart Wortley
83 said, that the Kildare-street schools had done more good for Ireland than the hon. member was likely to do in twenty years, should his life be spared so long. He could not readily explain how the returns had been made out to tally with a particular number of scholars. Perhaps some general average had been taken. At any rate, he was
83Mr. Butterworth
llllllllllll82 said, that the society for which the present vote was claimed was totally unworthy of the attention of the House, for it had made statements relative to its services which were altogether false. He must observe, moreover, that the rich bishops and wealthy clergy of
llllllllllll82Mr. Hume
 said, he had taken it from the report of the society itself, for 1824.Mr. Hume
 did not wish to cast any reflection on those gentlemen individually; but, in their collective capacity, they had certainly committed errors. How were those errors attempted to be reconciled? According to the report of the society, the number of children educated by them was 100,000, while, in point of fact, it was little more than half that amount. The report of the managers was, therefore, at variance with truth. It was in fact an unfounded statement. With respect to the share which the Roman Catholics had in the management of the society, it appeared that there had been only two gentlemen of that persuasion who were connected with it, one of whom was since dead. Was it therefore to be expected that the Roman Catholic population of Ireland would suffer their children to attend those schools, the managers of which were, with one exception, Protestants? An alteration in the system was loudly called for, and he hoped it would take place at no distant day.Mr. Hume
lll after explaining the reason for the postponement of the bill, and his absence from the committee, observed that he hoped to be able so to convince the hon. member for Staffordshire of the propriety and importance of the bill, as to induce him to withdraw his opposition to it. The company had purchased mines at a cost of 100,000lllMr. Peter Moore,
 brought up the report of the committee upon this bill. On moving, that the amendments be now read,Mr. Peter Moore
8180 said, he was not aware that any notorious bubble companies had obtained sanction from that House. The number of applications made last year for acts of parliament, on the part of joint-stock companies, first called the attention of the House to the subject, and they almost came to a resolution not to entertain, as a matter of course, an application from any number of persons associated in partnership for permission to sue and be sued through their secretary. Towards the close of last year, parliament
8180Mr. Huskisson
 said, that his hon. friend might have gone much further than stating that the number of scholars in the four districts averaged at the rate of seventy for each school; for he would find that in every county in Ireland the comparison between the number of scholars and schools would produce precisely the same result. And yet, upon such a statement was the committee called upon to vote away the public money. Unless these returns of the society could be explained, he should consider them utterly disgraceful to those who published them.Lord Milton
79 concurred in the opinion, that the passing of the bill in par-
79Lord Palmerston
737271 presented a petition from Charles Broderip, esq. of the city of Westminster, setting forth,737271Lord Palmerston
86 brought in his bill "for consolidating and amending the Laws in England relative to Larceny, and certain other offences, affecting property." He said, he was so desirous that this bill should receive the most deliberate investigation, that he hoped he should be permitted to have it read the first and second time, and to go through the committee, where the blanks which fixed the penalty to the different offences could be filled up. The bill
86Mr. Secretary Peel
 next brought in his bill "for improving the administration of Criminal Justice in England," and requested he might be allowed to take the same course with this as he had done with the preceding measure. This bill differed only in one respect from the statement which he had made when he obtained leave to bring it in, and that alteration was made on the suggestion of one of the highest judicial authorities this country had ever produced—an authority whose opinions were reverenced in every part of the world where a love of justice and equity prevailed—he alluded to lord Stowell, the venerable judge of the Admiralty Court. That noble lord proposed to extend the principle of the bill, so far as it related to prosecutions for misdemeanour at the quarter sessions, to offences tried in the Admiralty Court. At present, when persons were tried for offences committed on the high seas, even of the most atrocious character, the court had no power by law to award any indemnification to the persons supporting the prosecution; and the object of the alteration was, to give to the court of Admiralty a discretionary power of indemnifying individuals who came forward as prosecutors. On the common principle of justice it was only, fair that the expense should be borne by the public.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that if the votes for those charitable institutions were now proposed for the first time, he could not conceive any sort of reasoning which could make him acquiesce in them. But they had now been voted for so long a period, that they ought not to be abruptly discontinued. The House would not, he was sure, be disposed at once to break up these establishments, which, however questionable in their principle, were necessary and useful to the people of Ireland. No one would recommend to the legislature to discard from their mind all charitable feelings for a cold and too strict an economy.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the commission had already reported, but the hon. member had not read that report. He defended these institutions, as, from his own knowledge, being highly beneficial to Ireland.Mr. F. Lewis
88 said, that it was now five years since government ought to have pro-
88Mr. Hume
l again expressed his objections to the vote for the Kildare-street Society, in Dublin. In addition to what he had said last night, as to the scholars bearing exactly a seventieth proportion to the number of schools of this institution, in the several counties of Ireland, he was now enabled to state, that the same proportion was observable in the reports of the society of 1824, 1825, and 1826. He was, therefore, warranted in saying, that this was a manufactured statement. He apologized, however, for having connected the church of Ireland so closely with this institution. This was professedly a proselyting society, and it was impossible for a Catholic to read any work called a tract. He objected to a tract called a "Search for Sin," as containing the most disgusting rhapsodies. He had a horror of tracts. It was monstrous to charge so large a sum for educating 26,000 Catholic children. He concluded by moving, as an amendment, "That a commission being now employed to inquire into the state of education in Ireland, and the best means of promoting the same, it is, in the opinion of this House, as contrary to parliamentary usage, as it is inconsistent with economy, to allow of any increase of expense for the society for promoting the education of the poor of Ireland until the commissioners have made their final report to this House, and therefore the amount should be reduced to 22,000lMr. Hume
llll87 said, he had not heard from his majesty's ministers whether they intended to make any alteration in the estimates for charitable purposes in Ireland. He would, therefore, avail himself of the present opportunity of placing on record his opinion of the situation in which the
llll87Mr. Hume
lsl92dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdssdsdsds91 requested the House to bear in mind, that the bill which now came recommended by the committee, was last year rejected by the House. He would undertake to show, that the advantages of cheapness and rapidity which were expected from this bill, would by no means result from it. He would not object to it, if any case of public necessity, or great public improvement required it; and least of all would he object to it if it were proved that it would be serviceable to the trade of Ireland. No bill had ever come before the House with higher pretensions than the present. It was first proposed, that the movement on this railroad should be as rapid as twelve miles an hour; this was then altered to ten, and thus the thirty miles was to be gone over in three hours. But, what was now proposed? Why, the very reverse of this; and, instead of moving at the rate of ten miles an hour, it was intended to move at the rate of three miles an hour, which was the performance of thirty miles in ten hours, instead of thirty miles in three. The conveyance by the canals was twelve hours. There were some who stated it at a higher rate; but the average conveyance was twelve hours, making
lsl92dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsdssdsdsds91Mr. Stanley
 said, that this railroad would become a monopoly in the hands of the proprietors.Captain Bradshaw
95 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to remedy the inconveniences arising from the present state of the county of Durham, with regard to the appointment of its High Sheriff. That office was held for life, in the county of Durham, by the nomination of the Bishop; and in consequence of the death of that prelate, and from there being as yet no successor possessed of the power to appoint his officers, the whole business of the county was at a stand. No juries could be summoned, no sessions could be held, no public business of any kind could be transacted, unless some measure was adopted to render those officers still legally capable of executing the duties assigned to them. For that purpose, he proposed that the sheriff and other officers should be empowered by a bill, which he trusted the House would enable him to pass through its stages with the least possible delay, to continue in the situations they now hold for six months from the present time. He was not however prepared to say, that, after the termination of that period, he would consent to leave the office of High Sheriff of the populous and important county of Durham to revert to the same state, with respect to its appointment and duration, as before the death of the late prelate. He saw no sufficient reason why that high office should be held at the pleasure of the bishop, nor why the gentlemen of the county of Durham should not be compelled, like the gentlemen of the other counties of England, to serve in their
95Mr. Secretary Peel
ll97 said, that, in rising to move a resolution regarding the salary of the president of the Board of Trade, he thought it necessary to observe, that the state of that office had not alone been considered defective by his colleagues in office on that side of the House, but had actually, on several occasions, drawn forth observations from the gentlemen opposite, many of whom, during the last session, had repeatedly given utterance to an opinion that the salary of his right hon. friend was totally incompatible with the duties which it became necessary for him to perform, and expressed their regret that so important an office should be allowed to continue without any adequate remuneration. Prior to the year 1782, all matters connected with the trade and commerce of the country had been managed by a Board composed of various members of the government, each of whom received a salary for that specific service. It might be doubted now how far a Board thus constituted was calculated to take a proper view of the various commercial relations of the country, or to advance those measures which might be considered essential to the public interests; certain it was, that many more received salaries than were at all necessary for the service of that department; and, after having been for a time subjected to the lash of Mr. Burke's ridicule at that period, the Board was finally abolished, and a determination made to have its functions performed in some other way. It was soon found, however, that in this country, commerce affected such a variety of interests, involved questions so complicated, and altogether demanded a knowledge and acquirements so different from the common routine of ministerial duties, as to render it impossible that it could be safely left without some superintendence more particularly devoted to its peculiar objects; and, in consequence, about the year 1784, the concerns of trade and commerce were intrusted to a committee of the privy council, under the direction of a president and vice-president, holding other offices, from which they received those salaries which were justly due as a remuneration to all who devoted their services to the benefit of their country. But it must be obvious that this mode of paying for the fulfilment of the duties of a highly useful and effective office by the salary of one which was well paid, though less effective, was
ll97The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll99, in reply to the hon. gentleman, said, that his right hon. friend had no other salary but that of Treasurer of the Navy. As to the question, whether his right hon. friend held any other office, he had, until lately, been agent for Ceylon, but had now given up that situation. Neither he nor his right hon. friend ever thought of his holding the situation of Treasurer of the Navy with the presidency of the Board of Trade, after the appointment of a sufficient salary for the last-named office. He thought that the salary of Treasurer of the Navy was no more than the person holding that office was entitled to receive, if he held no other situation. He thought, however, that there was no necessity for continuing the allowance of a house at the public expense. The reasons which ap-
ll99The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll100llll bore testimony to the high talents of the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. He was free to say that a more able and efficient servant could not be found to fill the duties of that office. Yet, much as he respected the zeal and abilities of the right hon. gentleman, he could not see the necessity of increasing the salary of the situation which he held, at least to the extent which had been proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer. Under cover of giving 5,000ll100llllMr. Calcraft
101 complained of the short notice which had been given with respect to the present motion. He had not heard of it until he came down that night. There were circumstances of suspicion connected with this measure, which, if known to the House, would, he was convinced, make a strong impression. Circumstances of a mysterious nature were connected with the present motion, of which it was right that the House should be put in possession before they came to a decision. He begged to call the attention of the House to the charter which had been last year granted by the President of the Board of Trade, to incorporate a certain silk company. At the head of that company stood the name of Mr. Alexander Baring, and he could not but consider it a very singular coincidence, that early in the month of June, 1825, a short time after the charter had been granted, Mr. Baring rose in his place to propose an increase to the salary of the President of the Board of Trade. He
101Mr. Robertson
102l said, he could assure the hon. gentleman, that he had totally mistaken his motives in proposing an increase of salary to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. He certainly had proposed that increase from a conviction that it was called for; and, in giving his support to the present measure, his opinion as to its justice and expediency was unaltered. He would go even further, and say, that there never was a vote more justly called for. With respect to the allusion which had been made to the company of which he had become a member, he begged leave to offer some explanation. The silk company was established last year with a view of benefitting Ireland, and with that view he had lent his name to the concern; but with respect to any profits which he might be supposed to derive from the speculation, he could assure the hon. gentleman and the House, that he had only contributed 200102lMr. Baring
lll103 said, that if the knowledge of what passed there was confined within the walls of the House, it would be ludicrous in him to notice the charge of the hon. member for Gram-pound; and he only did so for the purpose of repeating the declaration which had been already made by his right hon. friend, that he had lent his name to that company honourably, and without the slightest hope of participating in its advantages. If it drew to itself all the wealth of the Indies, his right hon. friend would not derive a single farthing from it; and when the hon. member imputed to the hon. member for Taunton that, on ac-
lll103Mr. Secretary Peel
104 entirely concurred in the view taken of the question before the House by the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He could not conceive why the situation of President of the Board of Trade should not be equally remunerated with the Secretary for the Foreign and Home Departments. The labours were at least equal to either of those appointments; and he would suggest to the chancellor of the Exchequer, that the
104Mr. Maberly
 also agreed in the vote, on the understanding that a reduction would be made in the salary of the Treasurer of the Navy, or the office altogether abolished. But, that, if any member should insist on a pledge to that effect being given before they concurred in the resolution, he should feel it his duty to join him.Mr. Bernal
 repeated, that he would certainly oppose the present vote unless he received some pledge that the treasurer-ship of the Navy would be modified, and the business done, as it might be, by the paymaster.Mr. Calcraft
l said, the resolution would have no reference to the seat of the right hon. gentleman. He was adverse to the proposition of amalgamating the offices of President of the Board of Trade and Treasurer of the Navy. It was a fallacy to suppose that the latter office was a sinecure. On the contrary, its duties were manifold, and essential to the efficient regulation of that important branch of the service. Whether 5,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
l repeated, that he would oppose the resolution, unless some pledge were given that it was not intended to be made an opportunity for placing an additional office of 3,000lMr. Calcraft
 observed upon the great responsibility of the Treasurer of the Navy, and urged the necessity of keeping this office distinct from that of the President of the Board of Trade.Sir F. Ommaney
 suggested that it would be better to leave out the consideration of the office of Treasurer of the Navy for the present, and make it the subject of a separate discussion.Mr. Baring
l opposed the union of the two offices of President of the Board of Trade and Treasurer of the Navy. The question at present to be discussed was, whether or not 5,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it incumbent upon the House to accompany the increased grant in the one quarter with an inquiry into the nature of the other office. He would support the amendment of the hon. member for Aberdeen, but that he thought it too general. If it were competent to him to move an amendment upon an amendment, he would move that the inquiry be restricted to the office of Treasurer of the Navy.Mr. R. Smith
 said, he could not support the original motion, unless it was modified, as far as respected the treasurership of the Navy.Mr. Maberly
 said, that an inquiry into the nature of other offices was not necessarily connected with the present motion. It was not said that the proposed salary was too great; but whether it was too great or too small, if there were any useless offices, let the House abolish them, without any reference to the present question. If this office was necessary, the country was rich enough to afford it: if it was not necessary, the committee ought not, of course, to agree to the vote. The hon. member need not regret the rejection of his amendment now, as he would have an opportunity of bringing on the subject again.Mr. Secretary Peel
l107 hoped the hon. member for Aberdeen would agree to the amendment, by which his proposition for inquiry was
l107Mr. Baring
l said, the question he had brought before the committee was, what ought the President of the Board of Trade to receive? He thought the two offices ought not to be connected; and that the question as to the salary of the Treasurer of the Navy ought not, therefore, to be discussed, unless it could be shewn that they were necessarily connected with each other. He had no objection to postpone the consideration of this motion, though he did not see any necessity for so doing. He would only observe, that when Mr. Rose held the office of Treasurer of the Navy, he received a higher salary than was at present given. For the last six years that he held the office he received 4,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 recommended that the amendment should be confined to the office of the Treasurer of the Navy, and that the inquiry should be, whether that office could be modified or abolished.Mr. Ellice
106 said, he should decidedly vote for the salary to be given to the right hon. gentleman, as a proper but moderate remuneration for his great talents and devotion to public business, and he fully agreed, that no one had held any office more to the advantage of the country. Still he could not give his vote for
106Mr. Ellice
 said, that the interests of the public were of paramount importance to those of the canals; but he was persuaded that the rail-roads would be of no general advantage commensurate with the injury they would inflict upon private property. He should therefore oppose the bill.Mr. Philips
 rose for the purpose of moving the third reading of this bill. He observed, that though he had been a member of that House for many years, he had rarely found it necessary to make any observation on a local measure of this nature; but, as he saw an unusual muster of those who objected to the bill, he felt it to be his duty to offer a few remarks in support of it. His constituents were decidedly in favour of the measure, as was evident from the number of petitions which had been presented, showing the benefit that would be derived from it. It was true, that last session a similar measure had been defeated, but even then the justice of its principle had been admitted and, since that time, those who most strenuously objected to the formation of the road, had given up their opposition. It could not be denied, that the trade of Liverpool and Manchester had increased very much of late years; and therefore this new communication between the two places had become necessary. It was said, that individuals, who had property on the intended line of road, would be injured. This, however, was an argument that would militate against every species of improvement. The population on the thirty-one miles which intervened between Liverpool and Manchester was nearer in amount to 1,000,000, than 800,000 persons; and, therefore, it was impossible that some inconvenience must not be suffered. But, assuredly, inconvenience ought not to prevent a great public improvement. This was a measure that did not originate in the spirit of speculation. Local circumstances, and the clear necessity of having an additional accommodation for the transit of goods between the two towns, had given rise to it. The plan would be extremely beneficial to Ireland; for he considered the adoption of every project which rendered the communication between the two counties more rapid and easy as a point gained for Ireland.General Gascoyne
 wished to know whether the new arrangement would necessarily vacate the right hon. gentleman's seat in that House.Mr. Lockhart
ll105 could not acquiesce in the proposal of the right hon. gentleman opposite. The House was bound to abstain from imposing new burthens upon the country while there were already so many
ll105Mr. Hume
lll98 said, that any suggestion thrown out by his honourable friends for increasing the allowances of public officers,
lll98Mr. Hume
 approved of the proposal for assimilating the practice in counties, in the appointment of sheriffs, but he wished to take that opportunity of putting it to the right hon. Secretary, whether it would not be expedient to make some alteration in the revenues of the bishop of Durham. All the world acknowledged the income of that person was much too large, and he conceived there was no reflection cast upon the church of England more poignant or more just, than the lamentable disproportion in the incomes of its servants. Thousands were left poor to swell the revenue of one or two overwhelming rich, and he thought the present would be a noble opportunity to commence a reformation of errors, to cast aside abuses, and, by reducing the salary of the bishop, clear the way for freeing the church of England from the imputations thrown out against it for the inequality of the incomes allotted to its ministers. The right hon. gentleman had, to his infinite honour, been the proposer of many improvements, and he could not avoid throwing out a suggestion of that kind at the present moment, that the right hon. gentleman might have the credit of taking it upon himself now; for he might be assured, that the time would come when such a reformation must take place, in spite of all opposition, and when the incomes of the dignitaries of the church of England would be reduced to a sum, bearing a juster relation to that received by their fellow-labourers, and the whole body be thereby rendered more respectable and more useful.Mr. Hume
l said he was not understood. He did not mean to object to this vote of 5,000lMr. Hume
 said, that if the House went into the committee of inquiry, he would point out many offices from which the saving might be made.Mr. Hume
ll considered the present was not the time for taxing the country with an increase of official salary. Why not add 2,000llMr. T. Wilson
 said, he did not mean to follow the hon. member who had spoken last but one, into all the details to which he had adverted. The course which the hon. member had pursued was rather unusual. He might have urged all his objections in the committee (which he believed the hon. member had not attended) instead of coming down and discussing all the bearings of the bill on the third reading. His gallant friend had told them, that this measure went to invade private property. But this must always be the case whenever an improvement was contemplated, whether it was the formation of a highway or the excavation of a canal. His gallant friend had stated, that he had known Liverpool for forty-four-years. Now, he would ask his gallant friend whether, during that long period, the towns of Liverpool and Manchester had remained stationary? If they had, as was the fact, increased in size and importance, that circumstance formed a prima facie case in favour of this measure. The argument that this rail-road would charge more to the public than was charged by the canal, was one which he could not understand. If it did charge more, the only effect would be, that the public would not go upon it. But the only ground upon which he supported this rail-road was, that it would be likely to charge a great deal less than was charged by the canal. It was an especial condition that the profits upon the undertaking should be limited always to ten per cent. Would the canals limit their profit to this extent—taking as they were now doing, more than 100? His main reason for assisting this project of the rail-road was to break up the overgrown monopoly which was now enjoyed by the canals.Mr. Huskisson
ll said, the hon. member's amendment went to a saving of this 5,000llMr. Peel
90 seconded the motion. From the evidence given before the committee, with whose recommenda-
90Mr. William Peel
93 seconded the amendment. There had, he said, been a great deal of manœuvering about this bill. It was thrown out last session, and taken up
93Sir Isaac Coffin
 was in favour of the measure, which he thought would promote the interests both of Liverpool and Ireland.Sir J. Newport
108 said, that the proposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen was unquestionably good in principle, but the selection of natives to sit upon juries would, in many situations, be found most inconvenient, and even impossible, in
108Mr. Wynn
 having moved, that the House should resolve itself into a committee on the Civil List act,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l110 said, that whatever connexion the treasurership of the Navy might have with the Board of Trade, the Board of Trade had no connexion at all with the bishopric of Dur-
l110The Chancellor of the Excheqeur
113lllllllll112llllll111 said, that if he could persuade himself that the office of Treasurer of the Navy was a sinecure, he would readily consent to its abolition, and provide for the increased salary of the President of the Board of Trade out of the saving thus made. But it would be unreasonable to do so, unless it could be shown that the office was unnecessary, or was overpaid. As far as the present salary might be considered over-payment for the duties of that office, disconnected from any other, he was disposed to reduce it. As to the duties of the office, he had held it, and he could assure the committee, that it was very far removed from any thing like a sinecure, and that it would be impossible to transfer its duties to the Bank, as some had preposterously supposed, without injury to the public service. The duty of the treasurer was not merely the acceptance of bills drawn upon him by the commissioners of the Navy. It was also his duty to see that the money was paid to the parties who had a right to receive it. He bad besides to attend to the payment of money payable on seamen's wills—an addition to his other duties which had devolved on him some years back, and which was in itself no inconsiderable source of active employment. He had also constant references made to him from the paymaster of the Navy, and other officers subordinate to him; and these required a great portion of his time. Until within a few years back, the law was very defective as to seamen's wills. Frauds to a great extent had been committed on individuals and on the public, by the facility with which money was obtained under fictitious wills. He would mention
113lllllllll112llllll111The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll said, he was quite willing to vote 5,000llMr. Denison
lll replied, that the first defaulter had made off with 25,000lllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, what became of the responsibility so much talked of, when the right hon. gentleman had not been called upon to pay the money?Mr. Denison
120119 observed, upon the imposing manner in which the chancellor of the Exchequer and his right hon. colleagues always magnified the business, and exaggerated the responsibility of any of the chief officers of government. They spoke with such feeling of the pain and anxiety belonging to public appointments, that it really seemed strange, taking their own representations, that they were ever able to persuade any men to undertake such a burthen of care and restlessness. Was it indeed a fact, that these distinguished posts were forced upon unwilling individuals; that honour was thrust upon them; and that, instead of large salaries and small duties being greedily caught at by hungry expectants, they were thrown back upon those who offered them, with a sneer? He apprehended, however, judging from experience, that neither the chancellor of the Exchequer, nor the noble earl at the head of his majesty's councils, was ever obliged to beat up for recruits, and to offer a bounty for the acceptance of a place. The right hon. gentleman had said a great deal of the excellence of his paymaster and of the misfortune he should sustain if that useful officer were to die; but did he mean to say, that there was nobody, second or third, in the department, capable of discharging the duties of the situation. He could not imagine how any difficulty of the sort anticipated could arise. It seemed much more likely that ministers were anxious to uphold and defend a place which they had promised to some officious dependent. That he sin-
120119Mr. Calcraft
124123122 expressed his regret that this proposition had been brought forward. He had the most sincere respect for the right hon. gentleman, and a high sense of his services to the public; and it was distressing, that this salary
124123122Mr. Abercromby
l, in allusion to the responsibility said to be attached to the office of Treasurer of the Navy, remarked, that he did not perceive in what manner the public were protected from the embezzlement or mal-appropriation of the money. The person who filled that situation was under no sort of responsibility. The office might be entirely abolished by giving a small additional salary to the paymaster of the Navy, who could fulfil the duties conjointly. He contended, that ministers had made out no case to satisfy the House that the two offices could not be efficiently filled by one person for an adequate remuneration. In granting this salary of 5,000lMr. Bernal
 rose to propose what his hon. and learned friend had suggested in an earlier stage of the debate, that the chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again. By this course, ministers would have time till Monday to reconsider the proposition they had submitted to the House.Mr. Calcraft
 urged the propriety of the proposed salary, and defended the office of Treasurer of the Navy.Sir F. Ommaney
126125 said, that whatever arrangements the House might finally adopt with respect to other offices, he saw no difficulty like that felt by the right hon. gentleman opposite, in coming to a decision upon the present question, which only respected the salary of the President of the Board of Trade. To vote for that salary would not compromise the right of any gentleman to call for an inquiry into the office of Treasurer of the Navy. He denied that this measure would increase the influence of the Crown. It might be right or wrong for the Treasurer of the Navy to sit in that House; but it was not matter of course that the two offices should be held by the same person. Lord Melville had held the office of President of the Board of Control with the treasurership of the Navy; lord Harrowby, the right hon. gentleman opposite, he himself, and the late Mr. Sheridan, had each held the treasurership of the Navy, without holding the presidency of the Board of Trade. During all that time it had never been made a question that the Treasurer of the Navy ought not to be allowed to sit in that House. He maintained that it was perfectly incorrect
126125Mr. Secretary Canning
 seconded the amendment.Mr. Maberly
 said, it had been remarked that the proposed measure had found none but official defenders. Now this being an arrangement of office, gentlemen connected with the departments of government might be the only adequate judges; but, it appeared to him of vast importance, that the president ship of the Board of Trade should, in this great commercial country, be a cabinet office, and one to which a member of the cabinet should be able to devote his time; and the more so, as in the class from which cabinet ministers were, for the most part, taken, there could be very few habitually conversant with the details of commerce. It was allowed, that very great sums passed yearly through the office of the Treasurer of the Navy; and that, when joined to the presidentship of the Board of Trade, it was not possible that the treasurer should give them an adequate attention. The abolishing the office, and transferring its duties to the paymaster, did not appear to him any great economy as in such case, the salary of the first clerk must amount to nearly the same thing. He did not think, considering the liability of the treasurer as a public accountant, that the proposed reduced remuneration was an extravagant one, and the only argument against the arrangement which he had heard pressed was, that there had been two Whig treasurers of the Navy, one of whom got through his business in an hour, and the other never meddled with it all.Mr. Hudson Gurnet
130 observed, that the subject was one of the utmost importance, as it not only involved the question, whether there should be salaries to two efficient officers, but whether the influence of the Crown should be increased in parliament by the admission of two ministers instead of one to seats in that House. Such a question ought not to be hastily decided, and he should therefore object to making
130Mr. Maberly
 said, that the hon. member for Abingdon seemed to imagine that the most important part of the subject was that which related to the admission of two officers of the Crown instead of one to seats in that House. But surely, if that question was to be agitated, the proposed committee was not the place in which it should be discussed. The amendment ought not to be introduced into this discussion, as the two offices were not necessarily connected with each other. He did not think it followed, because ministers declined to mix up these two questions, which were in their nature so distinct, that therefore they intended to refuse inquiry altogether. He thought the amendment of the hon. member for Aberdeen irrelevant, and should therefore oppose it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
131 said, that the difficulty which the right hon. gentleman suggested arose entirely from the act of the ministers themselves. They had united the two offices, and now they proposed to attach a salary to one of the offices, while they made no promise whatever regarding the other. Nothing gave him greater pain than to vote against the resolution for granting compensation to the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade; but the shape in which that resolution was put, made it impossible for him to consent to it. There was a strong feeling in the public mind, that the talents and exertions of the right hon. gentleman were fully intitled to compensation, and ministers had availed themselves of that feeling, to carry that which he could not designate otherwise than as a job—almost as decided' and bad a job as had ever been attempted [hear, hear!]. He trusted, however, that it would not be allowed to pass unopposed, but that it would be watched with the utmost attention through every stage of its progress, that the public might see, that while the members of the Opposition were ready to give every fair compensation to talent and exertion, they were: determined to protect the purity of their grants, and to effect every possible reduction. The office of Treasurer of the Navy had been spoken of as one of responsibility; but, from a question which, in the course of this discussion had been put and: answered, it was evident that no personal I responsibility whatever was attached to the Treasurer of the Navy, in respect of
131Mr. Baring
l115llll114l expressed a wish that the vote before the committee should pass unanimously, in order to mark the sense which was entertained on all sides, of the great ability with which the right hon. gentleman had discharged the important duties of his office. It was agreed on all hands that the sum of 5,000l115llll114lMr. Tierney
 said, he was favourable to the proposition so far as it went to benefit the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade; but he must object to the measure with which it was accompanied.Mr. Curwen
lll128 was speaking on the amendment which he had proposed on the preceding evening. He said he had been induced to withdraw that amendment, in order to afford to ministers a space of twenty-four hours, to reflect upon what they must see was the unanimous opinion of the House. He had hoped that his withdrawing that amendment would have induced them to adopt the alteration which it recommended; and, although he regretted to find that it had not produced that effect, he was more convinced than ever that the course he had suggested was the proper one to pursue. He was sorry to see neither the right hon. Secretary for the Foreign Department, nor the right hon. member for Knaresborough
lll128Mr. Hume
 said, he wished, before the Speaker left the chair, that the chancellor of the Exchequer would inform the House, whether it was his intention to add fresh burthens to the country; or how he meant to provide for the proposed increase of salary? If a gentleman was going to launch a new carriage, he ought, in prudence, first to ask himself how he meant to pay for it. The right hon. gentleman was increasing the expense of all the public departments at a time when economy was essentially necessary. How was the additional salary of the President of the Board of Trade to be provided for? Was any sinecure office to be abolished? Did the chancellor of the Exchequer mean to propose that the office of Treasurer of the Navy should be done away with? [Here an hon. member near Mr. Hume suggested to him, that the additional salary might be supplied from the income of the bishopric of Durham.] Well, he had no objection; there were ample funds in that quarter.Mr. Hume
l109"That the population of the different islands of Scilly amounts in the aggregate to nearly three thousand souls; that the greater part of the inhabitants of Scilly have long been exposed to severe distress, (which at the present time is frightfully increased), arising generally from the want of employment, and particularly from the very peculiar circumstances Under which the islands are held from the Crown, whence result the absence of any due form of civil government and administration of the laws; the evils to public morals occasioned by such want of government, and the misery inevitably attendant on the deficiency of labour, and of parochial or other funds for the relief of the indigent and helpless; that about seven years since, when the cry of the numerous starving families of the different islands had made itself heard throughout the parent isle, a large subscription, aided by a considerable grant from his majesty's government, was raised in England for the relief of the sufferers, and for providing them with permanent employ; and had that subscription been judiciously expended, it would have gone far to prevent the possibility of the recurrence of extreme distress, but that, unhappily, no solid and permanent benefit has been received by any class of persons on the islands from that or any other source, nor are the petitioners aware that any public
l109 presented a Petition from the Inhabitants of the Scilly Islands, setting forth,l109"That the population of the different islands of Scilly amounts in the aggregate to nearly three thousand souls; that the greater part of the inhabitants of Scilly have long been exposed to severe distress, (which at the present time is frightfully increased), arising generally from the want of employment, and particularly from the very peculiar circumstances Under which the islands are held from the Crown, whence result the absence of any due form of civil government and administration of the laws; the evils to public morals occasioned by such want of government, and the misery inevitably attendant on the deficiency of labour, and of parochial or other funds for the relief of the indigent and helpless; that about seven years since, when the cry of the numerous starving families of the different islands had made itself heard throughout the parent isle, a large subscription, aided by a considerable grant from his majesty's government, was raised in England for the relief of the sufferers, and for providing them with permanent employ; and had that subscription been judiciously expended, it would have gone far to prevent the possibility of the recurrence of extreme distress, but that, unhappily, no solid and permanent benefit has been received by any class of persons on the islands from that or any other source, nor are the petitioners aware that any public
l109Mr. Hume
 complained that the bill, as it now stood, did not sufficiently define the powers of the judges in India to select native subjects to sit upon juries. This would be considered a great evil by all who reflected that the prejudices of the Europeans in India had been carried to such a height, that there had been a declaration made by some of that class, that they never would convict any white man of murder, if his victim were a black. He wished to see the practice established of composing juries of an equal number of Europeans and natives, in cases where the natives were the objects of trial; and he hoped that the president of the Board of Controul would consent to a provision in the present bill, that the judges should report to this country their practice upon the selection of natives upon juries.Mr. Hume
 said, he should not have risen, but to answer the observation of an hon. gentleman, that none but the members of government said a word in favour of the proposed measure. Now he, for one, begged leave to say, that he concurred in opinion with every one who had spoken upon the subject of the merits of the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, and the propriety of attaching a more adequate salary to his office. He also begged leave to say, that he should vote most conscientiously for the separation of the two offices. He thought that separation ought to have taken place sooner; but he did not feel the less disposed to give it his support now that it had been proposed.Mr. R. Martin
129l said, that if it had been necessary, he should have been ready to second this amendment, which seemed to him exactly to point out what ought to be done. He much regretted this discussion, which he thought might have been avoided; and he could not help declaring that, in his opinion, the House had been placed in a cruel situation by the conduct of ministers. He fully agreed, that the duties of the President of the Board of Trade were efficiently and honourably discharged; and he believed there was not the slightest difference of opinion as to the propriety of granting the sum of 5,000129lMr. T. Wilson
 observed, that the money was lost by no fault of his right hon. friend.Mr. Huskisson
118117116 said, that in the peculiar situation in which he was placed, it could not be expected that he should offer any opinion as to the amount of compensation which should be given to the holder of the offices which he had the honour to fill. Upon that point, therefore, he would offer no remark. He rose thus early to express to the committee his grateful feeling at the very kind sense which hon. members had been pleased to express of the manner in which he had discharged his public duties, and to say that he would humbly endeavour so to discharge them as to deserve in some degree the approbation he had received. He also was relieved from the necessity of saying any thing relative to what some gentlemen called an useless office, the treasurership of the Navy. After what had been stated by his right hon. friend near him, and by the right hon. gentleman opposite, it was scarcely necessary to add, that the business of that department had very considerably increased, as well as the importance of the duties connected with it, since the transfer to it of the management of seamen's wills. It was quite erroneous to suppose that the business of that office was a mere matter of paying money. So far from that, the Treasurer of the Navy was called on to exercise his discretion in the instance of every demand made on him for money. He was obliged to sift the grounds of each claim, and to decide on the merits of the applicant. With so many branches of public duty to be performed the Bank could not be expected to execute them, or to exercise any discretion on the different cases submitted to the consideration of whoever might be placed in the super-
118117116Mr. Huskisson
ll127l said, that he felt confident the committee would be disposed to hear from him a few observations on the nature and duties of the vice-treasurer's office, which he had the honour of holding. That office hsd been so particularly alluded to by the hon. member for Calne, and the necessity of it called in question a short time ago by the hon. member for Montrose, that without interrupting the course of the present debate he begged leave to observe, that he was most anxious for an inquiry into the nature and extent of the duties of his office, and the efficiency with which they were performed; and he would venture to affirm that they were amongst the most important of those not attached to a cabinet situation. In 1816, the office 6f vice-treasurer was established, when the Exchequers of the two countries were consolidated and united, with a salary of 2,000ll127lSir George Hill
121 contended, that the treasurership of the Navy was no sinecure. It could be no sinecure, where seven
121Sir Isaac Coffin
 admitted, that the great servants of the Crown ought to be fully remunerated, and that no parsimony could be more injudicious, than to reduce their salaries below what their talents and duties merited. A thousand a year might be too little for the Treasurer of the Navy; but, if the amount were increased, it ought to be understood that the occupant of the place should not also have a seat in parliament. He did not wish to vote against the resolution in favour of the President of the Board of Trade, but he might be reduced to that alternative, if the latter part of the question was forcedon in connection with it.Sir M. W. Ridley
l recommended the adoption of one of two courses—either to unite the treasurership of the Navy with the office of President of the Board of Trade, giving an additional sum of 2,000lSir John Newport
136135l134 said, he would take that opportunity, before the report was brought up, to enter his protest against this proceeding, and to express his astonishment, that his majesty's ministers should have chosen that very peculiar time for proposing one of the most uncalled-for acts that could be conceived—that of making an unnecessary addition to the burthens of the country, and to the number of placemen and pensioners now sitting in the House of Commons. Every gentleman must recollect what had fallen from the chancellor of the Exchequer in the speech which he had delivered upon introducing the budget a few weeks ago. He had declared how much he disliked the patronage which, as a minister of the Crown, was intrusted to his hands. He had talked of that, patronage in a very proper manner, when he designated it as "paltry patronage," and assured the House that he wished to get rid of it. This was what the right hon. gentleman professed; but the question was, what did he do? Why, in the teeth of his profession, he came down to the House, and asked, as a matter of course, that they would split one placeman into two, and thus make a considerable addition to the already too powerful patronage of the Crown. He did not, on this, or on any other occasion, wish to attach a fanciful importance to any question. He did not suppose that one additional placemn would ruin the constitution, unless it were much deteriorated before; but he had a right to call on the chancellor of the Exchequer to assign his reasons for dividing one place into two. He knew that some of the poorer bishops were allowed to hold other offices, to make up for the deficiency of their annual revenue, Thus the bishop of Bristol had been suffered to retain the mastership of Trinity college, Cambridge, on account of the smallness of his income. But, did any one ever hear of a proposal to remunerate that bishop, by granting him the full extent of his income for performing the duties of one office, while a second person was employed to do the duties of the other; thus employing two individuals to execute that which had previously been very well done by one? The onus of proving the necessity of this proceeding retted with his majesty's ministers. All that he and his friends had to do was to
136135l134Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer had got much praise, and acquired considerable popularity, in consequence of his repeated declarations in favour of economy, and the anxiety he had shown to lighten the burthens of the country: but, on the present occasion, his principles and his practice appeared to be at variance. He strongly objected to this measure, because he conceived that ministerial influence in that House was more than sufficient at present. The ministerial benches were amply supplied with individuals holding pensions from the Crown. That House ought to be considered a constitutional check on the Crown; but how could that check exist, if they were every day adding to its influence?Lord Glenorchy
llllll144143142141llll140lll139llll138137 said, that on a question which had excited so much personal feeling, he was very anxious before the House came to a vote, to state, in as few words and as clearly as he could, his own individual view of the subject. Nothing, he thought, could more decidedly prove the spirit of fairness which actuated him, than by assuring the hon. gentleman who opposed the bringing up of the report, that he would take no advantage whatever of the course which he had pursued; but he would view his opposition merely as an obstruction to a grant which he would not dislike, if proposed in some other manner. The hon. member had demanded two or three times, "Why do you bring forward
llllll144143142141llll140lll139llll138137Mr. Secretary Canning
ll148llll147146ll145 protested, that, in the whole course of his parliamentary experience, he had never heard a speech which astonished him more than that of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. Positively, any body who had attended to his reasoning must have thought that the whole struggle in this debate—the whole object of every gentleman on the opposition side of the House was, to abolish the office of Treasurer of the Navy altogether; and that the only difficulty with them was, as to the shortest way in which that object could be accomplished. But could any thing be more wide of the fact? Nobody had proposed, nobody had dreamt
ll148llll147146ll145Mr. Tierney
 expressed his regret that the smallness of the majority would prevent him from persevering in the course which, as a matter of principle, he had conscientiously supported; but which, as a matter of expediency, he now felt himself bound, under all the circumstances of the case, to abandon. The expression of opinion had, undoubtedly, been very strong, and his majesty's government would not further press the measure. As it seemed to be the wish of the House, they would consent to the union of the ancient office of the Treasurer of the Navy with that of the President of the Board of Trade [hear, hear!].Mr. Secretary Canning
 rose, with heartfelt pleasure, to assure his majesty's Government, that they had, by this act, justly earned the approbation of "his majesty's Opposition" [a laugh].Mr. Tierney
ll150 said,
ll150The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 seconded the amendment, which he had intended to move himself, if the right hon. gentleman had not anticipated him.Sir M. W. Ridley
 hoped, that in the general satisfaction he might be allowed to offer a few words. He was happy to find that the ministers had been obliged to abandon their original proposal, and he called upon the opposition to take courage from the circumstance. If they did their duty much might be done in the way of reduction before the present parliament would close its labours.Mr. Hume
169168167166165164 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill "to amend and alter the Representation of the city of Edinburgh." He observed, that before he engaged in this cause, he had given the subject his most anxious attention, and had satisfied himself of the reality and magnitude of the evils, and of the facility with which a remedy might be applied to them. When he formerly presented a petition from Edinburgh in favour of an alteration in the representation, be had entered into a detail of all that related to the composition of that small body called the town council. The population of Edinburgh was above 100,000, and the electors of a representative for this population were only thirty-three, nineteen of whom were actually chosen by their predecessors, and would in their turn appoint their successors. The object in view had been met by general arguments and fears as to remote consequences, to reply to which he would now address himself. The main argument relied upon was this:— that under the pretence of seeking a fair and free representation for Edinburgh, the real purpose was, to obtain a substantial parliamentary reform; and that if the change were made with regard to Edinburgh, it ought also to be extended to Glasgow, Aberdeen, and other places. He fairly admitted that his view was, that reform in Scotland ought not to be
169168167166165164Mr. Abercromby
175 said, that he also was disposed to be very brief in his remarks on the question before the House. Indeed, lengthened observations were unnecessary on this occasion. The question was short and simple; and in the few words which he had to say on it, he would address himself rather to the English members, than to those who represented Scotland. The simple question was, what was the nature of the constitution of that
175Sir R. Fergusson
179178177176 said, that he rose with some difficulty on this occasion, from a feeling that his interposition in the debate might be considered an interference with the more peculiar duties of the Scotch members. When this subject was before the House on a former occasion, he had not taken any part in the debate, not because he felt at all indifferent to the petition of so enlightened and respectable a portion of the people, but from an apprehension, that, as the case of the citizens of Edinburgh was peculiar, and brought on as a separate question, and not connected with the principle of general parliamentary reform, there might be an unwillingness on their part for his advocacy; that they might say "non tali auxilio" to any proffer of his weak support. Nor did he think that he should have arisen even on the present occasion, but for the direct personal appeal made to Englishmen by his hon. and gallant friend who spoke last, The zeal and earnestness with which the first mention of this motion was opposed by the right hon. member for Edinburgh afforded a decided argument in its favour, The right hon. member had given proof of what a zealous member ought to be who had an interest to defend, and what perhaps the people of Edinburgh might expect on their behalf had they the power to choose a representative. The system of representation, as it was called, which his hon. and learned friend's motion had introduced to the notice of the House, was one of the most scandalous and unblushing exclusions of the right of the
179178177176Sir Francis Burdett
 was of opinion that no case had been made out to interfere with the chartered rights of the city of Edinburgh. The question before the House must be met, not as affecting the city of Edinburgh alone, but as involving, according to the admission of the hon. baronet who had just sat down, the whole principle of parliamentary reform in its widest sense.Mr. Keith Douglas
l.181 after having most positively disclaimed the collusion which had been imputed to him by the noble lord, said he wished this to be treated as a British, and not merely as a Scottish subject. If a reform in the representation was to be attempted, he thought it would be but fair that the trial should extend to the whole empire; and not be confined merely to one of the weaker parts of it; for, unless it was for the purpose of effecting some such general reform, he could not discover on what principle the charter of a borough was to be taken from it, merely because it was imagined that its elective franchise might be placed in better hands. Where the elective franchise had been interfered with in England, it had always been on account of some corruption, or very improper conduct, in the parties who had the exercise of it; but against the borough of Edinburgh no misconduct had been, no misconduct could be, alleged. Its proceedings had been closely examined into, and had passed through a most severe ordeal; and on that occasion the conduct of this borough had been found perfectly fair and unexceptionable. The persons who exercised the elective franchise in it had done much for Edinburgh; they had acted most beneficially and liberally towards it. The question of general parliamentary reform would shortly be before the House, when the case of this borough might be discussed along with the rest; for there was nothing, either in its constitution or its conduct, which rendered it necessary that this borough should be singled out, and sacrificed as a special victim to reform. Indeed, he believed electors in this borough were less exceptionable than the electors of any other
l.181The Lord-Advocate,
186185184183182 said, he would not allude to the concluding part of the noble lord's speech, further than to observe Union, that he did not think the noble lord had given full attention to the positive assertions of the lord-advocate and the hon. member who followed him. They had both of them most decidedly disclaimed that there was any collusion between them; and in a matter of this kind, which rested entirely within the breasts of two individuals, to what other tribunal could an appeal be made but to their honour? In proceeding to the question before them, he answered the call which had been made upon him, certainly with very great politeness, by the hon. baronet and the noble lord; but he was quite at a loss to discover the grounds on which it was expected that he should give his vote in favour of the present motion,—whether he looked upon it as a question relating to a reform in this borough in particular, or to parliamentary reform in general. He had been complimented by the hon. baronet for a sentiment which he might, in common
186185184183182Mr. Secretary Canning
188187 commenced his speech with calling the attention of the House to the extraordinary doctrine which had just been laid down by the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs. The right hon. gentleman had told them, that though a popular representation was good for the whole of the united kingdom, it was still good for a part of it, that some portion of its representation should not be conducted upon popular principles, and that part of the kingdom he subsequently admitted to be Scotland. Now, he asked the House whether, by this species of defence, the right hon. gentleman had not given them a character of Scotch representation which no Scotchman would be glad to recognize. Surely the right hon. gentleman had that evening held up to the public view those shameful parts of the British constitution, which, according to the opinion of Mr. Burke, ought rather to be slurred over than confessed. The right hon. gentleman had likewise taunted the members on his side of the House, with not bring-
188187Mr. Hobhouse
190189 in reply, commented
190189Mr. Abercromby,
 said, that when it was recollected that he had offered no opposition to the hon. member's former motion, the House would be convinced that he had no wish to withhold any information that might be necessary; and he could not but think that the hon. member made rather an ungracious return for the facility with which he had obtained the documents he before required. The hon. member now wished the House to call upon the dean and chapter of Westminster, to show the deeds by which they held the property that had been for so many years in their possession. He asked also for returns of the lands, houses, &c. appropriated to the maintenance of the minor canons; for a copy of the grant of 1697 to the choir, on condition that, receiving the benefits of the exhibition of the monuments, they should keep them clean; for an account of allowances and income received by minor canons, &c, and in whose possession were the lands, houses, &c. from which the same were derived.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that much inconvenience would result from the indiscriminate admission into the Abbey of the public at all times. The monuments would be exposed to every kind of mutilation and injury. From the earliest periods it had been found necessary to take measures to guard against this evil. Previous to the Commonwealth such measures had been adopted. In every church the incumbent had a right to a fee for the erection of a monument. And with regard to public monuments, there was undoubtedly a right to tax the public to a certain extent for the purpose of preserving them, and keeping them in repair. It was well known that a more honourable as well as a more benevolent man than the present dean of Westminster did not exist; and that he was wholly incapable of giving his support to any system justly deserving of reprehension. On numerous occasions that excellent person had indulged, from his private purse, in acts of the greatest liberality and generosity.Mr. Ashurst
200 regretted the system which had been introduced into the Abbey, but was of opinion that the House could not with propriety interfere. He could not see what authority they possessed for doing so. He believed it to be the right of every dean and chapter to 6hut up their church, except during the hours of divine service. He allowed, however, that the mode in which the public had of late years been shut out of the Abbey was much to be lamented. He allowed that it was an injudicious use of the power possessed by the dean and chapter; but he did not think that the House had any authority to interfere. If, for instance, a road were to be improperly stopped up, could the House interfere? By no means. Recourse for redress must be had to a court of law. If such a motion as the present were
200Mr. Wynn
 could see no objection to the production of the paper in question. The House might afterwards determine whether or not to proceed further. He thought the tone of the answer made by the dean and chapter unjustifiably high. They had no right to tell that House, that it intended some improper aggression on their property.Mr. Baring
 seeing a difference between this motion and the former one, did not intend to oppose it. He begged to be understood, that, in contending for the right of the dean and chapter to exclude or admit, he did not vindicate the amount of their charges. The former motion could not be enforced; and it was not wise to commit the House to a measure in which they might not succeed. He regretted exceedingly the manner in which the return already ordered had been made. It would have been much better, if the dean and chapter had complied simply with the order, which was so worded as not to excite any unpleasant feelings. He wished, however, that the hon. member would postpone his motion, in order to afford an opportunity of ascertaining whether the grant was, or was not from the Crown. He had, in the first instance, conceived it to be a grant from the Crown to the dean and chapter, on the condition of keeping the monuments clean.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he conceived that the disclaimer of the lord-advocate and the hon. member had left the matter pretty near as it was before.Lord A. Hamilton
180 said, that the only argument that had been offered against this motion was, that it was contrary to the provisions of the Union; but this, in fact, was no argument at all, and could not be relied upon as a principle by which the opinion of the House should be governed. Had nothing occurred since the Union of Scotland to call for the present bill? Had not the Union with Ireland materially altered the question? The noble lord proceeded to combat the arguments which had been advanced against the motion, and called upon the House to consider that it affected, in the most material manner, the rights and immunities of the inhabitants of Edinburgh, ninety-nine in a hundred of whom were
180Lord A. Hamilton
 having moved the order of the day for going into a committee on this bill,Lord John Russell
174173 rose to protest against the doctrine which he had heard laid down, that the question before the House did not involve that of general reform; seeing that when once the safeguards, which protected the ancient rights and privileges of boroughs, were broken down, it would be impossible to say where the work of innovation was to stop. As a principle, he begged to deny that the House ought to interfere with the rights and privileges of any corporation, except in cases where those rights had been abused by the great body of those by whom they were held. In England no interference with the rights of boroughs was ever attempted by parliament, except in such cases; and it required that the clearest proofs should be given of venality, before it removed the right of election. This was the principle adopted in the recent transfer of the right of electing two members from Grampound to the
174173Sir George Clarke
 wished the hon. member would postpone his motion, on the understanding that, if it turned out upon inquiry to be a grant from the Crown, no opposition would be made to the production of the document. If the grant really were from the dean and chapter, he should certainly object to its being produced.Mr. Canning
 rose for the purpose of confirming the assertion of the lord-advocate, disclaiming the collusion which had been imputed with regard to the bill which had been brought in on this subject on a former occasion.Mr. H. Drummond
 merely rose to suggest, that the charter required was most probably either to be found at the Tower or elsewhere amongst the public records; and therefore the calling for private title was an objection that could not be supported. He had no wish to trench on the rights of private property, and still less to cause any diminution of the incomes of the minor canons; but he considered the free ingress of the public to Westminster Abbey to be a national object; and, as such, felt himself bound to support the motion.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, that the bill contained but there effective clauses, to every one of which he objected, and should therefore oppose its going into a committee.Mr. Hudson Gurney
172***171 said, that the state of the case was this: that thirty-three persons, out of a population of more than 100,000, returned the member to serve in parliament for the whole of that population. The right hon. member who spoke last contended, that it would be a great injustice to deprive these thirty-three persons of their vested right so to return the member of parliament for the city of Edinburgh. But the right hon. member seemed to have forgotten, that this was not a right for their own private benefit and advantage, but a trust confided to them for the benefit of the public. In other words, if they held a private right, it resolved itself into a public trust. It was not contrary to the articles of Union to inquire into, and modify the exercise of such a right. The very speech of lord Hardwicke to which the hon. gentleman had referred, showed the contrary. "The general provision of that treaty is, that the laws of Scotland shall continue in full force, as before the treaty, but alterable by the parliament of Great Britain; with this difference between the
172***171Mr. J. P. Grant
193192 rose to propose the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the charter granted to the Dean and Chapter of Westminster. He observed, that the House were already in possession of some returns regarding the fees received for the exhibition of the monuments in the abbey, and of the appropriation of those fees; which, it seemed, were devoted to the maintenance of the minor canons and choir. The returns for which he
193192Mr. Hume
 said, he had not made any such motion.Mr. Hume
 said, that he had as yet only moved for a copy of the charter of queen Elizabeth.Mr. Hume
194 believed he was allowed to say whether a particular motion was his or not; and if he said the motion was not
194Mr. Hume
 said, that certainly he did not mean to withdraw any of them.Mr. Hume
163162161160159l.l.158 rose to present a petition from Thomas Edwards, a doctor of laws, and a magistrate for the county of Surrey, on the subject of the present Licensing System; a subject that must be viewed by all as one of very great importance. The petitioner had selected the present period, because the hon. member for Oxford, had introduced a bill respecting the licensing system; and he hoped that the suggestions contained in his petition would not be disregarded,
163162161160159l.l.158Mr. Hume
 objected to withdraw his motion. The public money had been voted for the object of cleaning and repairing the monuments, and the public had a right to know how it had been applied.Mr. Hume
 expressed his dissent from the proceedings of the House. He said, that whatever might be the differences of opinion with respect to the technical propriety or impropriety of granting this or that document, it was the opinion of every part of the House, that the present system of managing the cathedral, with respect to the admission of the public, was most reprehensible. This was evidently the undivided sentiment within the House; and he need scarcely add, that in this, as in many other instances, the sentiment of the public had preceded that of the House of Commons. He would withdraw his other motions; but it was his intention to propose, on a future day, a motion expressive of the sense of the House on the extraordinary conduct of the dean and chapter.Mr. Hume
l.l. observed, that the substance of his notice was entered correctly, but not the words; and he therefore contended, that he was not bound by the words which had been inserted. His object in calling for these papers was to get rid of an imposition, by which, in one year 2,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 declared that the substance, but not the form, of his intended motions had been preserved in the Order-book; and he must say, that he was surprised at the presuming and extraordinary manner in which he had been remarked on by the right hon. gentleman opposite [cries of "order, order!"].Mr. Hume
 answered, that it was in explanation.Mr. Hume
 said, that he really did not know what the right hon. gentleman intended by his distinction.Mr. Hume
 said, there could exist no doubt that it was a grant from the dean and chapter to the choir.Mr. Hume
 then moved, "That there be laid before this House, Copy of the Grant made to the Choir of Westminster in 1697, on the conditions 'that receiving the benefits from the exhibition of the Monuments, they should keep the Monuments always clean.'"Mr. Hume
202 advised his hon. friend neither to postpone nor to withdraw his motion, as there was quite enough before the House to enable them to come to a vote upon the question. Indeed he was of opinion that, if the money was not a grant immediately from the Crown to the dean and chapter, there was the greater reason for an inquiry into the causes why the delegated trust had been neglected. He considered it to be extremely ungracious in the right hon. Secretary, in a matter of great public importance, to thrust the onus of proving a public right on any individual, by his remedy in a court of law. He could inform the House, that the boasted remedy of a court of law was not always very expeditious, very certain, or very cheap. The same answer might be given in many other cases. In cases of charities, for instance. In applications to the House against any gross and afflicting abuse of a public charity, a minister might say, "Go and file a bill in the court of Chancery; I assure you, the Chancery-court is a court of the greatest purity, and it possesses ample powers;" and thus an individual might be five-and-twenty or thirty years obtaining redress, which it was the duty of the House to grant him
202Mr. Denman
170 rose to oppose the proposition, the object of which was, he said, nothing less than to destroy the existing vested rights of the magistrates of Edinburgh. He was not surprised that the hon. and learned gentleman should have been chosen as the champion of such a proposition, since he had before so ably advocated the plan; and also because he was himself so splendid an instance of the power of popular and independent election. In what shape did this proposition come before the House; and with what views? The design which it openly manifested was, to beat down the charters, and extinguish the existing rights which had lasted for ages. The hon. and learned gentleman had contended, that the prosperity of Edinburgh had not arisen from the good conduct of the magistrates; but that that city had flourished in spite of their conduct. There he was at issue with him; and would contend that the prosperity of Edinburgh—he did not mean to confine himself merely to streets and squares, but the prosperity of Edinburgh as it consisted in the wealth and comfort and flourishing condition of the people— did arise from the good conduct of the magistrates and town council. Was there any charge against the magistrates? Not a word. No serious charges of corruption could be proved. A noble lord had, on a former occasion, moved for a committee to inquire into the state of the burghs, and when called upon to name his committee, the noble lord named almost all of them from his own side. A ship load of books and papers had been sent for; and what was the result? Was any corruption dis-
170Mr. William Dundas
157156 said, the House had received a great number of petitions, praying that no alteration should be made in the currency of Scotland, and it now became his duty to present one of a different description. The petition which he held in his hand pointed out the great benefit which Scotland would derive, if the same system, with respect to the currency, which prevailed in England, were applied to the former country. It was not necessary, nor would it be regular, to enter at present into the argument of the petitioners, which appeared to him to be very forcible. They particularly applied them-
157156Mr. Huskisson
195 then contended, that the hon. member had no right to call him disorderly, for alluding to those motions which stood upon the books. He observed, that the rights of the dean and chapter of Westminster did not differ from those of any other dean and chapter. The public had erected monuments in the abbey, which the dean and chapter possessed by a grant from the Crown; but though these monuments had been erected at the expense of the public, they had not paid the dean and chapter for the space which these monuments occupied, nor had they specified that the rights of the dean and chapter of Westminster should be different from those of other ecclesiastical bodies, under similar circumstances. If the hon. member objected to the payment of those fees which were demanded for the exhibition of these monuments, let him refuse payment, and try with the dean and chapter their right of demanding them; but let him not call on that House for the production of documents, which he might use as evidence in resisting their demand before another tribunal. The hon. member had represented, that the minor canons claimed a right to something which the dean and chapter now appropriated to themselves. It appeared then, that there was a disputed claim among these persons; and, was it for parliament, overwhelmed as they were with business, to interfere in their disputes? He thought not. The hon. member had called for papers which were, in fact, the titles of
195Mr. Peel
 said, that if he had been mistaken in referring to the printed orders, he would endeavour to be more regular, by reading from the manuscript authority entered in the books of the House. On doing so, however, he found that the orders had been faithfully copied from thence; and though the hon. member had only read the first part of his motion, yet he had not said that he would abstain from proposing the rest; on the contrary, he had said that he should follow it up with others. He did not mean to say that the hon. member was bound to propose all the parts of the motion which he had entered on the books; but certainly it must be taken for granted that he meant to move them, since he expressly stated that he did not intend to withdraw them.Mr. Peel
 said, that the hon. member had torn off the paper which contained that motion from another paper, which consisted, as he supposed, of the others; and that if the hon. member was not moving for these returns at that moment, it was his intention to follow up the present motion by those to which he had just alluded; and indeed, at the instant that the hon. member tore off the first part of his motion, he had declared his intention of bringing forward others connected with it.Mr. Peel
 said, he had read from the orders of the House.Mr. Peel
 said, that the first motion was for a copy of the charter of queen Elizabeth to the dean and chapter, as evidence of their title and property, and of their general right of regulating the cathedral: To this he should object, on principle. The next motion was for a copy of the grant of 1697. He had understood that that was a distinct grant from the Crown, to levy a fee from every person seeing the monuments, upon the condition of the dean and chapter keeping them clean; and finding that they had been relieved of this charge by a grant of public money, he thought this made a very distinct case, and entitled the public to inquire how the matter stood. If the grant was from the Crown, he was ready to acquiesce in the motion; but he wished the hon. member to postpone the debate, in order to give an opportunity for inquiry.Mr. Peel
 observed, that in that case the remarks of the hon. member were certainly out of order, since no gentleman, when speaking only in explanation, was at liberty to make remarks on a preceding speaker. He would take that opportunity of saying, that the practice of giving notices of motions, though not a matter of right, was a practice which had grown up and been established, on account of its usefulness, which consisted in this, that it afforded to other members a knowledge of what was intended to be brought forward for discussion. If any irregularity crept into these notices, who was to blame? Certainly the hon. member who gave them. The hon. member for Aberdeen should not be surprised that he had alluded to this circumstance, since there was no one who gave more notices of motions than that hon. member. If at any time there was any error in the entry of the clerks, he trusted that the hon. member would state it, that it might be immediately corrected.The Speaker
 requested to know whether what the hon. member was about to state was in reply or explanation?The Speaker
198197 said, he had hoped that the returns moved for would have been granted without hesitation. There was no ground whatever for the exactions of the dean and chapter of Westminster, and their practice in this respect had not even the plea of antiquity to recommend it; because it was an infringement of which many hon. gentlemen in that House had seen the beginning. He had been educated at Westminster school, and he knew (having passed through it hundreds of times in every year) that there was a passage from the cloisters through Poets' corner into that part of Westminster. At the period to which he alluded the lower part of Westminster-abbey was open daily; and this practice he thought was an extremely useful one. It was true that admission might still be obtained upon payment, but it was by no means the same thing to be escorted by an impertinent and talkative verger, as it would be to spend a solitary hour there on a rainy day, contemplating the monuments of the illustrious persons whose fame was perpetuated there, and thus acquiring a knowledge of the history of the country. To what purpose had the national money been spent, but to hand down to posterity, by means of those monuments, the achievements of the heroes to whose memory
198197Sir J. Wrottesley
199 allowed, that if it could be shown that from the earliest times, the dean and chapter of Westminster had exercised the right of excluding from the Abbey, there might be some pretext for declining the proposed inquiry; but when it was well known that from a large part of the Abbey the public had been shut out only in late times, he was at a loss to conceive on what principle resistance could be made to a motion, calling on the dean and chapter to account for their conduct. It was said, that the fees collected from visitors to the Abbey went to
199Sir J. Newport
223222221220 begged leave to claim the
223222221220Mr. Baring
l.219
l.219Mr. Grenfell
234 said, that the hon, member for Dover had favoured them with a sermon against popery, with which the petition had nothing to do. It only prayed for a portion of the public money for the purposes of educating the people. He could not therefore conceive why the hon. member should have travelled so far out of his way. The Catholic clergy required to be met by a spirit of conciliation, and if they had only the regular clergy to deal with, he had no doubt harmony would have prevailed; but a set of sectarians had crept in, and introduced such a spirit of rancour and animosity, as to prejudice the people against the Bible and those who taught its unrestricted perusal. They conceived that these persons were desirous of detaching them from their ancient faith. And was it not natural that the clergy should be roused by such attempts. The hon. member for Dover had contrasted the conduct of the Irish clergy with those of other countries, and particularly with that of Scotland? But what was the difference between the two?
234Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
238 said, it was possible the Bank directors might have come down to the House prepared to admit such alterations in the bill in the committee, as might render it operative; which, in its
238Mr. Gurney
240239 said, that he could not enter into any of the views of the hon. member, with respect to the probability of the country being deluged with paper, or to that of the new banks being managed with improvidence. He could not believe that the country would be placed in any such jeopardy, because it might be the pleasure of parliament to modify the existing Bank charter, or hereafter to decline continuing the privileges of the Bank, by putting the law on a more extended scale than that on which it now stood. It was not necessary to argue either of those questions; for the passing of the bill through its former stages sufficiently-proved that the House was desirous that some facilities should be given to the formation of banks upon a more extended scale than that which the present state of the law allowed. He could not believe, that the only safe system of banking was
240239The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that considering that the discounting of bills was a principal branch in the business of banking, and that the bill prohibited any company, consisting of more than six persons, from carrying on that business in London, or within the prescribed limits of sixty-five miles, it was his opinion that such co-partnerships were precluded the right of having an establishment in London for the purpose of discounting bills.The Attorney General
 asked, whether the operation of this clause would be to prohibit any number of country bankers from applying capital which they had in the hands of their London agent in discounting bills.Mr. P. Grenfell
 said, that, as he understood, the principal business of a banker consisted in discounting bills, he certainly thought that the clause, as it now stood, went to prevent any number of bankers, exceeding six, from discounting bills in London.The Attorney General
 said, that that being the case, this clause must have the effect of preventing the formation of large joint-Stock companies.Mr. P. Grenfell
 said, that a similar clause was inserted in the Irish Banking act, and it was only on the insertion of such a clause that the Bank of England consented to waive the privileges of its charter. He could not undertake to answer for the exact legal effect of the words of the clause; but if there was any obscurity in the words, or if there was any thing contained in them which would practically prevent the formation of these co-partnerships, such was not the intention either of the Bank or the government; and these words might be so altered as to remove the objection entertained against the clause. As to the attack which the learned gentleman had made upon the bill, it was directed against the measure generally, and not against this clause. If the learned gentleman had read the correspondence between the Bank and government he would have seen that the substance of this clause had been insisted upon by the Bank.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not think that a firm consisting of less than six was prohibited by this clause; but he thought that one consisting of more than six, was prohibited.The Attorney General
 said, it had never been the intention of government, or of the Bank, to prevent joint-stock companies from applying their capital in discounting bills in London. However, if the words were so obscure as not to give to those companies the privileges which, by this bill, were intended to be granted to them, there could not be, on his part, any objection to introduce, at a future stage, such words as would give legal efficiency to the concessions made by the Bank.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, that if the word "bills" were left out, and the prohibition limited to the promissory notes of the companies, there would be no objection.Mr. Attwood
244 thought
244The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that unless gentlemen would take the trouble to read the clause, they could not understand it. The clause had been copied verbatim from an Irish act, which had been in force for some years.The Attorney General
233 said, he felt the necessity of education to the Irish poor as much as any one. There was a strong appetite for it, he was happy to say, among them; but there were two great enemies which opposed its diffusion, the priests, and those enthusiasts, who, by their mistaken
233Colonel Trench
 concurred in so much of what had fallen from the hon. member for Dover, that it was almost useless for him to say any thing upon the subject. There was no foundation for saying that there was no religion taught in the English schools. He had himself attended one for nearly eleven years, and he could not, on recollection, point out one of them in which the Scriptures did not form some part of the system of education. The masters of those schools were members of the established church, and distinguished for their piety. The system could not be presumed to have been altered since that time.Mr. G. Bankes
 said, it had long been the practice in Scotland, where the banking firms consisted of more than six partners, to draw bills upon London, and to have them discounted as often as it might be necessary. Whether this was legal or not he did not know, but he was sure it could not be done in future under this clause.Mr. Home Drummond
 said, that that answer was final as to the bill. Any banker so circumstanced must necessarily stop payment. The Bank of England itself could not assist such establishment; and the bill must necessarily be given up altogether.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 wished to direct the attention of the committee to the clause prohibiting co-partnerships "from borrowing, owing, or taking up any sum or sums upon their bills or notes within sixty-five miles from London, or at any place not exceeding the distance of sixty miles from London; and prohibiting such co-partnerships from having any house of business, or establishment as bankers in London, within the prescribed limits." He wished to ask the Attorney-general, whether these bankers, under this clause, could or could not discount and re-discount, bills through their agents in London?Mr. Hudson Gurney
l.237l.,l. said, that at the commencement of the session they had been informed, that the banking system, now liable to, and productive of, very serious evils, should be placed on an improved and solid foundation. Towards the fulfilment of that promise, nothing had been done save the introduction of this unhappy bill, which had come to them from the Lords; under which, it was next to impossible, that any banking establishment could be set on foot; and, if such were the case, it would be a public nuisance. The bill was copied from the Irish bill; and the Irish bill only-worked by the contradiction of its clauses giving opportunity for evasion. The notes of the Irish banks were not to be payable in Dublin; and they were not to draw upon Dublin for sums under 50l.237l.,l.Mr. Hudson Gurney
l.242 contended, that, although government had probably made the best bargain they could with the Bank of England, yet they had not done enough for the permanent advantage of the country. There could not be, in his opinion, any danger of over-issues, which were apprehended on the part of the country banks; because, as long as they were compelled to pay their notes in notes of the Bank of England, and those were payable in gold, there must be an effectual check upon too great an extension of credit in that way. In remarking upon the clause which prohibited the chartered banks from discounting bills or issuing notes in London, he begged to ask,
l.242Mr. J. P. Grant
 considered the bill, not as a benefit to the country, but as a positive nuisance. Under the present condition of the Bank restrictions it was impossible for the joint-stock companies to meet with success. It was not sufficient that a paper currency should be safe; it was essential that it should be issued in the most convenient manner to the public, and in every respect be made to represent all the qualities of a metallic currency. The mischief of the present bill was, that it destroyed all universality, and made the new notes to resemble the local tokens. It was impossible, under the present system, to assimilate the country notes to those of the London Bank. If they got out of their peculiar jurisdiction, the holders of them would be put to great inconvenience to get rid of them. The greatest inconvenience was now felt from these local notes. The poor who happened to hold one of them in a district in which it was not issued, were often put to the greatest inconvenience, and obliged to submit to a loss, in order to induce coachmen or travellers to convey it to where it was payable. He thought it would be much better to give up the present measure, until the expiration of the Bank charter.Mr. Monck
 addressed the committee, but in so low a tone as to be altogether inaudible.Mr. Pearse
 said, that any alteration would require great care. In order to give time for properly considering it, he thought it would be better that the chairman should report progress.Mr. Pearse
 said, that this plan had already been submitted to the Bank, and found inefficient to the end proposed. The Bank directors were anxious to adopt any measure that could put an end to forgery; but no plan had been laid before them that could effect that object. He was sorry that the hon. gentleman had let fall an expression which seemed to imply that the directors had not done their duty. When he said that the directors ought at least to endeavour to provide a better note, the inference was, that they had not already used the best means in their power for that purpose. Now, he could assert that such was not the fact. No expense had been spared in endeavouring to effect that object; but, of course, when the directors found that the plans submitted to them had not the requisite merit, they were obliged to reject them. The hon. member must be aware that commissioners had been appointed to inquire, whether any efficient plan could be devised to prevent the evil of forgery, and that a report bad been made by those gentlemen, that they could not hit upon one. The Bank had made every effort in their power to attain that end; but they found that the notes of those who came forward with plans were as easily imitable as those at present in circulation. One of the projectors had actually mistaken an imitation of his own note for an impression from his original invention.Mr. Pearse
 said, that all the petitioners asked for, was a right which every class of people ought to enjoy; namely, the right to put such books as they pleased into the hands of their children, for the purpose of educating them.Mr. J. Smith
229228 rose to present a petition from the Catholics of Ireland, assembled at an aggregate meeting, praying for a grant of money for the Education of Catholics in Ireland in their own way. The petition was signed by several thousands of persons, and, he believed, expressed the sentiments of the great body of Irish Catholics. He requested the attention of the House while he stated the object of the petition. The petitioners complained that the education of the poor in Ireland had not been sufficiently attended to since the Reformation. Before that time they had been supplied with the means of education out of the funds of the Church; and since that time some of them had been educated by means of contributions from the Catholics themselves. They complained of the conduct of the Education Commission with respect to the Catholics, but in that complaint he could hardly agree with them. That Commission had recommended, that the Protestant and Catholic children should be educated together, and the petitioners claimed, that where the Catholic children were the majority, the master should be a Catholic; and where they were the minority, that a Catholic usher should be appointed. They insisted that no books should be read by the Catholic children, except such as were approved by the Catholic bishops of Ireland; and they complained, that the House had advanced money to certain Education societies, whose real object was, not the education of the Irish poor, but their conversion to Protestantism. The House ought to be thoroughly informed as to that fact, before they voted any more of the public money in this way. That there were some societies whose real object, under pretence of education, was proselytism, he fully believed; and he was not sure that even the Kildare-street Society was wholly exempt from that imputation. Although he himself was fully convinced of the importance of teaching children to read the Scriptures, yet nothing could be more illiberal and intolerable than to compel the Catholics to read books which they did not like. He requested the attention of the House to the manner in
229228Mr. John Smith
l.230 said, that, as friends of the government, of the state, and of the protestant religion, which was strictly interwoven with the constitution, they were bound to refuse the prayer of this petition. The people of Ireland were not disinclined to reject the Bible. The priests alone prevented its reception. But for them, education would go on well in that country. They prevented
l.230Mr. Butterworth
235 vindicated himself from the attack made upon him by the hon. member for Cambridge. He denied that the conduct of the societies to which the hon. and gallant member had alluded, were in any respect injudicious or mischievous. As long as the great mass of the people of Ireland were allowed to remain in ignorance, the Roman Catholics were quiet, for ignorance best suited their purposes; but the moment it was attempted to give education to them, the priests rose up to oppose it, and in their efforts to follow up that opposition, they were the cause of all the mischiefs that occurred ! in Ireland. They intruded themselves into Bible meetings to which they were not invited, and were the occasion of much disturbance, on some occasions; attended with no little danger to the pro-
235Mr. Butterworth
 said, he had never seen such a mass of absurdity as this bill presented. It was said to be an Irish act; and he could believe it from the number of absurdities it contained. He had been often charged with committing blunders in the House, and perhaps he might have done so; but if ever he could be justly accused of such absurdities as were contained in this bill, upon which the whole strength of the administration had been employed for a considerable period, he was content that the right hon. gentleman should set him down for a fool.Mr. Hume
 thought, that the greater the number of partners in banks, the less security there would be for the respectability of their character, or the solvency of their circumstances. He considered the present bill objectionable in every point of view.Mr. Leycester
 said, that nothing could be less satisfactory than the shape ilk which this measure came before the House. It had been promised, in the beginning of the session, that it would be the result of the wisdom of parliament; but, after it had passed through the Lords, and had been discussed, of course, in the cabinet, it contained provisions which it was impossible to understand or agree to. He thought, therefore, that the shortest way of disposing of it, as well as the most satisfactory, would be to throw it out at once.Mr. Denman
243 said, there was not a
243Mr. Denman
 was surprised to hear the hon. Bank director say, that private banks were preferable to the Bank of England. One great objection with him to the present measure was, that it gave a monopoly of local circulation to the Bank of England; as its branch banks would be established free from the difficulties which the joint-stock banks would have to contend with. He recommended that publicity should be given to the amount of local issues of paper.Mr. Spring Rice
 concurred in some respects with the sentiments of the hon mover, and differed in others. He was willing to allow that every possible means ought to be adopted for diffusing the blessings of education among the Irish poor, and that any education, whether Catholic or otherwise, was better than none. But with respect to the question, whether the Scriptures should or should not be introduced into those mixed schools, he felt himself bound to say, that any system of education, which had for its basis the exclusion of the holy Scriptures, should meet with his most decided opposition. The Scriptures were the birthright of every one, and he could not consent to their exclusion.Mr. Carus Wilson
227226225224 corroborated the statement of the hon. member for Taunton relative to the state of the negro slaves in the island of Antigua. Of all the colonies, this had proceeded most rapidly in the amelioration of the condition of the slave population.227226225224Mr. Manning
232231 said, there was not an hon. member in that House whose religious opinions differed more widely from those of the Roman Catholics, than his own. Still, he thought that the state ought to suffer every class of persons to educate their children as they thought proper. What be wanted was, to see education, of some sort or other, diffused all over Ireland; and he would infinitely prefer seeing the Irish poor educated in the principles of the Catholic religion, even though we could never hope for
232231Mr. W, Smith
 wished to know whether this clause would have the effect of preventing a country firm of less than six from discounting bills in London.Sir M. W. Ridley
236 said, it was not his intention to have offered any observation on the petition before the House, but after what had fallen from the last speaker, he could not remain silent. The hon. member had alluded to a Bible meeting which was held in Carlow. Now, he would assert, that the circumstances mentioned by the hon. member connected with that meeting were wholly without foundation; and he was enabled to contradict them on most excellent authority— that of colonel Rochford, who presided at the meeting on the occasion. That most respectable gentleman, who was deservedly respected by all parties, had stated in his evidence before the committee on the state of Ireland, that the accounts given of the proceedings at that meeting, and which the hon. member had just repeated, were misrepresentations of the real facts. The whole originated in an alarm which was unaccountably raised in the room. A rush to the doors was the consequence, but there was not the least truth in the imputation made on the Catholics. Such was the testimony of a most respectable witness, who had been selected by both parties to act as chairman. It was false to say that the Catholic church absolutely refused the Bible to its members. Such was not one of its tenets. They merely objected to placing the Bible without note or comment in the hands of young persons and in that view they were borne out by some of the most dignified members of the church of England, who opposed the indiscriminate reading of the Bible, without the church catechism. He pro-
236Sir J. Newport
 said, there could be no doubt that it would be very inconvenient to the promoters of this new market if the bill should not pass, as they had already purchased the ground for it close to the old one; but that was no valid reason why those who held private property should be compelled to surrender their rights. He, however, wished to see the matter amicably arranged; as he was of opinion, that there ought to be an enlarged market; but, he trusted parliament would not encourage an invasion of private property, especially as there was no charge brought against the individuals who would be affected by it.Mr. Alderman Wood
 supported the prayer of the petition, and said, that it was impossible for our manufactures to compete with the commodities of other countries while food was at more than double their price. It was high time for parlialiament to turn its attention to the subject, and to take notice of the great falling-off in the supplies of grain. The difference in the quantities brought into the market in the corresponding quarters of 1825 and 1826 was as follows:—In wheat there was a difference of 57,677 quarters, being that much less in the last quarter than in the same quarter of 1825. In barley there were 79,937 quarters less; oats 20,000 quarters less; pollard, 36,000. It was quite plain that corn would by this time have reached a famine price, had it not been for the late alterations in the currency.Alderman Wood
 said, he had been misunderstood as to his intention of bringing on the question of the Corn laws. On fixing another motion of his, which stood for the 23rd of May, he had, by mistake, been represented as having put off his motion of to-morrow on the Corn laws. He wished it to be clearly understood, that it was his fixed determination to bring on the subject to-morrow.Mr. Whitmore
 concurred with the enlightened citizens of London, that it would be vain to attempt to establish principles of free trade, unless they were extended, in an equal degree, to the trade in grain. Some thought, that they ought to have begun with the corn-trade; but, for his part, he was anxious first to divest the agriculturist of the argument which existed in favour of monopoly, in the restrictions and prohibitions on foreign manufactures. Those prohibitions and restrictions were now almost wholly done away, and all articles were admitted, on payment of reasonable duties. The same principle ought to be applied to imports of grain. They were told, when the bill was passed in 1817, that the effect of the bill would be, to produce plenty at cheap rates and fixed prices. At present, trade was every where stagnant, or nearly so, and the general poverty and distress were aggravated by the danger of scarcity, and the high price of food. Nothing could be more fluctuating in price and quantity than corn had been ever since.Alderman Thompson
269 said, that the object of this bill was, to take by force the property of individuals; and, in order to put a face upon the matter, those individuals were calumniated as monopolists. That was the charge against them. Now, he suspected that the other parties were the monopolists; because, if they intended fair competition, they would leave the old Corn Exchange to compete with the new one. If this were done, he could understand what his gallant friend meant when he spoke of benefitting the public. The old proprietors only said, "Leave us as we are, and we will compete with you; but pray do not take away our property." What would the Bank of England say, if, at the end of their charter, a body of individuals declared, "We want to set up a bank to upset your monopoly; but we will not only do that, but insist on having your premises?" The Bank would make answer, "Leave us as we are. You may set up a bank in the most commodious place for the benefit of the public, and we will compete with you; let there be two banks, but leave our premises alone." This was his view of the case.
269Mr. Calcraft
274 observed upon the absence of ministers from the House at that period of the evening; then near six o'clock. Here were petitions before the House involving questions of the highest interest to the country, and there was not one minister of the Crown in his place to give any opinion or information respecting them. The House of Commons, he must say, was not accustomed to be treated
274Mr. Baring
 thought that the hon. gentlemen opposite, who had urged ministers to these experiments, saw now sufficient reason for retracing their steps. While the taxes of the country were so heavy, it was impossible we could compete with the foreigner.Mr. Robertson
276 said, that there was
276Mr. Secretary Peel
277 rose to present a petition from Mr. George Farquharson, of the Strand, which stated, that the petitioner had been employed for upwards of twenty years by the suitors and solicitors of the court of Chancery, in taking notes of the proceedings of that court, and that he was now in the employment of a morning newspaper. That on Friday, the 14th instant, the day on which the New Court of Chancery in Westminster-hall was opened for business, he, the petitioner, following his customary avocations, applied for admission to that court, but was told, to his surprise, by the officers of the court, that he could not be admitted, and that the reporters were in future to be excluded; and the petitioner, after stating the loss which such a measure would be to the public, and the hardship of his being deprived of his employment, if such exclusion were persisted in, concluded by submitting his case to the House, in order that the liberty which he had enjoyed for so long a period might still be continued. In presenting this petition, the learned member said, he thought there must have been some misconception between the petitioner and the persons by whom he had been excluded. If otherwise, he certainly thought it extremely hard, that the court of Chancery should be exclusive in adopting a measure which had not been acted upon by the other courts, where reporters were not denied the right of being admitted. It was not necessary at present to state the benefits which resulted to the public from the practice of giving publicity to judicial proceed-
277Mr. Abercromby
 said, that if any person connected with the public press had been excluded from the court of Chancery, he was confident that such exclusion did not originate with, and was not sanctioned by, the head of that court. There was no accommodation, however, in the new court for reporters to sit.The Solicitor General
279 said, that after the strong language used by the hon. and learned gentleman who just sat down, he felt called upon to say a few words, as well for the satisfaction of the House, as for the sake of rescuing the reputation of the professional gentleman by whom the new courts were built, from the unmerited censure with which he had been assailed. Five or six years ago, when the building of those courts was contemplated, it was understood to be indispensably necessary that they should all open into Westminster-hall. The site of them being therefore particularly prescribed, and the space within which they were to be erected exceedingly limited, the wonder was, how so much could be accomplished within so circumscribed an area: hence the professional character of the architect was placed under the influence of circumstances of peculiar difficulty. In executing a work of that nature it was not to be expected that he could succeed in giving universal satisfaction. It was impossible for Mr. Soane to consult all those gentlemen in the legal profession who had formed themselves into a sort of committee to arrange the building; but he had frequent communications with the judges. He had consulted them over and over again, and all their suggestions he had carried into execution; and all the alterations they recommended he effected. With respect to the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, he had the honour to attend him over the works; he had directed Mr. Soane to call upon him and explain all the plans, and had flattered himself that the learned gentleman was quite satisfied that every alteration suggested had been carried into execution, that was not incompatible with the wishes and opinions of the judges of the courts. With respect to the passages alluded to, he thought, that so far from their being objectionable, they were indispensable as a means of communication. It was, therefore, very hard to throw such blame on the architect. Mr. Soane's hands were tied up; so inadequate to the purpose
279The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was rejoiced to find that his impression that no order had been given for excluding reporters from the court of Chancery was correct. The presenting of Mr. Farquharson's petition would, in all probability, have the effect of preventing the authority of a judge from being abused by those who said, they acted under his directions.Mr. Abercromby
 rose to move the order of the day, that the House do resolve itself into a committee of ways and means.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he considered the best course to pursue would be to abstain from the second reading of the bill this session. Owing to the present state of the country, and the inquiries which were going on in the committee on the Scotch and Irish currency, he thought that some future occasion would be much better than the present for discussing the subject. He would not pledge himself to support the bill, but should be guided in the course he should pursue by the evidence which might be given in the committee, and by the information which he should endeavour to acquire on the subject before next session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that his learned friend was entitled to the highest praise for his perseverance. It was not on account of the lateness of the session, that his right hon. friend wished for the postponement of the question; but because there were at present under the consideration of parliament, so many important subjects, as to render the period extremely inconvenient. There was an inquiry on foot as to promissory notes, which was closely connected with the subject; and it would be obviously inconvenient to make any alteration in the law relating to interest, at a moment when the whole question of the currency of England, Ireland, and Scotland, was under consideration. As the learned serjeant had been patient for ten years, perhaps he would consent to defer the subject a little longer. In the recess, the attention of the government would be directed to it, and they would, of course have no objection to relieve the learned serjeant from the labour of the question, if, upon due consideration, it appeared a subject which they would be justified in bringing forward.Mr. Secretary Peel
 replied, that undoubtedly the Bank would be paid off at the most convenient time, and the present arrangement would enable the government to do so; but the payments would be made at such times and under such circumstances as the state of the currency and the demands of the Bank would render it most desirable to the government and useful to the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 begged to ask, how the; right hon. gentleman proposed to pay off the new debt, and what was the amount of the new sinking fund which he proposed to create?Mr. Maberly
l. replied, that, by an act of parliament, the sinking fund was to go on increasing at compound interest until it amounted to one per cent, on the whole amount of the debt. The whole debt, funded and unfunded, was already provided for by the regular sinking fund; so that the sinking fund to be raised was only upon the sum which formed the difference between the original amount of Exchequer bills as it stood under the name of unfunded debt, and the new stock now about to be created, forming a sum of about 560,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
283l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.,l.s.l.l.l. said, that he rose to propose certain resolutions respecting the funding of Exchequer-bills, a measure which had been adopted by his majesty's ministers for the purpose of relieving the Bank from a portion of the advances which had been made to government, and of diminishing the amount of Exchequer-bills already in the market. In pursuance of that plan, government had, in the course of last week, sent a proposal to the Bank, stating the nature of the measure, and explaining that it was intended to fund Exchequer bills, by creating a new stock, which should yield four per cent., fixing the amount of stock at 107283l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.,l.s.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that it was undoubtedly his object to have the means of paying them off as soon as possible; but, as he had already stated he was not under an obligation to pay them off at any particular time, but was at liberty to watch the market, so as to take advantage of such opportunities as occurred most beneficial to the public interests; as it was impossible, therefore, to mention any precise time—all he could say was, that it would be done as soon as convenient, although he thought it would be very imprudent to take any sudden measures which would affect the circulation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that the effect of that would be, to render a smaller issue of Exchequer-bills by the government necessary, than might otherwise be required.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know, whether a preference in the subscription for the new stock was not given to those who offered money rather than to those who went with Exchequer-bills?Sir F. Ommaney
 was not aware that he had said any thing about a preference being given to any party. The conditions on which the new stock was to be issued were known to the public on Wednesday last. But he had no objection to lay before the House an account of the nature of the subscriptions for the stock, distinguishing the amount in Exchequer-bills from that in cash.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
286285 observed, that this bill, which purported to have no less an object than the improvement of the Criminal Justice of England, seemed to him to be of such great importance, that he conceived the best method he could adopt in its consideration would be, to have it read clause by clause to the House. In that way he could, he thought, introduce most satisfactorily the very few amendments and alterations which it was necessary to propose. The first, and by far the most important, related to the powers of magistrates in the taking of bail—powers which had remained without any alteration since the time of Edward 1st. His object was, in this bill, to procure such a legislative provision, as would make it distinctly understood—what the powers of magistrates actually were with regard to bail, upon which there had been, for a long period, very considerable obscurity; and next, to extend the class of offences for which bail could be received, by giving some precise and definite description of the kind of offenders from whom bail could be taken, pointing out clearly who might be admitted to bail, and who must be committed to safe custody. He proposed, that where any person should be taken on a charge of felony, or suspicion of felony, before any justice of the peace, and the charge should be supported by positive evidence of the fact, or by
286285Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that the clause already proposed was the most material one. The others were not of such consequence at present. If the evidence against the prisoner was positive, the magistrate was bound to commit; and therefore it was that he added the word "credible" to "positive." "Credible" was not to be taken in its technical sense. It meant to guard against the evidence of persons of suspected or doubtful character, as, for instance, common prostitutes.Mr. Secretary Peel
 agreed with his right hon. friend, that the word "credible" was to be taken in its popular acceptation. Indeed, it was used as contra-distinguished from "incompetent." It meant persons who were credible from their character and conduct.The Attorney-general
 was strongly of opinion that, if the suggestion of the hon. and learned gentleman were adopted, it might tend, in many instances, to defeat the ends of justice. Measures, for instance, might be taken by the friends of a prisoner to intercept the messenger who was conveying the depositions to the assizes, and thus prevent the trial from coming on, Besides, it would have the effect of taking the discretion of postponing the trial quite out of the hands of the judge.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that perhaps it was not necessary that the judge should be in possession of the merits. He thought it would be wrong to legislate on the subject.Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, that if the suggestion proposed by his learned friend was adopted, a prisoner, through the neglect of the magistrates' clerk, might have his trial put off to the ensuing assizes. He admitted that it would be desirable to have the depositions in court during the trial; but if it was necessary to have them returned before the assizes, it might so happen that no officer would be in attendance to receive them.The Attorney General
 on the clause being moved, that all informations and examinations on which any person should be imprisoned or admitted to bail, should be committed to writing, and returned into court at its opening, said that, at present, magistrates, upon charges of misdemeanour, were apt not to reduce the examinations to writing; but although it might give some little more trouble, he conceived it right that this should be done in all cases.Mr. Secretary Peel,
 said, that he, for the most part, concurred in the opinion of the hon. gentleman; but the simple repeal of all these distinctions now would be premature. He hoped at no distant period, so early, indeed, as in the next session, to bring forward bills for the consolidation of the whole of the criminal statutes [hear, hear!]. These he would propose to take in the following order:—first, the laws relating to the injury of persons: second, those relating to coining and forgery. When these had undergone revision and alteration, most of the criminal law would have been revised and condensed. As soon as they had made that progress, it would be right, perhaps, to make one uniform provision upon the subject: but at present, those offences that were clergyable, and those that were not, were so interwoven in the statutes, that it was inconvenient to separate them, or to come to any specific provision upon the subject. Besides, the simple repeal now, by abolishing the words "without benefit of clergy," would have the effect of making some offences capital that were not so by law.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had to propose several important alterations. He therefore wished the House merely to go into the committee pro forma, that the bill might be reprinted, and stand over for consideration. He had originally proposed to consolidate, and he trusted he had succeeded in consolidating, the whole of the statute law of England relating to all offences against property, connected with theft; but he had found, in attempting to legislate with respect to theft, that all that part which related to the mischievous destruction of property was so intimately connected with theft, that it was difficult to draw a distinction. It was probable, however, that, should the committee agree to his alterations, he might think it expedient not to pass the bill through the House this session, but suffer it to lay over for consideration, in its amended state, till the next session.Mr. Secretary Peel
 was desirous that every person arraigned should have the benefit of a trial, whatever plea he might put forward, or under whatever circumstances a charge was preferred against him.Lord J. Russell
 said, that after what had fallen from his right hon. friend, it would be doing great injustice to the question to persevere in his motion. He should therefore beg leave to withdraw the bill.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
281 said, he did not complain so much of the personal inconvenience to which the frequent postponement of this measure had exposed him, as that it precluded him from having the
281Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 observed, that his motion for the second reading of the Usury Laws' Repeal bill was entitled to precedence; however, he was willing to concede priority on the understanding that his motion should come on immediately after the committee of ways and means.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 denied that these prosecutions interfered with the right of private judgment, unless, indeed, that could be called such which struck at the root of all morality and religion. It was an abuse of terms to designate blasphemy and impiety as connected with the just right of free opinion in a well-regulated state.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 expressed his concurrence in the sentiments of the hon. member who had preceded him.Mr. Sykes
 expressed a wish, that in all cases a prisoner should be tried either in the county where the offence was committed, or in that in which he was apprehended.Mr. Sykes
 thought there was great necessity for a new market; and therefore he should support the bill.Mr. Curteis
 objected to this delay. He considered that a question of such importance ought not to be put off session after session.Mr. Philips
280 considered the new courts to be very inconvenient. They might with more propriety have been erected on the other side of the Abbey; but he did not consider Mr. Soane at all to blame, as he had acted under the direction of others. It was certain that the courts were inadequate, and that they were by no means suited to the public convenience. He considered, however, that they might be rendered commodious, and he regretted that the report of the committee, who had
280Mr. Holme Sumner
l.267 expressed himself friendly to the bill. A new corn exchange was very much wanted. The present corn market was a joint-stock company concern, seventy-five years ago, when the consumption of corn could not have been near so great as it was at present. He believed the increased growth and importation of that article considerably exceeded the increase of the population, and required this new market. The present market was quite inadequate for the sale of corn; and the place opposite to it was equally so. In consequence of the want of necessary accommodation, the street in which the market stood was frequently rendered impassable. It was said, that this was an uncalled-for invasion of private property. He did not view it in that light; but even if it were considered as private property, this interference was rendered necessary for a public object. They were told that the new proprietors would, under this bill, go and turn out the old proprietors. It was no such thing. They said, "We
l.267Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that the facts proved by the returns on the table ought to be sufficient at once to induce ministers to take up the consideration of this very important subject. The following would show, in one view, the slow progress which British shipping had made within this year:—Mr. Heathcote
 presented a petition from the Ship-owners of Sunderland, setting forth,Mr. Heathcote
 replied, that, unless the judge had seen the depositions, he could know nothing of the merits of the particular case, and therefore could use no discretion.Mr. Horace Twiss
 said, that great inconvenience arose from not having the deposition of witnesses returned before the trial. In the absence of these documents, it was impossible to determine whether the evidence of the witnesses, as given before the magistrates, agreed with that given on the trial of the prisoner. He should therefore suggest, that in no case the trial should be proceeded on, unless the written examinations taken before the magistrates were in Court.Mr. Horace Twiss
 asked, whether any arrangement had been made for including in the payments to be made to the Bank the sums they had disbursed in the purchase of Exchequer bills in the early part of the year?Mr. Irving
 said, it was a fact much to be deplored, but undoubtedly true, that the employment of British shipping was now confined to the colonial trade; and he regretted to observe, that there was a set of persons seeking, night after night, to destroy that interest. Almost the whole of the navigation of the countries, that had adopted the reciprocity system, was carried on by foreigners.Mr. Irving
 rose to present a petition signed by about three hundred individuals, setting forth "That the petitioners, taking into consideration the high dishonour reflected on the Christian religion, and the absolute surrender of the great principle of the Protestant Reformation, which is the right of private judgment, in the late prosecutions for blasphemy, most humbly beseech the House to pass an act for the immediate and unconditional liberation of all persons now under confinement for blasphemy, impiety, or heretical pravity of any kind or degree whatever; and that it might be made the law of England that from henceforth no person or persons shall ever be subject to annoyance or prosecution for the holding, maintaining, or propagating, by printing or preaching, any religious principles whatever, provided they conduct themselves as virtuous members of the community, and loyal subjects of our sovereign lord the King." He concurred in the opinion of the petitioners, that no man ought to be imprisoned for holding a religious opinion which happened to be different from his neighbours; and it was certainly a reflection on the present enlightened age, that people should be cast into prison for three, four, and five years, for no other crime than that of thinking as they pleased upon speculative subjects. He was glad to find that the present Secretary of State for the home department did not, like some of his predecessors, encourage these prosecutions; still it was singular, that when, on a late occasion, he had ordered the liberation of Mr. Carlile, he had not also set at liberty a number of other persons who were incarcerated for offences of the same nature. If these matters were left to their own operation, without the notoriety of state trials, they would soon become things of utter indifference.Mr. Hume
 was also sorry that ministers were not present, when a subject of so much importance was before the House. If they had been in their seats, he would have recalled to their memory, the speech delivered by the late Mr. Ricardo, when the Reciprocity Duties bill was under debate. He had stated distinctly, on that occasion, that if this country acted upon the system of reciprocity, without repealing the heavy duties by which the shipping interest were pressed down, the consequence would be, beyond all doubt, that we should lose that branch of our trade; and he had voted for the bill only on the understanding, that in the ensuing session all those duties would be removed. He entirely concurred in Mr. Ricardo's opinion. If the taxes on our navigation were repealed, he believed that, under the freest competition, British shipping would keep their ground against all rivals, from every part of the world; but for that purpose it was essential that the whole of the taxes should be abolished on hemp, timber, iron, tallow, and all other commodities consumed by the shipping interest.Mr. Hume
 said, that the right hon. gentleman, whilst he was improving the criminal law, would be conferring a great benefit if he were to do away with the distinction as to the benefit of clergy altogether. Indeed, the meaning of this term was far from being generally understood.Mr. Hume
 seconded the motion. The present measure was, he said, one of those instances of interference with private property that ought to be resisted by the House. He had not attended the committee, but having seen their proceedings since they had closed their labours, he was sure, from what had transpired in the course of the inquiry, that the House would not tolerate this invasion of private property. The bill went to take from the present proprietors their property in the Corn Exchange, without any guarantee that another would be built. This was granting to the projectors a right which no persons ought to possess. If the present Corn Exchange was not large enough, he had no objection to allow a new one to be built by any body of individuals; but as no complaint had been made of the old Corn Exchange, he wished that to be suffered to remain also.Mr. Hume
 said, that with respect to plans and models, none but young artists could present them, for the more experienced and distinguished were occupied so constantly, that they could not have leisure for such a course.Mr. R. Colborne
 thought that great difficulties would arise from placing too precise and exact limits to the conduct of magistrates. Too technical a laying down of their duties would have the effect of embarrassing them. He considered that there was a strong objection to the use of the word "credible," which was generally considered as synonymous with "competent;" and that, unless a person was convicted of some disqualifying crime, he must be considered competent. He should like the clause better, if magistrates were authorized, when the evidence appeared insufficient, to discharge the prisoner rather than remand him. He saw great reason for pausing before the clause proposed was agreed to. At all events, he hoped that nothing which passed that night would be considered as final, but that every clause would be printed and placed in the hands of members.Mr. Denman
 asked, whether it would not be expedient, in order to give effect to this clause, to empower the magistrates to commit to the gaol of either county?Mr. Denman
 concurred in the opinion, of his learned friend, that before any alteration was adopted, the particular statutes in which these distinctions between the principal and accessary were made, should be laid before the committee, and the grounds of them examined.Mr. Denman
l.l.l. said, it had been asserted by the supporters of this measure, that corn would sell better in a large market than in a small one. If this were so, and if the present corn market were not sufficiently spacious, let the parties enlarge it, or build another elsewhere. The existing corn market was built by private parties for their use and convenience, and the business had been carried on there very prosperously for a great many years. This measure, he thought, interfered with private rights as much as any measure could possibly do. He believed that the sale of corn by commission had decreased, instead of having increased, of late years; and, that therefore, there could be no necessity for a new market. The effect of this bill would be, to turn out those who were in possession of the old market, and to allow the projectors to replace them by any persons they pleased. At present, the rent of a stand was 10l.l.l.Mr. T. Wilson
 observed, that this clause only re-enacted the present law. The clause contained the words "any felony may be inquired of in either county." These words, he conceived, met the case mentioned by the learned member for Nottingham. If they did not, he should be happy to insert a clause in the bill, which would give the magistrates the power which the learned member thought they ought to have.Mr. Peel
 was anxious to have the clause passed now, in order that the printing of the bill might not be postponed. After it was printed it would be re-committed, and the learned gentleman would then have the opportunity of creating the discussion which he desired.Mr. Peel
291 thought, that it would be much better to have the prisoner always tried in the county where the offence was committed, as it would enable both prosecutors and prisoners to conduct their
291Mr. Peel
289 next proposed the clause enacting, that "if any person indicted for
289Mr. Peel
 said, he only proposed to enact what he already found in several statutes. The clause only proposed, in a compressed manner, to enact that which was already in force.Mr. Peel
290 replied, that he had adhered to the principle on which the law proceeded in the punishment provided for offences. It was, that the accessary should be liable to the same punishment as the principal. Indeed, in some instances, the accessary, in his opinion, was more criminal; as in the case of persons instigating boys to steal in dwelling-houses, to commit robbery, or some other offence, with the expectation that, on account of their youth, they might escape the capital punishment due to the crime. There, in his opinion, the
290Mr. Peel
l.293s.l.s.s. said, he would shortly state to the House two or three of the alterations which he desired to make. In the first place, as it was expedient to limit, as far as possible, the list of offences which were subject to the punishment of death, he intended to repeal that law which made the stealing in a church (no matter under what circumstances, or to what amount) a capital crime. As the statute stood, a man who stole his neighbour's prayer-book, as they sat in the same pew at chapel together, would be liable to suffer death for it; the act being in itself no more than a simple larceny. He saw no reason why any other law should be applicable to a place of worship than to the common case of a dwelling-house. In either case the breaking and entering would be capital, but not the simple act of stealing. In the same way, the statute which made it death to steal from a booth or tent at a fair, was one which he thought deserved to be revised. People who kept such open booths ought to guard their property sufficiently themselves, and not look for laws of unreasonable severity to protect it. The stealing to the amount of 40l.293s.l.s.s.Mr. Peel
 defended the character of those with whom this measure originated. It was admitted on all hands, that the present market was most inconvenient; and those individuals had taken the only method of remedying the inconvenience. But it was said, "cannot you build elsewhere?" It would, indeed, be speculating with a vengeance if they came to the west end of the town to erect a corn-market. These individuals had fixed upon the only place where the corn business could be efficiently carried on. If this bill was defeated, the building would still go on; but there would be no communication between the two markets, and the greatest possible inconvenience would be the consequence.Sir E. Knatchbull
278 said, that a more contemptible court of justice than the New Court of Chancery there was not in the kingdom. There was no adequate accommodation for the gentlemen of the bar, and in every point it was a most inconvenient court. There were no means of accommodation for the public, not to speak of reporters. With respect to the court of King's-bench, all he could say about it was, that every defect of the old court seemed to have been scrupulously copied, for the purpose of transferring it to the new court; and, as to the court of Exchequer, although from its size it was certainly the most commodious of the new courts, its internal arrangements were by no means improved. Indeed, as he had just remarked with respect to the King's-bench, every defect of the old court was scrupulously continued. The bench was awkwardly situated, and the seats for counsel being on one side only, occasioned much inconvenience. Then, as to the gallery behind the bench, which had been copied from the old court, he never yet could see the use of it. The only improvement which had taken place in this court was, that in point of space it had been considerably enlarged. He would not allude to the useless passages which surrounded the courts, or the senseless ornaments by which the walls were decorated; but he would venture to say, that a greater waste of money had seldom taken place than in the making of these new courts. He was sorry to say that the suggestion he had made last year, to appoint a committee to manage the improvements, had not been carried into practice. The passages that ran parallel from Westminster-hall were of no use whatever; and he wondered at the wild-
278Mr. Scarlett
 disclaimed any idea of casting aspersions on the character of Mr. Soane.Mr. Scarlett
 was desirous of having the cases in which the accessary ought not to be punished equally with the principal brought distinctly under the consideration of the House. He therefore wished the right hon. gentleman to postpone the consideration of this clause until an opportunity should be given to draw up an enumeration of the cases in which the accessary before the fact and the principal ought to share the same punishment.Mr. Scarlett
 objected to the clause which subjected "accessaries before the fact" to the same punishment as principals, in all cases of felony. There were some cases in which an exception was made to the general provision. As a general rule, he admitted that accessaries were liable to the same punishment; but before they altered the law as relating to excepted cases, he thought the committee ought to have before them the statutes, by which, for certain offences, the accessary was visited with a less punishment, the principal with a greater. The effect of the present clause might be, to increase the number of capital punishments, in some cases where the principal was indictable for a capital felony, and the accessary only made liable to one that was not capital.Mr. Scarlett
 observed, that the judges had uniformly evinced the greatest unwillingness to admit a party to plead guilty. Even where a prisoner was obstinate in refusing to plead at all, the judge had a plea of "not guilty" entered for him, and the trial gone through.Mr. Scarlett
 observed, that if there were any doubt as to the boundary of a county, there would be also some doubt as to the distance of five-hundred yards from that boundary. It appeared necessary to make the law more explicit upon this point.Mr. Scarlett
 said, that, in point of fact, magistrates already exercised the power about to be granted them by this act.Mr. Scarlett
292 approved of the course pursued by the right hon. gentleman.
292Mr. Scarlett
266 supported the measure
266Sir E. Brydges
284 asked, what was to become of the surplus which would thus remain in the hands of government, provided it were not found necessary to make
284Sir J. Wrottesley
 asked, if there was any precise time in which the right hon. gentleman proposed to himself the payment of the Exchequer bills?Sir. J. Wrottesley
 expressed his disapprobation of the mode in which public works were carried on. When a public building was about to be erected, plans and models ought to be submitted from the various artists generally. The thing should be thrown open to the public; for, according to the existing state of things, it was impossible for any architect to be employed, unless he was connected in some manner with the Board of Works, as it was called. There should be a fair competition thrown open to the talents of the various artists. Let them only look round the town, and see the abilities which the various public buildings, churches, &c, had called forth. For example, there was the new church at Chelsea. Had it not been for that opportunity, the talents of the distinguished artist who erected that beautiful church might have passed unnoticed. He did not mean, in the slightest degree, to dispute the talents of Mr. Soane, or to detract in the least from the acknowledged merits of that individual; but he thought it would be a considerable improvement if public works, like those of a private nature, were open to a fair competition.Sir M. W. Ridley
273 supported the petition, and wished that the president and vice-president of the Board of Trade were in their places, as this was a subject deserving the gravest consideration of govern-
273Sir M. W. Ridley
l.,l.l.,268l.l. said, that a most respectable corn dealer had, in his evidence, pointed out the impossibility of carrying on business in the present state of the market, and it had come out in the course of the inquiry, that a bye-law had been framed by the society, or joint-stock company, who held the Exchange, by which they excluded from participating in this corn trade, every person except corn factors. The corn factors had thus elected themselves into a body, who were to mete out to the public whatever quantity of corn they thought fit, under their own regulations, and at their own price. That this was a monopoly, and a very profitable one, was apparent from this fact—that though the premises were not worth more than 10,000l.,l.l.,268l.l.Sir Robert Wilson
 said, he felt it to be his duty to enter his protest against this unwarrantable and uncalled-for measure. Its chief effect would be, to increase the number of retail dealers in corn, to the evident injury of those who had already embarked in that trade. That, however, was not the principal ground on which he founded his opposition. His great objection to the bill was, that it would interfere with the private rights of individuals—with the rights of those who were the possessors of the present Corn Exchange—without adequately remunerating them. The individuals who had formed this project might build a corn exchange where they pleased, but they had no right to throw down buildings which belonged to the occupiers of the existing Exchange. Who were the parties with whom this plan originated? They were, in fact, a joint-stock association, and they set this scheme on foot, as likely to be a speculation of a profitable nature. They asserted that a new exchange was greatly wanted. Now, he was disposed to doubt the correctness of that statement, as he believed the sale of corn had not increased within the last twenty or thirty years. He should therefore move "That the report be received this day six months."Sir T. Baring
300 said, he did not see the candour or justice of the course adopted by the hon. member for Aberdeen. It would have been only fair in the hon. gentleman to have given notice that he was about to present the petition when coming down to the House with such an accusation in his pocket. The hon. member was in the habit of using such unmeasured language, that it might seem almost useless to protest against it; yet he could not but protest against his present proceeding. To say the least of it, it was unfair to bring forward such a statement without notice of his intention, when it was possible that some satisfactory explanation of the circumstances might have been given. He did not pretend to be acquainted with the circumstances of
300Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that a judge, of any rank, was a person at least entitled to be treated with decency, if not with respect. He had not heard the expressions of the hon. gentleman, but it had been reported to him that the hon. gentleman, in the exercise of that privilege which, abstractedly, was certainly the right of every member, had said that the lord chancellor was a curse to the country. Now, he himself was a friend to the privileges of parliament; but, great as he wished its liberty to be—latitudinarian as he would wish its privilege to be—he must be allowed to say, that a greater curse than any lord chancellor could be to any country, would be that privilege, if, on an exparte statement, in the absence of any defence, in the impossibility of the party making his own defence, men of the highest station were to be denounced and hunted down in consequence of fulfilling a public trust. The case might be a strong one. Let the hon. gentleman in pursuing his motion, make that out: let him prove that this was a case which, on the face of it, carried marks of oppression and injustice, and then he might alter his opinion of the language which had been applied to the judge and the court of Chancery; though no circumstances could justify the use of such language even in that very strong case. To talk of a man as being a curse to his country, was to denounce him as being devoid of principle, of feeling, and of honour. But, indeed, to attack a man with such expressions behind his back, when none of his friends were present, or instructed either in the accusation or the defence which they might make when known, would, if drawn into practice, make that House the most grievous curse to the country.The Solicitor-General
302301 said, he was not in the House when the words which caused this
302301Mr. Grenfell
309 said, he did not rise to oppose the reception of this petition, but merely to point out, that nothing had been done in this case, according to the petitioner's own statement, but what was done every day by an hon. member of that House, who had to foreclose a mortgage and proceed with an ejectment cause; and yet this process which every gentleman's attorney had daily to resort to in cases of this kind, was to be made the frame-work of a bitter attack upon the lord chancellor, as if he alone had inflicted an unusual injury upon an individual, in administering a particular process of law. The fact was, it was not the court which had upset this man, but the lessor, who had directed his attorney to proceed to a decree against him. Why, then, did not the hon. member, instead of impugning the lord chancellor, attack the attorney or his client? The reason was, no doubt, not so much his sense of justice, as of gallantry, for he did not like to attack a female, and therefore he had refrained from casting any reflection upon Phoebe Leeson. [Repeated laughter, the learned gentleman having mistaken the
309The Solicitor-General
lll311ll310 said, he was obliged to his hon. friend for having brought forward this petitioner's case, and drawn the attention of the House to the enormous abuses which prevailed in the system of the court of Chancery. At the same time, he regretted the introduction of any harsh
lll311ll310Mr. Baring
313312 said, that he had to confess the same ignorance as the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, of mere points of law; but really he must say that, for the purpose of this petition, the discussion Which had taken place was quite irregular and uncalled-for. The preamble of grievances in the petition set forth, that the evil lay in the court of Chancery, but one half of the subsequent matter applied equally to process issuing from any of the courts of common law. The man had refused obedience to a process which had been duly taken out against him, but of the effect of which he pretended ignorance, by remarking, that the piece of parchment referred to the affairs of one John Doe and Richard Roe, and mentioned staves and knives, and such nonsense. This notification he admitted he had treated with great contempt; and for so doing he had entailed upon himself the further proceeding of which he had complained. Now, all this would have happened in any other court as well as the court of Chancery. What, then, became of the general argument? Why, nothing but this, that legal proceedings inflicted pecuniary penalties, and that the rich man must always, in such litigations, have an advantage over the poor man; and this must, from the nature of things, continue, not only in this but in every other country which had laws to administer: and a grievance it was so far for the poor man; one, too, carrying with it the painful conviction, that it was impossible for the wisdom of man to devise any remedy against its operation. The only inference that could be drawn from the speech of the hon. gentleman was, that the court of Chancery, and the judge who presided there,
313312Mr. Secretary Canning
ll317 observed, that, from what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman, it was quite plain that no report, however pleasing, would have given him satisfaction. Indeed, so prejudiced was the hon. and learned gentleman, that he could not see the difference between 190,000 and the 190 suggestions of improvement which the report contained. For himself, he thought it most extraordinary that because improvements had been suggested, the court of Chancery should be run down. The hon. and learned gentleman complained that the report was unwieldy and voluminous. Did he forget that this was his own suggestion? When the commission was appointed, did not the hon. and learned gentleman say, "I hope you will give a full and ample report?" Nothing at that time would satisfy him but a full report. His suggestion was adopted; but when the report was brought forward, what did he say? "It is too voluminous, we can never get through it." Such was the spirit of justice displayed by the hon. and learned gentleman. The hon. and learned gentleman seemed to complain of the delay which the measure occasioned. Long before this time the evidence was placed in the hands of the printer of the House of Commons, in order that those members who might have been interested in the measure, should have an opportunity of inspecting the progress which had been made. Yet this was the return of the hon. and learned gentleman, by whose desire the evidence had been printed. Why was the report voluminous? Because every person who had a complaint to prefer, every country solicitor who might offer an objection against the practice of chancery, was invited to state his grievance and propose his remedy. With respect to the present petition, he thought
ll317Mr. Secretary Peel
 defended the conduct of the commissioners, who felt it their duty to present as ample a report to the House, as they could possibly prepare.Mr. R. Smith
sss358357 began by remarking upon the inconsistency of ministers with regard to this question. The right hon. gentleman opposite admitted, that last year he had promised to discuss this question in the present session, but said, that he had not performed his promise on account of the difference of circumstances between that time and the present. Yet, notwithstanding this breach of promise, the right hon. gentleman still expected faith to be placed in his word; and, at the end of the sentence in which he had made this admission, he repeated his promise. What was the case which the right hon. gentleman attempted to make out in justification of the breach of his promise? it was most unsatisfactory. The whole of it might have applied to any time and circumstances as well as to the present, and his arguments might have been moulded in the same manner, to answer his purpose on every occasion
sss358357Major Maberly
 said, he felt much obliged to the honourable mover for making out so good a case for the landed interest. That hon. gentleman had now appeared, for three successive years, in a very extraordinary capacity; for in three successive sessions of parliament he had prophesied that a famine would befal the country. Now, he was quite disposed, on many occasions, to go with that hon. gentleman; but really, where a man undertook to be weather-wise, he must be pardoned for thinking him otherwise. If the hon. gentleman would only print his speech of that night, as a summary of all the others that he had printed on the same subject, he would promise him that it should be treated better than the last; which, to say the truth, had not yet, to the best of his belief, been read by any member of the club of which himself and the hon. gentleman were members.Mr. Wodehouse
367s366365364363362361360 said, he differed entirely in opinion from the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, for he thought that there was no question which was more proper for discussion than that before the House; and none for which, by discussion, more was likely to be gained. He wished to hear the question argued fully and fairly—to hear as many gentlemen as possible express their opinions upon it, plainly and practically, but without such angry animadversions or imputations of interested motives, as could only tend to create ill feeling, and lead them from the real merits of the subject; and, although he regretted, at so late an hour, and in the present disposition of honourable members, to be compelled to occupy any portion of their time, yet he should be obliged to trouble them at some little length, from the peculiar situation in which he stood as to the arguments of the speakers who had gone before him. For, to deal candidly, although he could not agree in the view of the question taken by the honourable member immediately above him (Mr. Curwen), yet certainly he had not quite so disinterested a feeling upon it as that contended for by one or two honourable members who had spoken in the course of the debate. Standing as he did in the situation of a gentleman of England, possessing a landed estate, most certainly, if he believed that
367s366365364363362361360Sir Francis Burdett
 said, that if the hon. member was desirous of having it repeated, that the administration of justice in the court of Chancery as at present constituted, and the manner of its performance by the lord chancellor, who administered its affairs according to this system, had become a curse to the country, he, for one, would himself indulge him with the repetition of that animadversion. It did not become members of that House, when describing the abominable and most vexatious proceedings of such a system, to soften down and qualify the epithets which it loudly called for [hear].Mr. Ellice
s342ssdss341340ssll339ssssdss338337336 in rising to second the motion, said, that it was expected by the manufacturing interests that, if there was
s342ssdss341340ssll339ssssdss338337336Mr. Philips,
llll356 thought the country gentlemen were ill-treated by ministers, who, rather than meet the subject as it ought to be met, were for smothering it, whenever there was danger of its exciting discussion. In this manner it had been smothered last year, and in this manner it was to be smothered now. This perpetual delay was most inconvenient to the landed interest, who could not tell into what engagements they ought to enter with their tenants while this subject remained suspended over their heads. The principle of free trade had been much referred to. That principle might do very well in commercial concerns, but it was a frightful and fearful doctrine to apply to the agricultural interests—the absolute ruin of which it might probably occasion. The same rules did not apply to agriculture and commerce. If any branch of trade was injured, there was a disposition in the country to embark its capital in commercial adventures, and the interests of trade would be retrieved. It was not so in agricultural concerns, which ought, therefore, to be more carefully protected and encouraged. Besides, the agricultural interest had not yet recovered from the distress which it had suffered, and more time ought yet to be allowed it. In what be now laid, he disclaimed the imputation of speaking merely for his own individual interest, and not for the interest of the farmer and the labourer. On the part of the landed gentlemen of England, he disclaimed the imputation which the noble lord had cast upon them, of seeking to advance their own interests, whilst they pretended to advocate the cause of the farmer and the labourer. The landed gentlemen bad made sacrifices which were in the highest degree honourable to them. The principle of free trade might convert the lands of foreign countries from wastes to gardens, but it would convert the lands of England from gardens to wastes. Before this protection was taken off corn, ministers should determine to put the
llll356Mr. Holme Sumner
308ll307l.l306ll said, that lest the petition should contain expressions similar to those which had been used by the hon. member who had presented it, he would request to have it read by the clerk: for, should it be found to contain unwarrantable phrases of that kind, he hoped the House, for the sake of its own character, would not suffer such libellous aspersions to go forth from its table.308ll307l.l306llMr. Sumner
 said, he was certainly dissatisfied with the hon. gentleman's explanation; but he knew that, not having called for the hon. member's words to be taken down at the moment they were used, he had lost the opportunity of taking the matter up as a point of strict privilege. If, however, the hon. member still insisted, that not only was the system of the court of Chancery a curse to the country, but that the lord chancellor himself was equally so, then all he had to say was, that if the hon. member now repeated his expressions, he would certainly call to have his words taken down, and afterwards for the opinion of the House upon them.Mr. Sumner
303 said, that the hon. member who spoke last had spoken in modified terms of the present system of the court of Chancery. Not so, however, the hon. member who had preceded him, and who had, he would assert, made the most indecent, the most uncalled-for, and the most outrageous, attack upon the learned lord who presided in that court, which he had ever heard made in that House. This being his opinion, he thought the House would be deficient in its duty to its own dignity, if it did not call for some explanation from the hon. member, with the view of softening down the rigour of the phrase which he had ventured to use on the present occasion; and if, in failure of such an explanation, it did not by a specific resolution, express its opinion that such an expression was a violent and indecent abuse of the privileges of parliament. He begged further to state, that if the hon. member did not qualify his epithet, he, himself, would be the person who would move such a resolution, for the purpose of at least acquitting himself individually of the duty which was due to the learned person at the head of the court of Chancery, who ought to be protected from such a strain of abuse. The hon. and learned Solicitor-general had, indeed, said, with reference to the system of the court of Chancery, that the complexity of its practice was the fruit of the present complicated condition of the business of society. Now, he did not altogether concur in this opinion; for, however complicated were the concerns of society at large, he did concur with those who thought, that the delays which prevailed in some parts of the administration of justice were not only unjustifiable, but often ruinous to the aggrieved parties. The fault did not, however, rest with the lord chancellor: it rested as much with himself, and every other member of the House, who had neglected to introduce some remedial improvement in the system of the court, which had, for time out of mind, been defective. Indeed, so far from arraigning the lord chancellor in the way
303Mr. Holme Sumner
370369368 said, that taking warning by the impatience manifested by the House, he should address himself shortly and plainly to the simple question before them. That question was, whether they should go into a committee of the whole House, for the purpose, as he understood, of ascertaining whether or not some legislative measure might not be introduced which would settle this question? The right hon. gentleman opposite would not, however, accede to the proposal; he would not run the risk of prolonging the session a few short days, or a week or two at most, to enable them to settle this
370369368Mr. Brougham
318 considered the report to be, in one sense, too long, inasmuch as it occupied eight or nine hundred folio pages, although in another sense he considered it too short. He did not, however, now mean to enter into any discussion upon the subject, further than to say, that its omissions were numerous and palpable, and that, though the volume was bulky, it was any thing but full of information. Many answers were given, which the parties giving them must have known to be imperfect, and explanations were withheld which rendered the evidence any thing but what it ought to have been. In proof of this he would just state one instance. A question was put to one gentleman, and he was asked if three persons could do the business of the court of Chancery? and his answer to that was "no, certainly, nor three angels." Now, surely, every one must see that such an answer should have been followed up, and then, perhaps, the House would be able to ascertain what it was that neither three men nor three angels could perform. Another gentleman was asked, if it were
318Mr. Brougham
359 said, it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House more than a few moments. Indeed, he would not have presented himself at all, at that late hour, were it not that he was anxious to rebut a charge made against land-owners, that, in keeping up high prices, they were looking only to their own interests. He should blush at rising in his place, if he felt that such a stigma deservedly attached to that body. But he was glad to know that such was not the case. In advocating their interests, they were advocating those of the public at large. It was impossible that the manufacturing and other interests of the country could go on with what was called cheap corn; because cheap corn must
359Mr. Curwen
 said, he was shocked, as he was convinced every other hon. gentleman must have been, by the language applied to the lord chancellor by the hon. member for Aberdeen. The delays of the court of Chancery were not attributable to the noble and learned lord who presided over that court, but to the system.Mr. Lockhart
316315 commenced by disclaiming the slightest feelings of personal disrespect towards the noble and learned lord who presided in the court of Chancery, in whom was blended a great and singular mixture of the courtesy of the nobleman with the dignity of the judge. He was most willing to admit that the noble and learned lord could not be surpassed in those amiable qualities by which he was distinguished; and, to use the words of the noble and learned lord himself, in alluding, on another occasion, to a no less gifted individual, "he wished him well wherever he might be." [hear, and a laugh.] But while speaking on the subject which had chiefly given rise to the present discussion—he meant the unlucky monosyllable which had spread so much alarm on the opposite side of the House, and had even caused the hair of his hon. and learned friend, the solicitor-general, actually to stand on end,—he begged leave for himself to adopt that monosyllable, and to repeat it if requisite. That the court of Chancery was a curse to the country, could not be denied. He did not wish to anticipate the general question respecting the court of Chancery which his hon. friend (sir F. Burdett) meant to introduce, by following up the present discussion; but he could not but observe the inconsistency of conduct adopted by some gentlemen on the present occasion. What said the hon. member for Surrey? Why, that the lord chancellor was not to blame for the delays and abuses which were so notorious in his court. Where, he would ask, was the vote of that hon. gentleman when the abuses of chancery were discussed in parliament in the session of 1823? Where was that hon. member's vote when the question was discussed at a still later period? Was it not notorious that this House had declared, by repeated majorities, that the abuses in chancery should be investigated? And the only difference of opinion which existed on the subject was, with respect to the time which would be requisite to investigate the proceedings of that court, with a view to correct the abuses which might be found to exist. As deliberation might be said to infuse its effects into all the proceedings of chancery, it was natural to expect that a sufficient time would be demanded; and accordingly a convenient pause was granted, in order to give the; commission the fullest opportunity of in-
316315Mr. John Williams
304l said, it appeared that the language he had used with respect to the system of the court of Chancery, was considered as indecorous and improper. Now, on the contrary, he thought it perfectly applicable; and he begged that the hon. member, or the House, would, if they thought otherwise, order his words to be taken down; for he was ready to abide by them. Whatever might be the result of such a course, there were very few, he believed, out of that House, who would hesitate to say, that the court of Chancery deserved the appellation which he had directed against its system, and ought to be designated as a curse to the country; in point of fact, that it had been so for a very long time. How had he applied the epithet? The learned Solicitor-general was ignorant of the facts which the petition set forth, or he would not have made use of the observations which he had uttered, and supposed, contrary to what had occurred, that he had failed to make out a case of grievance. The facts which he had stated were these: The petitioner, a labourer, had unfortunately become possessed of a farm worth 600304lMr. Hume
299lll rose to present a petition from an individual named William Richardson, labourer, confined in the Castle of York, under the order of the lord chancellor, for a Contempt of Court. The case was, in his opinion, one of great hardship. It appeared from the statements contained in the petition, that the petitioner was a labourer in the county of York. In the year 1824, he had the misfortune to have a property of 600299lllMr. Hume
 said, that after patiently listening to all that had been urged on the other side of the House, he saw no reason to think that he had over-stated the evils of the court of Chancery.Mr. Hume
351350349348347346345344343 said, that in offering himself to the notice of the House immediately after the hon. proposer and seconder of the present motion, he rose, not for the purpose of following the honourable mover over the wide field of most important matter to which he had culled their attentive consideration. However much he might admire the instructive detail which the honourable mover had offered to the House and to the country, it was not his purpose to enter into it at that moment. His purpose rather was, to persuade the House not to engage in the discussion of it, because he was convinced that the discussion of it could only terminate in inconvenience and embarrassment. The hon. seconder of the motion had stated, that last year he had pledged himself to recommend parliament to undertake the revision of the Corn-laws. He would say a word or two as to the nature of that pledge by and by; but he thought himself warranted at present in saying, that from the opening of the present session, there appeared a coincidence of feeling in the House, amounting almost to a common understanding, that there were certain questions of great magnitude, importance, and difficulty, which it would not be desirable, under the circumstances of the country and the parliament, to enter into during that session [cries of "No," from the opposition benches.] That feeling, he maintained, was entertained by the House, not only in justice to the questions themselves, but also in justice to the public interests which were materially involved in them. It was almost universally admitted, that there were certain questions which it would be much better to leave in a state of abeyance, until they could be more fully discussed in a new parliament [hear]. He certainly did collect from the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea, with respect to this difficult and important question, that he conceived the present session not to be a convenient season for the discussion of it; and his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, acting in the same spirit, intimated to the House, on
351350349348347346345344343Mr. Huskisson
 in explanation, denied that he had, last session, urged the prosperity of the country as an argument against going into a revision of the Corn-laws; nor had he in the present, quoted the distress as a reason for avoiding that measure. All he now said was, that any rapid reduction in the price of corn might be likely to create alarm, and aggravate the difficulties under which the country was labouring. As for the report to which the hon. member for Northampton had alluded, as soon as he received it, he had lost no time in laying it before the House.Mr. Huskisson,
335sssss334ssss"If a duty in this country of 10sss334ssssss333dsds048
04808Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London
08Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic
61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure
02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow
03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow05Freight to Dantzic
05Freight to Dantzic60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats
60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsaw
028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsawd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.
048
04808Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London
08Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic
61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure
02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow
03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow05Freight to Dantzic
05Freight to Dantzic60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats
60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsaw
028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsawd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.ssss332sss33133018,956Denmark and Norway
18,956Denmark and Norway23,071France
23,071France29,530Flanders
29,530Flanders40,033Holland
40,033Holland23,040Canada
23,040Canada87,376United States
87,376United States87,092Germany
87,092Germany204,667Prussia, including Poland
204,667Prussia, including Poland12,275Sweden
12,275Sweden66,373Russia
66,373RussiaQuarters.
Quarters.
18,956Denmark and Norway
18,956Denmark and Norway23,071France
23,071France29,530Flanders
29,530Flanders40,033Holland
40,033Holland23,040Canada
23,040Canada87,376United States
87,376United States87,092Germany
87,092Germany204,667Prussia, including Poland
204,667Prussia, including Poland12,275Sweden
12,275Sweden66,373Russia
66,373RussiaQuarters.
Quarters.ds12,577,029
12,577,029591,7311820
591,7311820471,6071819
471,60718191,586,0301818
1,586,03018181,030,8291817
1,030,8291817210,8601816
210,8601816194,9311815
194,9311815626,7451814
626,7451814341,8461813
341,8461813129,8671812
129,8671812188,5631811
188,56318111,439,6151810
1,439,6151810387,8631809
387,863180941,3921808
41,3921808359,8351807
359,8351807207,8791806
207,8791806836,7471805
836,7471805391,0681804
391,0681804312,4581803
312,4581803538,1441802
538,14418021,424,2411801
1,424,24118011,263,7711800
1,263,7711800Quarters.
Quarters.
12,577,029
12,577,029591,7311820
591,7311820471,6071819
471,60718191,586,0301818
1,586,03018181,030,8291817
1,030,8291817210,8601816
210,8601816194,9311815
194,9311815626,7451814
626,7451814341,8461813
341,8461813129,8671812
129,8671812188,5631811
188,56318111,439,6151810
1,439,6151810387,8631809
387,863180941,3921808
41,3921808359,8351807
359,8351807207,8791806
207,8791806836,7471805
836,7471805391,0681804
391,0681804312,4581803
312,4581803538,1441802
538,14418021,424,2411801
1,424,24118011,263,7711800
1,263,7711800Quarters.
Quarters.329dssdsdsdsssss328sssss327sssss326d.3d.s.43s.1822
d.3d.s.43s.1822d.3d.s.54s.1821
d.3d.s.54s.1821d.10d.s.65s.1820
d.10d.s.65s.1820d.9d.s.72s.1819
d.9d.s.72s.1819d.8d.s.83s.1818
d.8d.s.83s.1818d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was
d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was
d.3d.s.43s.1822
d.3d.s.43s.1822d.3d.s.54s.1821
d.3d.s.54s.1821d.10d.s.65s.1820
d.10d.s.65s.1820d.9d.s.72s.1819
d.9d.s.72s.1819d.8d.s.83s.1818
d.8d.s.83s.1818d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was
d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was325324sssddsd.5sd.s.dsdsssdsd323ll.322321320319 said, that in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the present state of the Corn Laws, he felt the great weight of responsibility he incurred in agitating a question of such magnitude and importance. He was aware how much he had to contend with prejudice; he was aware how exaggerated were the hopes of one party, and how extravagant were the alarms of another, as to the issue of this question. The present moment was one of considerable distress; and, when he reflected that the question related to the supply of food, he felt that it required to be treated with the utmost delicacy. At present, obstructions were interposed in the way of that supply by law. These obstructions he wished to have removed, but he knew well that inconvenience and danger might accrue from any extensive change in the internal policy of the country, however beneficial it might ultimately prove. He knew, too, that the agricultural interest was one for which the House had always deservedly manifested the strongest predilection. The
335sssss334ssss"If a duty in this country of 10sss334ssssss333dsds048
04808Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London
08Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic
61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure
02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow
03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow05Freight to Dantzic
05Freight to Dantzic60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats
60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsaw
028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsawd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.
048
04808Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London
08Freight, primage, insurance, and shipping charges, at Dantzic and in London61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic
61Profit, or commission, as the case may be, to the merchant at Dantzic02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure
02Expenses at Dantzic, in turning, drying, screening, and warehousing, and loss of measure03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow
03Loss on the passage, by pilfering, and by rain causing it to grow05Freight to Dantzic
05Freight to Dantzic60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats
60Conveyance to the boats, and charges for loading and stowing, and securing it by mats028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsaw
028Cost of the quarter of wheat at Warsawd.d.s.s.
d.d.s.s.ssss332sss33133018,956Denmark and Norway
18,956Denmark and Norway23,071France
23,071France29,530Flanders
29,530Flanders40,033Holland
40,033Holland23,040Canada
23,040Canada87,376United States
87,376United States87,092Germany
87,092Germany204,667Prussia, including Poland
204,667Prussia, including Poland12,275Sweden
12,275Sweden66,373Russia
66,373RussiaQuarters.
Quarters.
18,956Denmark and Norway
18,956Denmark and Norway23,071France
23,071France29,530Flanders
29,530Flanders40,033Holland
40,033Holland23,040Canada
23,040Canada87,376United States
87,376United States87,092Germany
87,092Germany204,667Prussia, including Poland
204,667Prussia, including Poland12,275Sweden
12,275Sweden66,373Russia
66,373RussiaQuarters.
Quarters.ds12,577,029
12,577,029591,7311820
591,7311820471,6071819
471,60718191,586,0301818
1,586,03018181,030,8291817
1,030,8291817210,8601816
210,8601816194,9311815
194,9311815626,7451814
626,7451814341,8461813
341,8461813129,8671812
129,8671812188,5631811
188,56318111,439,6151810
1,439,6151810387,8631809
387,863180941,3921808
41,3921808359,8351807
359,8351807207,8791806
207,8791806836,7471805
836,7471805391,0681804
391,0681804312,4581803
312,4581803538,1441802
538,14418021,424,2411801
1,424,24118011,263,7711800
1,263,7711800Quarters.
Quarters.
12,577,029
12,577,029591,7311820
591,7311820471,6071819
471,60718191,586,0301818
1,586,03018181,030,8291817
1,030,8291817210,8601816
210,8601816194,9311815
194,9311815626,7451814
626,7451814341,8461813
341,8461813129,8671812
129,8671812188,5631811
188,56318111,439,6151810
1,439,6151810387,8631809
387,863180941,3921808
41,3921808359,8351807
359,8351807207,8791806
207,8791806836,7471805
836,7471805391,0681804
391,0681804312,4581803
312,4581803538,1441802
538,14418021,424,2411801
1,424,24118011,263,7711800
1,263,7711800Quarters.
Quarters.329dssdsdsdsssss328sssss327sssss326d.3d.s.43s.1822
d.3d.s.43s.1822d.3d.s.54s.1821
d.3d.s.54s.1821d.10d.s.65s.1820
d.10d.s.65s.1820d.9d.s.72s.1819
d.9d.s.72s.1819d.8d.s.83s.1818
d.8d.s.83s.1818d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was
d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was
d.3d.s.43s.1822
d.3d.s.43s.1822d.3d.s.54s.1821
d.3d.s.54s.1821d.10d.s.65s.1820
d.10d.s.65s.1820d.9d.s.72s.1819
d.9d.s.72s.1819d.8d.s.83s.1818
d.8d.s.83s.1818d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was
d.0d.s.94s.In 1817 the price was325324sssddsd.5sd.s.dsdsssdsd323ll.322321320319Mr. W. Whitmore
dsds briefly replied. He said, that in the temper of the House, he would not notice the arguments which had been brought against his proposition; but there was one personal imputation which he wished to correct. The hon. member for Surrey had stated, that he had caused great inconvenience by the notice of his motion; that since he had given notice of it, no sales could be effected but from day to day, and that the price of wheat had fallen. Now, he happened to have the returns of the price of wheat before him, and what was the fact? On February 15, 1825, the price was 60dsdsMr. Whitmore
355354353ss352 said, that the right hon. gentleman had, instead of fairly grappling with the question, merely repeated the assurance which he had given last session. The only reason which the right hon. gentleman gave for this was, because he feared an impending dissolution of parliament. Now, he thought the question of such importance, that if the necessary discussion of it took a much longer period than was reckoned upon, it ought immediately to be taken up; because the inconvenience of the suspense in which the country were now kept was of the utmost importance. How was a man to purchase an estate, or how could he calculate the rent of a farm, while things were in their present undefined state? When he considered the power which the landlords possessed over their tenantry, he must protest, on the part of the latter, against their being left in a situation in which they were at the mercy of the landlords. The persons interested in the question were the landlords: they were a powerful, though not a numerous class; they were the members of parliament, and those who made the members of parliament. He thought that he did not give an improper definition of the landed interest when he thus described it. It was not, in his opinion, very creditable to parliament that it should, under the present circumstances, or, indeed, under any circumstances, be thought incapable of considering the question. Much of the alarm which the landlords professed to feel, as to the proposed repeal of the prohibitory laws, was, he thought, groundless. The substitution of an equitable system of Corn-laws, for the present system, would not be injurious to the landed interest. It would, he admitted, occasion a considerable fall of rents, but at the same time it would create a corresponding advantage, by diminishing the prices of all articles of consumption, so that the landlords would not be such losers by the measure as they
355354353ss352Lord Milton
 seconded the motion.Mr. S. Wkitbread
 said, he had not had much experience in private business up stairs: but, from all he had ever heard on the subject, he was led to believe that there was something in the manner in which it was carried on not at all creditable to the House, or beneficial to the interests of the community. With regard to the hon. member's resolutions, it was difficult to say beforehand, how far the whole of them or any part of them, might be calculated, satisfactorily, to meet the evil which had been pointed out. That could only be ascertained by experience; and, after all they had heard on this question—after being informed of the manifest grievances which arose out of those committees as they were at present constituted—they were called upon to do the best they could for the improvement of the system. If the resolutions failed, or if there were any insurmountable difficulty in the application of them, it would be competent to parliament to alter or rescind them. But it would be very much to be lamented, if, on account of any apprehended difficulty, they were to let the matter lie over, as they had done last year, without making any attempt to ameliorate the system. He therefore should support the resolutions.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
378377 said, that, although he disapproved of the resolutions, he did not know, as yet, whether he should take the sense of the House upon them. He conceived that what the chancellor of the Exchequer had just said, was a very strong reflection on the conduct of persons whose proceedings it appeared from his own statement he had not witnessed. A great complaint was made, that members voted without hearing the evidence. Now, in that House individuals frequently decided on a subject without hearing the argument; and in the committees up stairs, gentlemen acted upon confidence, just as they did below. He knew not, for his own part, how any resolution of the House could alter this. The object of the present resolution was that the Speaker should alter the mode of composing committees, because it was found that for some counties there were fewer, and for others a greater, number of members to be called upon to serve on committees. As well might the hon. member who, he presumed from this, was a reformer, come to the House and pray an alteration in the elec-
378377Mr. Calcraft
 observed, that it would be impossible, in his opinion, to carry this complicated system into useful operation. The experiment might indeed be tried for a single session, but the duty imposed upon members was already sufficiently onerous. The effect of the resolutions would be, to increase litigation before the House and its committees; and this litigation would, of course, be attended with much additional expense to the parties concerned in private bills. He had no notion, that, after the trial of a single session, the project would be persevered in.Mr. Bankes
 said, that if, after a fair trial, the experiment did not answer, the machinery might be altered. All members would be liable to serve on the committees of appeal, and no exemption would be allowed. He did not think that at any time more than two days would be occupied by the additional investigation.Mr. S. Wortley
 again expressed his decided objection to all these needless and inconvenient forms, which would give rise to endless disputes and endless business. Already the severity of the calls upon the time of members was so great, that none but those of strong constitutions could endure it. If these ballots with locked doors, and all the other forms, were to take place before public business commenced, it would postpone it indefinitely. It was already a serious evil that discussions of important questions were deferred until so late an hour, that the House were weary before the principal topic of the night could be introduced. Ministers themselves were often unable to bring on debates until a most inconvenient hour. Under these circumstances, he should take the sense of the House upon the last resolution read from the chair.Mr. Calcraft
ll.382 said, that the case had not been fairly stated. The committee would not be called on to decide upon the conduct of any member. All that, they would have to do would be, to decide
ll.382Mr. S. Wortley
384383 said, that being one of those at whose suggestion those pictures had been purchased, he thought that the public had a right to be satisfied with respect to the transaction. He confessed that he knew of no other way in which purchases for the National Gallery could be so satisfactorily effected as by the recommendation of a committee of competent persons. It was under such au arrangement that those pictures had been purchased, and it was the intention of government that no purchases should in future be made without a similar recommendation. He thought that, when the House looked at the names of those by whom the purchase had been recommended, they would find that they had every security they could desire. Those names included the earl of Aberdeen, sir George Beaumont, and sir Thomas Lawrence. When he mentioned sir George Beaumont, he could not help observing, that at the very time he was advising this purchase, he was presenting his own collection [hear, hear!]. With regard to the share which he himself had had in
384383Sir C. Long
 agreed with the right hon. baronet, as to the propriety of purchasing separate pictures, and not whole collections. The three last purchased he considered works of great merit, and believed that one of them was worth nearly the whole sum paid for the three.Mr. Bankes
 objected strongly to the erection of any tribunal to arraign the conduct of members, where they might, as it were, be put upon their trial, and counsel employed against them, without the possibility of adequately meeting the charge. He was of opinion, that if the resolutions were carried, they would accomplish nothing by way of remedy for the existing evils.Lord A. Hamilton
374373372 said, that, in laying before the House the resolutions he was about to propose, he might take it for granted, that, as they had been printed, their details were already known to honourable members. In preparing those resolutions, and in moving the appointment of a committee to investigate this subject last year, nothing was further from his thoughts than the hope of devising an effectual and decided remedy for all the evils which were complained of as being connected with the present system of getting private bills through that House. He deemed it, however, necessary, for the benefit of the public at large, that some alteration should be made in the constitution of
374373372Mr. Littleton
 wished that, in the purchase of pictures for the national gallery, the names of those on whose recommendation they were selected, might be made known to the public; because the names of the selectors would be a pledge of the genuineness and excellence of the pictures. He highly approved of the beginning already made for the formation of a national gallery. By the selection of works like the pictures of Mr. Angerstein and those of sir G. Beaumont, we should soon have a most magnificent collection of the finest works of art.Mr. Hume
 expressed his approbation of the purchases already made. They were the first specimens of the first-rate artists. There could not be a better foundation for a national gallery of paintings than those bought of the late Mr. Angerstein. To these were to be added the magnificent collection of sir G. Beaumont.Mr. R. Colborne
 observed, that, if any malpractices occurred in a private-bill committee, under the present system, it was competent to any member to complain to the House, and to have the evil redressed. The hon. mover seemed to think that his plan would make members more scrupulous in the discharge of their duties on private committees than they were at present. But public opinion was the great corrective in cases of that kind, as well as in those of every other description where public men were employed. He knew very well that litigious men might defeat a measure up stairs, by delaying time, and increasing expense. But it was difficult to say by what possible means that could be prevented. His impression was, that individuals would feel very unwilling to encounter the expense attendant on an appeal to a select committee. He believed the House would find it impossible to apply any remedy to the evil, except by the adoption of a summary process.Mr. R. Colborne
376 gave his cordial assent to the resolutions. The great evil of the system, and that of which he must loudly complain, was the power which it gave to every member to come down to the House and vote on a bill without Laving heard or read a particle of the evidence relative to it. The only objection against the resolution was, that members could not find time to perform the duties which they imposed; but he had always understood, that members were sent to that House to give their time and attention to the discharge of
376Mr. S. Whitbread
 hoped the resolutions of the hon. gentleman would be agreed to. The unjust and disgraceful manner in which the private business of the House was carried on, rendered any change desirable. Any gentleman who entered a committee room must feel disgusted at the conduct of parties engaged in private bills. There was nothing like a fair and just consideration of the subject. He had seen every art exerted to defeat a bill, and every stratagem adopted to procure a vexatious and ruinous delay. If these resolutions were carried, it would put an end to this system, and with it, to those innumerable letters of invitation which gentlemen found on their tables every morning, soliciting them to come down and support bills without having heard one word of the evidence on which they were founded.Mr. W. Peel
380379 said, he felt one great objection to the plan now proposed, which had not yet been noticed. That objection struck him so forcibly, that he hoped the sense of the House would be taken on the resolution. It was impossible to carry into effect the resolutions, without increasing the trouble and labour of the members of that House. He, however, had never shrunk from any parliamentary labour that was imposed on him. He had taken the burthen on himself; and, therefore, he had no right to complain. But let it be recollected, that in the next parliament, not merely a great part, but the whole of the members of that House would probably be occupied on election committees; and let gentlemen calmly consider, what an immense load of additional labour would be thrown on the members and the officers of the House, if they were called on, under these resolutions, to ballot for select committees to consider private bills. For this reason, he would oppose the motion.380379Sir M. W. Ridley
 admitted, that the only real use he expected from the appointment of the committee of appeal was, that members would be deterred from a course hitherto sometimes pursued by them, by the knowledge that there was a tribunal before which their conduct in private committees might be investigated. Upon that conduct he would not now dilate, as it had already been sufficiently described and censured.Sir T. Acland
 said, that the present resolutions did not go precisely and directly to any one of the causes of complaint. He was afraid that the right of appeal to a select committee would not produce the benefit to the public which the hon. member anticipated, while the new system must inevitably throw a great deal of additional labour on the members of that House.Lord Althorp
381 contended, that it was impossible for the hon. member, with any certainty, to predict that the additional investigation before a committee of appeal would only occupy two days, when it was intended to admit counsel, who would exert all their ingenuity to spin out trifling questions to a most expensive and tedious
381Lord Milton
 the consul at Stettin, gives the following as the stocks in Pomerania.Mr. Leutze,
490 presented a petition from the Merchants of London trading to the West Indies, Mortgagees, and others, having claims upon West-India Estates, praying the interference of the House to give them some further protection for their property, or else compensation. He bespoke the earnest attention of the House to the complaints and representations of this respectable body of petitioners upon a subject of very considerable importance to the ultimate welfare of the empire. He could not but think this appeal to their consideration somewhat superfluous when he reflected that the petition which he was introducing to their notice was a claim of right upon the protection of the British parliament, in behalf of a species of property which was formerly reckoned, however now reduced below that standard, among the most sure and valuable in the possession of British subjects. And, that property in these colonies was no longer regarded with the same feeling of confidence as to its stability, it did not need this petition to tell them. The fact had long since established itself in the minds of those whose attention had been called to the subject. It had become matter of notoriety, and, at length, had reached that alarming point at which it was deemed necessary for the preservation of individual property, to call in aid the specific interference of parliament. He professed himself to be an anxious friend to the emancipation of the negroes from slavery; but it did not therefore follow that he was a disciple of the sect called the Abolitionists; or that he would league himself in any of the rash schemes proposed for the precipitation of that measure. If done at all, it could only be done, with safety and justice, by gradual approaches, by moderate and well-digested measures, preparatory in their nature, and carried into execution under the guiding hand of wisdom and discretion. In no other way could this most desirable end be attained. Valuable property, however, was tampered with by those who sought, by exaggeration, to excite the feelings and mislead the minds of the people of
490Mr. Baring
494 said, he was sorry that on the mere presentation of a petition on this subject, he could not feel himself at liberty to remain silent; but he must say something respecting the observations of the hon. member for Taunton. The hon. member had said, that there had been great exaggerations on both sides. Now, he would be glad to know who they were that thus exaggerated, and to whom the blame chiefly belonged. He maintained, that if there had been any, it was very little indeed, on the side of those who were anxious to ameliorate the condition of the negroes. Every document from the colonies showed that their statements had not been exaggerated; and he invited the hon. member for Rochester, who said "hear, hear!" to read those statements, and then to prove, if he could, that the charges of the degradation and oppression of the negroes by West-India planters were unfounded. Every charge made by the abolitionists would be borne out by these documents. Out of a pamphlet of a hundred pages, written by a distinguished individual, the hon. member who spoke last had quoted one short passage, which he considered as intemperate and exaggerated; but the hon. member had made no allowance for the very great provocation which that distinguished person had received from the zealous endeavours of the slavery partizans to hold him up to public indignation. It ought to be recollected, that the very able pamphlet in question had been written by a gentleman of high character, and great personal information on the subject. Whoever read that pamphlet, would find that it was the work of one who had great personal knowledge of the subject, as
494Dr. Lushington
495 said, he could not but feel that the pamphlet contained many exaggerations, although he was not prepared at present to point them out. There was one mis-statement in that work, however, to which he should now refer, for the purpose of supporting his assertion. He alluded to the branding of slaves. During the time that the slave trade was in existence, and slaves were imported in a state of the grossest barbarism, the practice had been resorted to, and was generally prevalent; but, as the black population became a Creole or native population, it was abandoned, and any one who should now attempt any thing of the kind, would be stigmatised and scouted by the planters. He did not mean to say that those who had been convicted in courts of justice might not be so branded; but the practice, as applicable to the creole population, under any other circumstances, had no existence whatever. He had heard it, however, repeatedly asserted, and within those walls, as well as in a variety of pamphlets, that it did exist, and the proprietors were stigmatised in consequence, as barbarous and inhuman monsters. He would also ask the hon. member whether, when the Legislative Assembly of Jamaica passed an act, to exempt slaves from working on Saturdays, it was not an exaggeration to say, that the act had been passed as much for the benefit of the masters as of the slaves? He challenged any hon. member to say, that it was for the benefit of the masters. If the hon. member would meet him fairly, and bring forward specific cases, he would pledge himself to convince him, that there had been gross exaggerations, and in channels where it was difficult to contradict them. It was easy, when the main party resided at a distance of four thousand miles, to bring forward accusations against him. It was not so easy to find the means of gainsaying those accusations, and this was a consideration which ought to weigh with the House, whenever any
495Mr. Bernal
 said, it should be borne in mind that there were upwards of 300,000 slaves in the island of Jamaica. His hon. friend, in his zeal against slavery, had taken up a copy of the Jamaica Gazette, and finding that some deserters were there stated to be marked, he concluded that all the negroes were branded. What he had stated was, that branding was a practice generally going into disuse. The negroes who had taken refuge in the workhouse were, it was to be presumed, notorious runaways, and that disposition rendered it necessary to mark them. They, however, bore but a small proportion to the whole negro population. He was a decided enemy to the practice himself, even with regard to runaways, and he was satisfied that it was by no means general.Mr. Bernal
500499 on rising pursuant to notice, to introduce a bill for the Registration of Aliens, observed, that when the Alien Act was last under discussion in 1824, a hope was expressed by his right hon. friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and by himself, that at the period to which the duration of that act was limitted, it might be possible to dispense with the powers of compelling aliens to leave the country, given by that measure to the executive government. The period had now arrived when those powers would cease, unless by the intervention of the House they were prolonged; as the act of 1824 would expire in November next. He was extremely happy to have it now in his power to fulfil the expectation which he had just alluded to, and to inform the House, that it was not the intention of his majesty's government to call for the prolongation of this law. In proposing the Registration bill on the present occasion, it was merely wished that the government should have that to which he thought there could be no possible objection; namely, a Registration of the
500499Mr. Secretary Peel,
 begged to express his entire concurrence in the opinion which had just been delivered by his noble friend. He was quite sure that the proposal of the right hon. gentleman would be hailed with gratitude, not only by those in that House, who were, upon constitutional grounds, the opponents of the Alien bill, but by the friends of just and liberal principles in every quarter of Europe. Indeed, he believed the government were hardly aware of the extent of benefit they were conferring by the abandonment of this measure. The Alien bill, whether in actual or threatened operation, was always reckoned by enlightened foreigners as one of those measures by which England had suffered herself to become connected with the arbitrary system of the continent. He could assure the right hon. gentleman that every intelligent traveller was impressed with the prevalence of this belief. The abandonment, therefore, of a system so abhorrent to the principles of the British constitution would be hailed all over Europe as the principal step—(in conjunction with those other liberal measures which had been lately taken by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs)—on the part of Great Britain to a return to that policy which had so long made her, through a bright succession of years of triumph, also the protectress of the oppressed, and the great patroness of public liberty all over the world. He was quite confident that his majesty's government would have no reason to repent the confidence they were disposed to place in the foreigners who had sought an asylum in this country, and that they would find themselves quite safe in reverting to the old policy and laws under which England had so long flourished. Before he sat down, he must say, that he could hardly find adequate terms in which to express his gratitude to the right hon. gentleman for the course he was about to pursue on the present occasion.Mr. Hobhouse
otiose,529 said, that the view which he took of the question would not require that he should trespass for any length of time on the attention of the House. Whether he viewed the motion as tending to excite the fears of those connected with West-India property, or to stimulate the zeal of those opposed to negro slavery, he thought it at the present moment unnecessary. One of his objections to it was, that it professed to be in furtherance of the views—as all those motions were said to be—of those who were favourable to such an improvement of the condition of the slaves as would lead to a gradual abolition of slavery. Such a motion, he would say, was at the present moment unnecessary. He spoke not so much in objection to this particular motion, as to the motives of which it was an evidence, and to the system of which it formed a part. If the motion were made from a suspicion that government was not sincere in what it proposed to do, it was not well-founded; and it was worse, as it might tend to counteract the effect of what was proposed to be accomplished. He would be satisfied that government should be judged by what it had proposed to do, and by the endeavours which it had made to carry its intentions into effect. If it were intended to do more than government had already proposed to do, the time for discussing that question would come when the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman came for consideration; but it was hardly fair thus to introduce as fractional parts, what was afterwards intended to be proposed as a whole. Mention had been made of public meetings on the subject of West-India slavery. He spoke of those meetings with every respect for the parties and the object they had in view; but when they proposed their resolutions as in aid of the objects of government, he must say that, in many instances, they were rather an incumbrance than an aid. For what was the object to be obtained? The over-weening zeal of parties on one hand was intended to meet what was called the obstinate resistance of the local legislatures on the other. But he would ask, would the meetings to which he bad alluded
otiose,529Mr. Secretary Canning
 opposed the motion. The House, he said, had already rejected a motion to prevent cruelty to domestic animals, dogs of course included, and therefore they could not, consistently, support the present motion.Sir M. W. Ridley
 expressed a hope, that the hon. member would include cats in his bill. It was well known that cats were worried by dogs, and were, therefore, entitled to equal protection. Speaking seriously, he thought the House by admitting this bill for the protection of dogs, without including cats, would act inconsistently; and that by admitting it at all, they would turn legislation into ridicule. He would submit it to the House, whether it should not endeavour to preserve itself from the ridicule which these legislative measures would cast upon it.Mr. Hume
 said, he would make only one observation, and that was, that the hon. member for Montrose had promised him his support to the bill.Mr. Martin
 said, that to the best of his knowledge, he had never made such a promise.Mr. Hume
 Then you did it without your knowledge.Mr. Martin.
531 said, he would oppose the present motion of his hon. friend, on the same ground that influenced his opposition to the last. He believed there was more injury done to the cause which his hon. friend wished to support, by the manner in which he brought forward the subject, than by any other circumstance. He would recommend his hon. friend to recollect, and act upon the advice of the hon. and learned member for Knares-borough, given on a former occasion; namely, to let public opinion and the acts of individuals remedy the evil complained of. Now, without wishing to be otherwise than serious, he could not help concurring in the remark, that if the House were to legislate for dogs, there was no reason why other animals ought not to be equally protected. We were now about to clear the Statute-book of an immense number of laws; but, if such measures as the one now proposed were adopted, it would be working at the web of Penelope, and the
531Mr. Secretary Peel
 opposed the motion, though he thought it desirable that acts of cruelty should be punished as misdemeanours.Mr. W. Smith
 defended the motion and himself against the ridicule which had been directed towards both. When he brought in a bill three years ago to prevent cruelty to animals, a noble lord who took the lead in the other House told him, that if it included dogs he would support it. He saw no reason why cattle should be protected, and, at the same time, that an animal so attached to man, as to be called the friend of man, should go unprotected. The cruelties practised on dogs were frequent and notorious. One instance occurred at Oxford, which, on account of its atrocity, deserved to be mentioned. He alluded to the act of a miscreant who sawed off a part of his dog's jaw because he thought it too long. Another case, communicated to him by Mr. Hall, the magistrate of Bow-street, was, that of two boys, who flayed a dog alive; after which, one of them led him upwards of two miles, and would have gone much further, had not a gentleman thrown him and the dog into a river. Notwithstanding the mirth it had excited, he saw no reason why cats should not be protected against cruelty, and he thought it was not very creditable to the hon. member for Montrose to attempt to throw ridicule upon the subject. He had already informed the House that the hon. member had promised him his support. He had now to communicate that hon. gentleman's reason for having, on the contrary, opposed his motion—"Because," said the hon. member for Montrose, "you did not vote against flogging in the army." He thought the House was bound, in consistency, after the support they had given to previous measures, not to oppose the bringing in of the bill.Mr. Martin
 said, he lamented much the difficulty there was in legislating upon such matters. It would be very desirable if some measure could be contrived that would be more general in its operation. He should be ready to give his support to any bill which had for its object to prevent such a brutal exhibition as that of dog-fighting.Mr. J. Benett
532 said, that the public were much indebted to the hon. member for his exertions. Great good had been de-
532Sir F. Burdett
 said, he did not think it the most advisable course to bring in, year after year, separate acts of this kind. The hon. mover had produced two instances of cruelty towards dogs, and said he could produce hundreds of cases of cruelty towards cats; yet the former he protected, and the latter He left without protection. He could not help thinking, with the hon. member for Norwich, that all cases of excessive cruelty might be fairly left to a British jury, as the law now stood.Sir T. Acland
 expressed his readiness to withdraw the present bill; but stated, that he would on a future day, introduce a measure of a more comprehensive nature.Mr. Martin
 observed, that while he felt as much as any man the justice of the principle on which his hon. friend proceeded, he much approved of his determination to withdraw this bill. Still, he must guard himself from being supposed, from the course which he took on this occasion, to say one word in favour of a more extensive measure, of which his hon. friend had given notice; and of which he could, of course, know nothing.Mr. Peel
518517516515514 said, that the greater part of the hon. member's speech was so little in keeping with the resolutions that he had submitted to the House, that he felt some difficulty in knowing whether he was to address his observations to the speech or the resolution. In the first instance he must object to a part of the hon. gentleman's resolution; for to say that the slaves still remained in a state of insecurity, was to say that the course which had been pursued by his majesty's government, and which had been sanctioned by the approbation of parliament, was insufficient to remove the existing evil. At that moment, the order in council which was issued in Trinidad was, with a few modifications, in full operation in Demerara, and would soon be so in Berbice. Under these circumstances, he owned he was at a loss to discover what practical advantage there could be in looking back to see what the law, and the usages under the law, had been. It would be much better, in his opinion, to look forward, and to anticipate the benefits which would result from the measures that had lately been adopted. It was perfectly true that a protector of slaves had been appointed for the colony of Demerara. He was an individual who, after a full inquiry into his qualifications and character, appeared to be perfectly competent to the important situation to which he had been
518517516515514Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, it was illegal under the general law of cruelty.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, he had not opposed the motion on the ground that it was an attack on the government. His objection to it was, that all which it pro-posed to do had already been done by government.Mr. Wilmot Horton
526525524 said, it appeared to him, that the House was called upon to decide this question; namely, whether it was proper that the management of" the colonies should be placed in the hands of the
526525524Mr. Baring
 in explanation, said, the phrase "not in unison with his own feelings," was applied to the sentences passed upon the culprits. Upon the details of the cruelties themselves, he had said, that they could not be read without horror and disgust.Mr. C. R. Ellis,
520519 said, he could not allow the conduct of the West-India planters to go undefended. He asserted that they treated their slaves with kindness and humanity, and, whenever they acted otherwise, it was well known that they were subject to the control and animadversion of parliament. It was equally well known, that their property was secured to them by the faith of parliament, and that, if any encroachment was made upon it, it was the bounden duty of parliament to afford them an adequate compensation. He was quite willing, however, to agree with what the
520519Mr. C. R. Ellis
 said, that the practice of branding, where it was unnecessarily applied, was not only regarded as cruel, but condemned as illegal. He knew an instance in which the owner of a slave had been prosecuted for this offence, under an act of the colonial legislature. If any doubt existed as to the fact, he pledged himself to produce the case.Mr. C. R. Ellis
496 said, that, on which ever side the alleged exaggerations might have preponderated, he held a paper in his hand which showed how far the zeal of the hon. member for Rochester would carry him. The hon. member had asserted, that it was not the general practice of the Jamaica planters to brand their negroes. Now he had happened to look at the Jamaica Gazette, and he found from that paper that it was still as common a practice to brand the negroes of the soil, or the freehold negroes, as to brand any others. There were freehold negroes, of the names of Bullock and Cæsar, stated to have been so branded on the shoulders and other places; and in the whole it appeared, out of a list of three or four columns, that twenty freehold negroes had been branded in the same manner. This was, therefore, an unfortunate instance, to prove that the Abolitionists had been guilty of exaggeration. One word as to Mr. Stephen. It was certainly not fair to read a single passage of a long pamphlet, as a proof of general exaggeration on the part of those who promoted
496Mr. Sykes
 said, he did not think it fair to call upon persons in official situations to answer questions put by members on the presentation of petitions, as had been done by the hon. gentleman behind him. He, therefore, thought that he was doing the House a favour when he in-treated his hon. friend (Mr. Horton) not to answer such questions.Mr. Canning
528527 said, he was compelled to complain of the gross misrepresentation of his hon. friend, both of members of that House, and of individuals out of that House forming the Anti-slavery Society. His hon. friend had charged that society with agitating the country on the subject of negro slavery, and with creating the feeling which existed abroad, and which would exist until it had produced an effect on the deliberations of that House, if necessary; on the conduct of government, if that conduct should require such influence; and last, but not least in this question, even on the West-India legislatures themselves. He, however, denied that the feeling which pervaded the country on the subject, was attributable to the agitations of the society, to the publications emitted by them, or to the speeches made at its meetings. No misrepresentations had been put forth by the society. They had made no appeal to the passions of mankind, but had only repeated facts stated in the first place, out of the mouths of the West-Indians themselves; and by those facts had the feelings of the people of England been unanimously roused. His hon. friend had stated, that he had not time to read the publications put forth by the society. In justice to the society, he wished his hon. friend would not find time to condemn publications which he could not find time to read. He himself had read the accounts of almost all the Anti-slavery Society meetings and, although the persons attending those meetings were naturally excited by the nature of the question with which
528527Mr. Brougham
493 said, that although he was an advocate for the amelioration of slavery, and although he admitted that much had been effected towards the attainment of that measure, he thought that the conduct pursued by persons in this country who professed themselves to be the advocates of emancipation, had retarded rather than promoted the great cause which they had espoused. Many members of the House, and more particularly those gentlemen who were interested in the West-India question, had most likely read a pamphlet, written by a master in Chancery, who once had been a member of the House. Whatever might be the opinion of hon. gentlemen of that work, he could not but think that it contained passages of a highly inflammatory and injurious nature. Mr. Stephen had dragged into the discussion persons and circumstances that had better have been omitted. What necessity, for instance, was there for the introduction of a passage like this: "You are zealous in the cause of the oppressed Greeks, and the feeling does you honour. You reprobate strongly the illiberal despotism that presses down its yoke on the necks of the unfortunate Spaniards; and it is a right and generous indignation. Can you then be insensible to the far more intolerable wrongs, to the far more goading oppression, which the poor Africans suffer under your own dominion? The Greeks have not yet been driven by the cart whip; and many a tyrant, more illiberal and ungrateful than Ferdinand, are maintained by British bayonets, as he by French ones, on the petty thrones of the plantations." He again contended that such exaggerated and illiberal language as this had a direct tendency to retard the march of genuine improvement. He was no enemy to the cause of negro improvement, when temperately and properly conducted; but he felt deeply the difficulties of the question; and whatever evils belonged or had belonged to the slave system, it ought to
493Mr. Warre
 said, if he thought that by passing the resolution, the good contemplated by the hon. mover, would be the consequence, he would give it his decided support; but as he was satisfied that, taking the sense of the House (be the result what it might) would produce consequences diametrically opposite to those anticipated by his hon. friend, and would have the effect of encouraging the colonial assemblies in their opposition to the wishes of his majesty's government, he would suggest the propriety of withdrawing the motion.Mr. R. Martin
522521 said, he did not think with the hon. member who had last addressed the House, that the pressing of this resolution to a division could have the effect of better enabling the colonial assemblies to resist the wishes of parliament and the government. The hon. gentler man who last but one had addressed the House, had, very unjustly, accused the hon. mover, with having indulged in a desultory speech, but that hon. member, appeared to him to have followed the course which he had so much deprecated. He had not heard any observation from
522521Mr. Denman
 said, that if that were the case, he had misunderstood the hon. gentleman, and the time of the House had been wasted in useless discussion. He thought, however, that it would not be improper to confirm what had been done by government, by a resolution of that House, and on that account he would vote for the motion, if his hon friend should press it to a division.Mr. Denman
523 said, he certainly understood that the brand mark was considered as coming within the operation of that law, but he repeated, that there was no specific act of the legislature declaring it to be illegal. What possible objection there could be to the motion of his hon. friend he was at a loss to imagine. It had been admitted on all hands, that the office which had been instituted of nominal protector of the slaves was an inefficient one; and the effect of this motion would be, to give to the slaves the benefit of real protection. The fiscal had made, in the cases alluded to by his hon. friend near him, some very incorrect returns. By those and other returns, it was clearly shown that great and excessive cruelties had been practised upon the negroes. And could any man deny that the penalties which had been, in a few instances, inflicted upon those who had been guilty of such cruelties, were disproportionate to the enormity of the offence? For his own part, he had been exceedingly astonished to hear an hon. member say of them, "that they were not in unison with the feelings of his own mind." Now, really, when a gentleman of the cultivated mind and kindly feelings which that hon. member was known to possess, could content himself with applying so mild an expression to a case where the most enormous and disgusting atrocities had been visited with so lenient a hand, he felt that
523Mr. Denman
 said, he could not retract the remark he had made; inasmuch as, in his view of the matter, the conduct of the fiscal in inflicting light sentences, where the most enormous offences had been committed, was even more reprehensible than the commission of such acts of violence, under certain circumstances.Mr. Denman
 entirely concurred in the praise which had been bestowed upon the right hon. gentleman on the present occasion. He was glad of the abandonment of this measure, for he knew that it was a modern innovation of only thirty three years standing, and that it was a most unnecessary measure; for this country had, through all previous times, maintained her policy towards strangers without the infliction of such oppression. Still he was glad of the change, and congratulated the House upon the termination which it would put to a system in itself unjust and oppressive, and which no existing circumstances could make longer necessary.Mr. Denman
497 did not think, that the planters ought to suffer unfounded statements against them to pass uncontradicted. It was due to them to repel such statements when made. A learned friend of his had denied that any exaggeration had been used by those who supported the question of amelioration. Now, a petition from London, signed by 70,000 persons, had been presented in favour of amelioration. And how had that petition been got up? The representation of a negro in chains had been exhibited all over London, and by means of this exhibition, which had a tendency to create the most unfavourable impression against the planters, a great part of these signatures had, no doubt, been obtained. In truth many of the petitions had been got up in a manner disgraceful to the cause. The Anti-slavery Society had sent round the country printed forms of petitions, and used many other unfair means to promote their object; and, if any thing could be more unfair than another, it was the holding out to the people, that the ministers expected their petitions, in order to enable them to carry their purposes into effect. He trusted ministers would know their duty better titan to pay any regard to popular clamour; and that they would proceed upon a sound, temperate, and deliberate view of what the real interests of the country demanded. Another point in some of these petitions deserved notice. They spoke of a protecting duty on West-India sugar, which the petitioners seemed to wish done away with, and so to put an end to slavery. But we had done much more for the amelioration of the slaves than had been done by the Brazilians, some of the
497Mr. Thomas Wilson
 said, that if the hon. gentleman would take the trouble of looking at the petition, he would find that it did not pray for the introduction of sugar by free labour, and not by slave labour, to the prejudice of the West-India manufacturers. He confessed, however, that he did not think it fair that sugar made by free labour should be subject to a higher duty than that which was produced by the labour of slaves.Mr. Evans
 said, it was impossible to refute such general charges as those which were always brought forward in discussions on this subject. He had read the pamphlet which had been alluded to, and entertained the highest respect for its author, but he could not justify the language which was used in some parts of it. He would appeal to the under Secretary of State for the colonies, whether the petitioners stated the truth or not, when they asserted that there were 800,000 slaves in a state of degradation and misery. He knew, from personal experience, that there was gross exaggeration in the pictures which had been drawn of the state of the slave-population in the West Indies. Abuse was not the way to promote improvement, but, on the contrary, to obstruct it.Mr. Manning
 said, that the difficulty might be obviated by the alien telling the officer, confidentially, what his name really was. The regulation he considered necessary as it might be desirable, on some occasions, to know the number of aliens in the country, and the particular points to which they were resorting.Mr. Peel
498 entreated the attention of his hon. friend, the member for Rochester, for whom he had the greatest respect, while he undertook to convince him that gentlemen of his description on this side of the water were ignorant of what was passing on the other side. His hon. friend had stated, that branding negroes was a practice now never heard of in the West Indies. Now, he held in his hand the supplement to the Royal Gazette of Jamaica, published on the 16th of February, 1826, in which was an account of the apprehended deserters then in the Clarendon workhouse. The first mentioned was Dick, a Creole negro, marked with the letter H. The next was named Richard Smith, also a Creole negro, five feet four inches high, and marked with the letters W. S. and a diamond above them. The hon. gentleman read several other instances of the same kind in St. Mary's Workhouse. One half of the deserters, he added, were Creole negroes, and they were all marked. For his part, he solemnly declared, that if he lived in Jamaica, he would rather run the risk of never getting his Creoles again, than offend the eyes and the ears of the British people by inflicting so inhuman and degrading a stigma. The slaves thus treated must be
498Mr. W. Smith
513512511510509508507506505504503 in rising to make his promised motion, respecting the treatment of Slaves in the colonies of Demerara and Berbice, observed, that the subject was so interesting, important, and fertile in difficulties, as well as in the many considerations it involved, that he deemed it better to treat it by piecemeal, than bring the whole bearings of the question at once before the House. The angry discussions which took place on the subject were caused by the claim set up on the part of the planters, to a property in the body of man. They all contended, that they had an
513512511510509508507506505504503Mr. William Smith,
492491 said, he rose merely to repel the insinuations of the hon. member, against the abolitionists, and to deny every word and every assertion to their prejudice uttered by the hon. gentleman, or contained in the petition on the table. He thought he could not better illustrate the question at issue between himself and the hon. member, than by reading a few lines from a petition which was presented to that House on Friday last, from the Board of Council and House of Assembly of the island of Antigua, which set forth, "That, year after year the memorialists have represented the distressed situation of that colony, produced by the continuation of the war-duties on their staple commodities, during a period of twelve years' peace, in utter disregard of the pledge given at the time of the augmentation of those duties by the ministers of the day, that such duties should cease on the return of peace and tranquillity; that, although no notice has been hitherto taken of the just claims of the memorialists to relief, they trusted the time would yet arrive when they should be allowed to participate in the prosperity enjoyed
492491Mr. W. Smith
502 did not rise to detain the House while he paid a tribute of justice to the right hon. gentleman. But it was due from him to say, that not only had the powers of this bill not been abused during the administration of the right hon. gentleman, but he could, from his own personal communications, bear testimony, that he had, upon various opportunities, found him most anxious to do justice to the claims of foreigners, and
502Sir R. Wilson
 congratulated the right hon. gentleman on the liberal course which he had just taken, and expressed his perfect confidence that no inconvenience whatever would arise from the expiration of the Alien bill, but that, on the contrary, the relaxation of such a; system of uncongenial policy would operate beneficially for the country.Lord Althorp
 said, he heard with pain the personal remarks which had been made on the lord chancellor, and considered it an unjustifiable use of the privileges of that House to drag, needlessly, as he conceived, the name of an individual who filled a high public office, into their discussions.Mr. Green
 said, that the petitioner admitted, on the face of his petition, that he had made illegal charges; that he had charged for copies which he had never delivered. He was astonished that such a petition should have been presented, and still more astonished that it should have been presented by the hon. member. The hon. member had adverted to the expression of a few years; but it was not till a lapse of ten years after the transaction, that there existed any free agent to apply for opening the taxation. Even in the law courts, although costs had been regularly taxed, yet, if it appeared afterwards that the taxation had been illegal, that taxation would be opened. This power in the courts was absolutely necessary, in order to their having a proper control over agents and solicitors. So that, even on the face of his own petition, the petitioner had made out no case.The Solicitor-General
547546l545 said, that, before he submitted the motion of which he had given notice, he was anxious to remove some misconceptions which prevailed as to the true nature of the object he had in view. It was erroneously conceived by some persons, that he proposed to make it imperative on vestries to assess the respective parishes for the expenses of building Roman Catholic chapels; such was not the case. It was also stated that he wished to make some new and daring alteration.—Both suppositions were untrue. In fact, he proposed no novelty, but rather to legalize a practice which had, in some instances, been already resorted to. The proceedings in vestries had generally been of a very loose description; some of the items, as detailed in the parochial returns presented to the House were not only unwarranted by law, but in direct violation of legislative enactment; whilst others were of a very ludicrous description. In one case, a charge had been made on the parish for the expense of a suit of robes for a favourite rector, who had received preferment, and it was deemed fitting to present him with robes suitable to his doctor's degree, and this at the expense of the parish. If he understood rightly the object of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Goulburn) in introducing the bill now before the House, it was to introduce a legal mode of proceeding in vestries, and to prevent them from raising money not strictly warranted by law. Now it so happened, that hitherto, although many improper assessments had been made, there were others, which, though not strictly legal, were still justified by good fellowship and christian feel-
547546l545Mr. Spring Rice
548 said, that he would omit to notice any of the other considerations which pressed upon his mind, not because they were unimportant, but because the hon. gentleman had put them out of the question, and would confine himself to the single point of the power which ought or ought not to be given to the Protestant vestries of Ireland, in the terms comprehended in the proposed instruction. The hon. gentleman had said, that the present bill had grown out of a wish to repress the variety of assessments by Protestant vestries—assessments which had extended to objects which were not contemplated by the existing law. Undoubtedly, it was to correct this evil, which went to an extent demanding the interposition of parliament, that the present bill was introduced, and introduced, as he had thought, with the unanimous concurrence of all who were acquainted with the merits of the subject. It was a measure which was in a great degree founded on the recommendation of the committee on Irish affairs, which sat during the last session; and it merely limited the province of the vestry to those objects which they were legally entitled to assess for. The hon. member appeared anxious to impress upon the House that the bill tended to introduce a new practice, and that, if passed, it would take away the power which the Protestant vestries at present possessed of assessing for the repair of Roman Catholic chapels. But that was by no means the case. Whatever power the Protestant vestries possessed now they would possess after the bill had passed into a law. To make a compulsory assessment on the parish for the building or repair of a Roman Catholic chapel was at present illegal; and so it would remain after the passing of the bill. The bill would throw no obstacle in the way of any Protestant who might like to contribute to the building or repair of a Roman Catholic chapel, or a Presbyterian meeting-house. He might still yield whatever aid of that description he thought proper to afford. To the assessment for such a purpose by the majority of a Protestant vestry he objected; because, instead of being liberal themselves, it only gave them the power of being liberal at the expense of other persons. They did not contribute out of their own pockets, but they assessed a body of unwilling parishioners, for a pur-
548Mr. Goulburn
550llllll549 adverted to the extraordinary inequality of the treatment which the Catholics and the Protestants received
550llllll549Sir J. Newport
ssdd553552551 objected to the measure of his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, because it compelled the House to decide upon two such propositions as the clause now brought forward, and that relative to an assessment for the poor, of which notice had been given. He admitted, as he had done on a former occasion, that there were great legal irregularities in the expenditure of the church-rates in Ireland; but he contended that these irregularities were not of a nature or an amount to justify legislative interference. In respect to the assessment upon land by a Protestant vestry, for the support of a Homan Catholic chapel or dissenting meeting-house, he had shown, on a former occasion, repeated instances of the willingness of the Protestants of Ireland to exceed the law for the benefit of their Roman Catholic and dissenting neighbours, and he had no objection to such exercise of their benevolence, so long as it could not be claimed under any law; but, though he would not pass a law forbidding it, and though he could not, therefore, concur in the bill itself, because he thought that it fettered unnecessarily the parishes of Ireland,—certainly took away the discretion which they had hitherto exercised in a way calculated to increase general good feeling,—he would not, on the other hand, make himself a party to legalizing the erection of a Roman Catholic chapel by an assessment which would be compulsory on the Protestant minority in a parish. The clause, if carried, would take
ssdd553552551Sir R. H. Inglis
554 said, he thought the great advantage of this bill was, that it made the charges, to which a parish was subjected, definite. He agreed with the right hon. baronet opposite, that it was a great abuse for the Protestant vestry of a parish to make rates of the sort he had alluded to, such as building houses for the parish clerks, and supplying a profusion of wine; they were, doubtless, great abuses, and ought to be prevented by law, and this bill would have the effect of doing it. These vestries were to be considered as so many little parliaments in their several parishes; but their powers ought to be as clearly defined as possible. It ought to be distinctly laid down to what objects the money raised under their authority should be applied, According to the present practice, many of the parishes in Ireland, in reality, levied poor-rates. The practice was gradually creeping into more extensive adoption; and deprecating, as he did, the application of the poor-laws to that country, he must con-
554Mr. Secretary Peel
555 supported the clause, and said, that all the difficulties which were met with in Ireland, and in no other part of the empire, or of the world, arose from the anomalous nature of her church-establishment. In other countries, the church-establishment was agreeable to the majority of the nation. In Ireland, the church-establishment was the religion of a very small minority, who imposed their own rates on the large majority. Why did not difficulties of this kind arise
555Mr. W. Smith
 said, he was for supporting the church-establishment of Ireland, not for Ireland alone, but as Ireland formed a part of the empire; and, as he could not agree to the latitudinarian principle of the clause, he should oppose it.Mr. Trant
, agreeably to the notice he had given, rose to move the repeal of the 5th section of the act of 4 Geo. 4, cap. 86, which authorizes the archbishops and bishops, in cases where there is no church in a parish, to order the assessment of rates for repairing the church of the next adjoining parish; such rates to be levied on the inhabitants of the parish having no church. He contended, that this clause was a most tyrannical one, and liable to very great abuse, as there were many parishes in Ireland in which there was not a single Protestant, yet those parishes would be compelled to pay rates for the repairs of the adjoining parish church.Sir John Newport
 defended the law as it stood. The principle of it was not new, or applicable to the Irish church only; for the same principle prevailed in the law of England.Mr. Goulburn
 said, the cases of England and Ireland were not at all parallel. If the question were left to the constituted bodies of the two parishes to make the union if they thought proper, he would be quite satisfied.Mr. S. Rice
 said, he believed, as the law now stood, the bishop was authorized to order a church to be built in parishes where there was none; and as there might be two parishes adjoining, and one church sufficient for both, it would be a saving to the parish having no church to contribute to the rates of the adjoining parish, instead of being obliged to build a new one for themselves.Mr. Peel
556 said, that the bishop had no more power to compel the erection of a church in an adjoining parish than the grand jury had to compel the making of a road in an adjoining county. The
556Mr. S. Rice
 said, he knew the case of one parish in which there were no Protestants, except the police stationed there; and to that parish the bishop united another, and the parishioners had more than five miles and a half to go to attend divine service. The great evil was, that the hierarchy of Ireland had, within the last 150 years, allowed the churches to go to decay, and now there was a call upon the Roman Catholic population to repair them. The more this grievance was looked into, the more severe would be found the pressure upon the members of that persuasion. He regretted to see this system of taxation by the church treated with such indifference by that House.Sir J. Newport
 said, that he had never meant to defend any abuse in the levying of the church-rates, but he had merely remarked, that if a parish church happened to be out of repair, the bishop had a strict legal right to compel the parishioners to repair it.Mr. Secretary Peel
lllddd said, that, in reference to the last point, he believed there was in existence a very curious return, stating the number of churches in Ireland in the beginning of the 17th century. He was informed, that this return stated, that in Wexford there were, at that time, twenty churches. In the year of the Restoration, 1660, only one was left, the rest having been destroyed, not by the neglect of the bishops, but by the consequences of great rebellion. In reference to the first point, the grievance, upon the ground of which alone the right hon. baronet had introduced his clause, which only, at least, he had alleged in illustration of the necessity of it, was, he apprehended, the case of Clonarmy, from which the right hon. baronet had presented a petition a few weeks ago. Now, this case of grievance was as follows:—it was a parish of 1093 acres, inhabited by a considerable population, probably, therefore, good land, and the tax was, in the first year of its union with Castletown Delvin, 6¾llldddSir R. H. Inglis
 said, that there were two churches within ten miles of his house, which were suffered to go to ruin; and when a remonstrance was made to the then diocesan on the subject, he treated the representation with neglect. The consequence was, that the Protestants left the place; and those churches were now ordered to be rebuilt at the expense of the Roman Catholic inhabitants.Sir J. Newport
 said, that the duties of the clergy in Ireland were now, at a moment of peculiar delicacy and difficulty, discharged in a manner which, when compared with any former period of history, redounded highly to the credit of the established church.Mr. Goulburn
 said, he rose for the purpose of submitting a clause to the committee, which he should think himself in some degree criminal if he did not propose. The object of it was, to enable such parishes as might be so disposed, to make an assessment for certain classes of the poor. This had been done in several parishes in the county of Armagh, and no inconvenience was found to result from it. The priest very willingly cooperated with the rector, and great good was thus produced. It would be desirable that parishes should at least have the discretion of making such provision if they should think fit.Mr. Grattan
 thought it would be better if the hon. member brought forward the proposition in some way more calculated to excite attention. It was a subject of importance, and worthy of more consideration than could be given to it at present.Mr. Croker
 said, he had for some time been endeavouring to ascertain what the state of the poor in Ireland was. The subject was worthy of serious consideration, and he could not now allow any clause of the kind to pass, unless accompanied by a full inquiry into the state of the poor of Ireland. He hoped, therefore, that his hon. friend would withdraw it for the present. It was matter of serious charge against the government, and against the committee which had been sitting for two years, that they instituted no inquiry into the subject. The committee omitted what they were bound to have done, by making no report on the state of the poor.Mr. J. Smith
558 said, he never would consent to entail upon Ireland the additional misery of a system of poor-laws. In a
558Sir R. Heron
 regretted, that the hon. member did not mean to press his bill. As to the petitioners, they were anxious to be placed more under the inspection of their respectable neighbours, and less at the mercy of common informers.Mr. Hobhouse
537 stated, that the petition had been communicated to him, and that he had in consequence made inquiries into the circumstances of this case. He thought no clear case was made out, even on the petitioner's own shewing; but this he thought was clear, that there existed a systematic attempt to hunt down the lord chancellor. The hon. member for Montrose came with a petition, complaining of a bill of foreclose, and pronounced the Chancery, and the lord chancellor, to be a curse to the country; and then came the hon. member for Hull with a petition, complaining of the issuing of a taxation of costs, upon the same system of running down the lord chancellor. The petition was a long one, but did not shew a very favourable case. However, the real state of the case was this: the petitioner, an attorney, sued out a commission of lunacy, and acted for a committee and the next of kin; and had got a considerable sum of money in his hands. He took a bond besides for the payment of costs at a particular rate, and this bond was illegal, for it was illegal for a solicitor to take any bonds from his clients for the payment of a larger sum in the way of costs than was allowed by the rules of the court. He had got his costs taxed, and they had been allowed without opposition, because one of the parties had become bankrupt, and there was no opposing party to check them. The costs had been therefore improperly taxed; and then a few years after there came a petition from the next of kin, stating these matters, and that the petitioners had charged for copies of papers which he had never made. What was the lord chancellor to do under such circumstances? He acted in the manner which even the
537The Solicitor General
 presented a petition from the Licensed Victuallers of St. James's Westminster, complaining of the present system of closing public-houses at night. According to the existing law, the magistrates had the power of punishing publicans for keeping their houses open at what were called "unseasonable hours," the definition of which they themselves had to decide upon. It was a great hardship that, under that regulation, publicans were liable to be punished, upon the statement of a common informer, without having any riot or disturbance in their houses. Tradesmen in general were unable to leave there business before ten or eleven at night, and it was too bad that they should be deprived of that fair recreation which they were in the habit of indulging in the parlours of public-houses. The publicans had no objection to clearing their tap-rooms, the place most likely to be visited by idle or disorderly persons, at the prescribed hour; but it was a hardship to close their doors and empty their parlours at that time. And to this they were subject; while oyster-shops, coffee-shops, saloons, and other disorderly places, were allowed to remain open all night. If the present system was persevered in, it would ruin the best part of the trade.Mr. Hobhouse
ds536 said, that he held in his hand a petition on an interesting and important subject; namely, the abuses of the court of Chancery. Though he would not adopt the energetic language of his hon. friend on a former night, when he stated that the court of Chancery was a curse to the country, he would assert, that he thought its administration any thing but a blessing. He meant nothing personal to the learned lord who presided there; but complaints of suffering and abuses came from so many parts of the country, that he might go so far as to say, that the court of Chancery was a nuisance, and that, like other nuisances, it ought to be abated. The petition with which he was intrusted, was not from a suitor of the court, but from an individual who had, for twenty-five years, faithfully and honourably discharged his duties as a solicitor, and to whose character he could personally bear testimony. The petition was almost as prolix as a bill in Chancery, but the substance might be more briefly stated. The petitioner had been engaged in a lunatic commission, and the gravamen of his complaint was, that although his bill of costs, as long since as 1814, had been taxed allowed, and actually paid, yet, that in 1826, it had been again opened by a proceeding in Chancery. His clerk was dead, his documents dispersed, but receiving the order of the court, he had hastened to town, and consented to the re-taxation: day after day, and week after week, he had attended, and the result was, that
ds536Mr. Sykes
 asked whether the hon. and learned gentleman really thought that he had made out no case The hon. and learned gentleman said, that the costs had been improperly taxed. How did that appear? They were taxed in the usual mode of the court; and what else could be called a fair and proper taxation? Then it was said that the petitioner had been solicitor for opposite parties. He denied it. He had been solicitor for two parties, but not for opposite parties. This was quite common in the practice of the court; and he understood that the Chancery report now on the table permitted it. Then the hon. and learned gentleman said that it was only in a few years after the costs had been taxed, that the taxation had been opened. Was a period of twelve years so little thought of in the court of Chancery? It appeared that they reckoned there, not by years, but by generations! Nothing under twenty, thirty, or forty years, was worth consideration. He contended that no sufficient answer had been given to the petition.Mr. Sykes
543lllllll542 said, he should detain the House with only a few observations; but he trusted they would be quite conclusive. The hon. gentleman had never dealt more unfairly towards any individual, than he had that evening towards him. What was the charge against him? That he had been guilty of bribing the press of Ireland. On what did the hon. gentleman found his arguments in support of this charge? Principally on a paper laid before the House in 1819, long before he had any connection with the Irish government. Another evidence of the unfairness of the hon. gentleman was, that he had
543lllllll542Mr. Goulburn
544, in explanation, stated, that
544Mr. Hume
l541llllll said, that he had long been endeavouring to persuade the House to pay attention to the description of vote called for in this instance. In his view of the case, it was partly intended to bribe the public papers in Ireland. He had lately moved for a return of the sums allowed to the different papers in Ireland; and the conclusion might naturally be, that the largest sums for proclamations and advertisements would be allowed to the papers of greatest circulation. No such thing. It appeared, that the "Patriot" had been established by Mr. Wellesley Pole, when Irish secretary, to oppose the "Correspondent," then an opposition paper; and that 1,200l541llllllMr. Hume
538 said, he would take that opportunity of stating, that, after having had time for consideration, he was still of the same opinion as before, with respect to the court of Chancery. Such an opinion he thought himself justified in entertaining and expressing, of a system, by which justice was in effect denied to millions, and the severest mental torture inflicted; and he called upon those who had exerted themselves so zealously in opposition to the infliction of bodily torture, to do every thing in their power to put down this dreadful nuisance. This, which was called a court of equity, was, in fact, a court of iniquity. The hon. and learned gentleman said, that a "few" years after the costs had been taxed, the taxation had been opened. How many of these "few" years did the hon. and learned gentleman expect to have in his life? The hon. and learned gentleman thought twelve years a very moderate time, parliament ought certainly to put an end to such a method of proceeding. When the matter was formerly under consideration, the hon. member for Surrey, and others, had held out the Chancery and the lord chancellor as blessings to the country; but God preserve him from
538Mr. Hume
535 said, that the hon. member must be aware, that some such regulation
535Mr. Estcourt
 repelled the imputation, that the masters in Chancery in Ireland gave their advertisements unfairly to particular papers. On a former occasion, he had told the hon. gentleman, that his informants were guilty of wilful misrepresentation. He repeated that assertion, and he challenged the hon. gentleman to support his statements by proof. When he first came into office, he found that, twenty years ago, certain papers had been selected by the four masters, as the most fitting for their advertisements. It was for the interest of the suitors that the same papers should always be used, as by following that course, the public knew where to look for notices of that nature. One of these papers was "Saunders's Newsletter," a paper almost exclusively devoted to advertisements, and circulating, principally in the city of Dublin. No political feeling could have led to the selection of this paper, as it was a singular feature in it, that it had no politics at all. "The Correspondent" was another paper comprised in this selection. The circulation of that paper was 300,000, the maximum of the Irish papers being 334,000. Twenty years ago, when the selection was made, it had the greatest circulation in Ireland. No statement, therefore, could be more unfounded, than that the masters had been guided by political feelings in the distribution of their advertisements. Another fact stated by the hon. gentleman opposite, he was prepared to contradict as unequivocally. He alluded to the alleged contract between government and the Wide-street Board, by which the latter had agreed to supply to particular papers the deficiency of what the former disbursed in advertisements. He was one of the commissioners of that Board, and it was impossible that any such contract could have been made without his knowledge; and he therefore could tell the hon. gentleman again, that his informants had been guilty of wilful misrepresentation. The expenses of the Wide-street Board had diminished one-half during the very time when this contract was stated to have been in operation.Mr. T. Ellis
 suggested that the whole difficulty respecting this question might be obviated, if the duty on advertisements was relinquished, and the papers compelled to insert the government advertisements gratuitously. At present, the object of publicity was defeated by the practice of giving those advertisements to the papers which had the least circulation.Sir J. Newport
 spoke of the enormous income enjoyed by the present rector—an income which was entirely too large in proportion to the size of the parish.Mr. Ald. Wood
564 said, that, without offering any remark on the present petition, he could not resist the inclination which he felt to protest against the unjustifiable attack of the hon. member for Montrose on the conduct of the right rev. prelate, whose name had been introduced on the present occasion. The hon. member asked, why had that right rev. prelate interfered in an arrangement between the rector and the parishioners? In doing so, the bishop of London had only consulted the interest of the church of which he was one of the heads, to prevent an arrangement, the benefits of which should not be extended to the incumbent who might succeed the present. The bishop of London had not appointed the present rector, and therefore he could not have acted from any partial feeling in pursuing the course which he had taken. The hon. gentleman asked, why should this parish pay more than others? If the hon. member knew any thing of the state of England, he must know that parties in one parish might consent to an arrangement by which they might be taxed more or less than the inhabitants of an adjoining parish; and this arrangement might take place without any regard to the relative extent of those parishes. There were numerous parishes situated like that from which this petition had been forwarded; and he could not see that the present
564Mr. Wynn
 said, he had no intention to enter into the merits of the question between the parties in this case. His only object in rising was to protest against the term "fire-brand," which the hon. member for Montrose had thought proper to apply to the bishop of London.Mr. Wynn
 begged leave to say, that so far from any blame being attached to the bishop of London, he thought he had done as much to reconcile the parties as he possibly could, considering the station which he filled. The chief difficulty the bishop had to contend with was, to make a suitable provision for the future incumbents of the parish. He was the natural protector of the church, and was bound to see that its interests were duly guarded. It was his duty to protect the charge which had been confided to his care, in the same way that trustees were bound to watch over the property committed to their management. The state of the parish of St. Olave was certainly such as to call for the interference of the House.Mr. Calcraft
 expressed his regret that he was not in the House when the hon. member for Montrose had made use of such unwarrantable observations with regard to the venerable prelate whose name had been used in the present discussion. The member who could so far commit himself as to deal forth his invectives in that unwarrantable manner against a prelate who was not more distinguished by the exalted station which he filled, than by his piety and learning, grossly abused the privilege he enjoyed as a member of that House. Was it, he would ask, to be tolerated—was it manly or decent—to apply the term "fire-brand" to the venerable and respected bishop of London. Had the hon. gentleman, who had thought fit to use that term, been in a more exalted station than that which he filled in the estimation of the House, a more serious notice should have been taken of such conduct. And, what was it that called for the hon. gentleman's remark? The bishop of London had shewn the utmost anxiety to produce an amicable arrangement; and he had no other feeling, no other interest to advance than that which a sense of his duty dictated. Was it fair or just, then, to brand him with such offensive terms? The bishop had acted according to the best of his judgment in adopting the course which he had taken; and he had, of course, acted with a due regard to the interests of the church over which he was called on to preside. Whatever obstacles the settlement of the tithes question in that parish had met with, he was satisfied that the bishop of London had acted according to the dictates of his reason and his conscience, and that those obstacles had not been started by him from any unworthy motive.Mr. Secretary Peel
567 said, that in rising to present the petition of the Catholics of Ireland, praying relief from the political disabilities under which they so unjustly laboured, he felt he was not justified, under existing circumstances, in going at any length, or indeed at all, into the merits of the general question itself, the principle of which had so often received the sanction of that House. At the same time, he was anxious to avail himself of this opportunity to entreat the House to consider once more the deep interest which this subject was calculated to excite—to assure them of his own deep and unalterable sense of the justice of the claims of these petitioners—and not only of their justice, but of the sound policy, wisdom, and reason, of attending to them. As it was not his intention to bring on any formal discussion upon the prayer of this petition, it would not, perhaps, be altogether fair in him, were he, on the present occasion, to use the indulgence usually shown to the presenter of a petition, for the purpose of saying more upon the general view of the case, than that he seriously recommended the House to consider what reception they ought to give to claims so founded on reason and truth—claims, too, which never could be laid at rest until they were satisfied—claimswhich all who spoke with proper opportunities of knowing the real state of Ireland concurred in describing as interwoven with the best interests of six millions of people, whose national character stood so high for honesty, industry, and virtue, that its people to whom it was attached were described by the first minister of the Crown as being the most useful examples of laborious industry which were to be seen in
567Sir Francis Burdett
587586585584583582l.,l.l.l.,l.,581580579 said, he did not rise to offer any objection to the petition, still less to enter into any statements in answer to the hon. member's speech—a speech in which the hon. member had touched upon almost all the topics on both sides of this important subject. He was the less inclined to enter into the Question now, as, from there being no
587586585584583582l.,l.l.l.,l.,581580579Mr. Secretary Canning
 assured the noble lord, that it was the intention of government to undertake the task to which he alluded, and submit to the attention of parliament, as soon as possible after a proper consideration of the Report, such measures as they deemed advisable. Under these circumstances, he thought it would be unnecessary to enter at present into any consideration of the subject.Mr. Wilmot Horton
603602601600599598597 said, that after the very full inquiry and ample discussion which this subject had undergone upon a former occasion, he trusted he should be excused if he declined to follow his bon. and learned friend through all the topics
603602601600599598597The Attorney-General
609608607606 commenced by expressing his dissent from the proposition which had been submitted to the House. Two years ago the same subject had been under discussion, when the deliberations upon it were conducted with so much ability and acuteness, that he must confess—although he was aware that in doing so he should incur the charge of weakness—his opinion had oscillated, and he had entertained some doubts on the question. He thought, in the then state of his mind, that it would be better and more safe to give the benefit of those doubts to the existing system, and he had accordingly voted against the motion. The subsequent reflection and examination which he had bestowed on the subject had convinced him that he was right. He regretted that he could not on this occasion associate himself with the hon. and learned mover in the labour of reforming the legal institutions of the country; but he felt at the same time that he should little deserve the flattering opinion which the hon. and learned gentleman had expressed of him, if he suffered himself to be influenced by that consideration alone, and without the sanction of his judgment. In stating the impression which he felt on this subject, he must claim for himself to be free from all professional prejudices. As far as his own interest was concerned, the alteration now proposed would be extremely satisfactory; because it would lighten some part of that which he now felt to be the most painful part of his duties. He meant the revision which he was often compelled to make of the sentence, between the period at which it had been pronounced and its execution, when he was compelled either to decide in a few hours, or to grant a respite which might give rise to hopes wholly without any reasonable foundation. He should not object to the alteration, because it was an innovation upon a practice which had been sanctioned by years; for that would come with an ill grace indeed from
609608607606Mr. Secretary Peel
630 said, that the lateness of the hour, and the full and able manner in which the subject had been already discussed, would be a security to the House that he would not occupy much of its time in stating the grounds upon which he would vote against the introduction of this bill. He had paid the greatest attention to what had been said on the subject, on one side and the other, and could not help applauding the very candid manner in which the discussion had been conducted. But if the hon. and learned member for Peterborough, and the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, had once entertained great doubts on the question, and if they came to the discussion of it with doubts only diminished, the doubts of the hon. and learned gentleman, who spoke last, being more diminished than those of the hon. and learned member for Peterborough; if such was the state of their minds, surely it might be permitted to an unlearned person, like himself, who came to the consideration of the question with a disposition favourable to the system at present prevailing, still to doubt whether the proposed change would be beneficial. It did appear to him that, with respect to such a measure as this, even in the state of doubt which had been admitted to exist, the natural course would be, to oppose the introduction of the bill, in order to prevent further discussions, which could lead to no useful result. The balance, even upon that view of the case, preponderated in favour of the present practice; but, although the balance had been equal, still he would have thought it right to oppose the change, because the present practice ought to be continued, unless the balance decidedly preponderated against it. He had heard no good arguments out of the House for the projected change, but had found, on the contrary, that the general opinion was against it. He did not mean to say, that this was conclusive, but he did say, that no change ought to take place, until those best competent to judge were clearly convinced of its expediency and propriety. Much the safer course was, to maintain
630Mr. Secretary Canning
626 opposed the introduction of the bill. From the discussion which had taken place on the subject, he was sure it would be evident, as well in the House as out of it, that the question had formerly been decided upon its own merits, and not with any reference to the quarter from whence it originated. The proposal to give counsel to prisoners involved an apparent advantage, which, when examined, would prove to be only apparent, whilst the practice was calculated to introduce many evils and inconveniences. For his own part, he had never heard of that dissatisfaction at the course of justice in the criminal courts, of which an hon. member had spoken. He was quite satisfied, and so he thought was the country, with the manner in which prisoners were tried and convicted under the present system of law; and rather than agree to give the prisoner counsel, he would prefer abridging the power of the prosecuting counsel to make a speech in opening the case to the jury. If counsel were given to prisoners in cases where innocence was a matter of doubt, conviction would, in his opinion, be more certain. Some gentlemen were for the measure, because it would give the prisoner a greater chance of escape; others took an opposite view, and supported it because it would lead to more convictions. They were antipodes to each other in argument, and yet both were found on the same side. If there were any disposition in the public to be discontented with our mode of proceeding in criminal trials—if the public called aloud for a change—he should think that a reason for taking the subject into consideration. But he had no reason whatever to suppose that the public were displeased with our criminal proceedings. The learned member for Knares borough, whom he did not then see in his place, had presided over an elaborate inquiry, by a committee of that House, into our criminal law; and in his report there was nothing stated that could induce him to believe that the public at large desired a change. He believed, with his learned friend, that if prisoners had counsel, our criminal courts would be degraded into arenas, where the
626The Solicitor-General
 complained of the peculiar hardship of the parishioners of St. Olave, in having the question of tithes so long in agitation, while they had every wish for an amicable adjustment.Mr. Alderman Bridges
589588 in explaining to the House the object of the bill which he had announced his intention of proposing, observed, that his first and principle object was, to render the judges of the courts of justice in the West-India colonies, independent of the colonial assemblies, by prohibiting them from receiving any salaries, fees, or emoluments, from the members of the Houses of Assembly. Those Houses, it was well known, were composed of persons who, whether in their capacities of landholders and agents, or of planters carrying on dealings with each other, or of planters and masters exercising a control over their slaves, had every cause to wish to ingratiate themselves with the judges, and were, of course, the least fit to be possessed of that kind of influence over their actions, which the power of granting them an allowance might be supposed to afford. His second object was, so to dispose the appointments, that a judge of power and authority should visit all the smaller islands, and thereby secure a thoroughly impartial administration of justice through all the colonies. For this purpose he proposed, that a chief justice, with two Crown lawyers, should be appointed to each of the islands of Jamaica, Barbadoes, and Antigua; and that while the chief justice, with two Crown lawyers, held constant sittings in Jamaica, the other two should make circuits, and hold sessions in the smaller islands in succession. The salaries of these officers he would wish to be on such a scale as would induce men of character, abilities, and integrity, to accept the situation without loss or degradation. By this means, he hoped to see that immense mass of laws which were in use in the West-India islands, known only to a few, and even by them imperfectly, reduced to one uniform, plain, and simple code, which every one interested in their operation might understand without difficulty. He intended, in the next place, to cut off from the high offices of justice all that connection with the properties of the landholders and planters of the colonies, which, he conceived, rendered them peculiarly liable to be influenced
589588Lord Nugent,
576575574573572571570569568 in seconding the motion for bringing up the petition, declared his cordial concurrence with the hon. baronet in every thing which he had said upon the policy, expediency, justice, and necessity, of conceding these claims. He also agreed with his hon. friend in the inexpediency of taking, on the present occasion, a more enlarged view of this question; which was a most judicious course for the great interests intrusted to his charge.576575574573572571570569568Mr. Brougham,
629628627 observed, that he, as well as his hon. and learned friend, the member for Peterborough, had not, strictly speaking, changed his opinion, but he had a stronger impression in favour of the measure than he entertained before. Formerly, he had an impression similar to that of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, though not so strong as he had expressed it this night; but, after the fullest consideration, he had decided in favour of the bill. He complimented the right hon. Secretary of State for the candour which he had manifested towards this bill, allowing it to be one untinged with party. It had been stated that his hon. and learned friend, the member for Peterborough, entertained an opinion that the administration of criminal justice had not the confidence of the people. But he had understood his hon. and learned friend to refer to this particular point—that a prisoner was left unprotected when pressed by the eloquence of a counsel against him; that the people present in court, thinking that the prisoner had not been fairly treated, went away dissatisfied if he was convicted, and satisfied if he was acquitted, though he might be guilty. The hon. and learned gentleman opposite said that, notwithstanding the opportunities he had of hearing complaints from prisoners, he had never heard this alleged as a complaint. Of course the complaints urged were consistent with the existing system—such as that their counsel had not called certain witnesses, or that facts which made an impression upon the jury had not been explained. They were matters common to every system of law, not complaints against the system itself. This argument, therefore, went for nothing. There was no man, who visited our criminal courts, who did not see the fearful odds against a prisoner; a counsel speaking against him, and no one who could speak for him, and who could only get in a fact by that side-wind procedure, which had been so ably described by his hon. and learned friend. They were obvious to all those who attended our criminal courts, and they did leave an impression that justice was not administered to prisoners. His hon. and learned friend, the member for Peterborough, confirmed the statement of his hon. and learned friend who introduced this subject, and shewed that it was not
629628627Mr. Brougham
615614613612611610 said, that in assenting to the motion, he was not influenced by any consideration of its probable effect upon the number of acquittals; the true object being, not to acquit the greatest number of prisoners, but to secure the greatest number of right verdicts. He should, therefore, instead of inquiring whether this change of the law would be a gain to prisoners, inquire only, whether it would be a gain to public justice? He doubted, whether the law, on which a general encomium had been passed by his hon. and learned friend, the Attorney-general, was a law that provided fairly for prisoners on trial. His right hon. friend who spoke last, had truly defined it, when he spoke of it as a law, that allowed counsel to the prisoner on every issue but the main one. While it gives to the accuser the right of stating his case to the jury by counsel, it denies the same right to the accused, and then compensates this injustice to the prisoner, by the still greater injustice to the country, of allowing unsubstantial objections to the indictment. Any statement on the merits must be made by the prisoner's own lips. But the prisoner might be disabled by illness, blindness, deafness, or some other such visitation. If there were such a disability in a majority of cases, the legislature would, no doubt relax the law. Why then, in the majority of cases, this ground of relaxation does already exist: for, if the prisoner be placed in a situation, the terrors whereof are such as would take away from any average man the common resources of the human mind and strength—if this be a condition to confound and stem the sight, and the hearing, and the speech of any ordinary man, what matters it, in that alarming moment, whether those needful organs and senses have been denied to him by nature, or
615614613612611610Mr. Horace Twiss
605604 supported the motion. He said, that the objections which had been made to it had failed to convince him that it ought not to receive the sanction of the House. He was glad to hear his hon. and learned friend, the Attorney-general, renounce the authority of notions which had once been looked up to with unquestionable reverence, and which he did not now hesitate to pronounce antiquated. When he heard this, and reflected upon the slowness with which improvements had been effected in all those institutions which were considered the most valuable, he was still more convinced, that no sufficient reason existed for further postponing that amelioration in the mode of administering criminal justice which it was now sought
605604Mr. John Williams
578 presented a petition from Mr. Augustus Hardin Beaumont, a planter and slave-owner of Jamaica, but now resident in London, praying that the House might not pass hastily any measures respecting the West-India colonies, by which the property of planters and slave-owners might be injured. The hon. member observed, that the petitioner was, like the great body of the West-India planters and slave-owners, naturally apprehensive that his property would be much injured, as well by the measures actually contemplated with respect to the colonies, as by others, not so well defined, which were threatened. He sincerely hoped that no measures for ameliorating the condition of the slaves, might be passed, unless accompanied with a guarantee on the part of this country, that the property of the colonists should not be injured. Law was the protection of all property, and the estate of the nobleman in this country was not more entitled to such protection than was the property of the planter in the colonies. He thought that, upon this principle, the prayer of the petitioner was most reasonable. He stated, that he had acquired his property under the direct sanction of this country. He and other planters in Jamaica had repeatedly signed petitions to the legislature of Jamaica for bettering the condition of the slaves, and even of granting emancipation, provided
578Mr. Hume
l.l.566l. asked, in what situation a parish was placed where every body said that the differences which unfortunately existed would have been settled if it had not been for the interference of the bishop of London? Such was the prevailing feeling in the parish. The petition stated, that the sum levied for tithes in the parish was only 100l.l.566l.Mr. Hume
563 expressed his sincere regret to find that the affairs of this parish remained in their former unsettled state, and thought it a very great hardship that, with every wish for an amicable arrangement, the petitioners were again compelled to address the House. Differences on the subject of tithes were highly disreputable; and, if he were present, he would appeal to the Secretary of State to say whether it was expedient to suffer these parish broils, these scenes of tumult and disorder, to be thus continued, to the reproach of the church, and the interruption of harmony and social order. He had no hesitation in saying, that proceedings such as these were a reproach to the heads of the church, without whose sanction they could not be continued. In the present
563Mr. Hume
621620619618 said, he could not suffer the important question then before the House, to pass to a division without expressing his opinion upon it. From all that he had heard or learned on the subject, he was led to consider—and in which opinion he was sure he should have the concurrence of the majority of the hon. gentlemen who heard him—that all the arguments that had been brought forward in support of the proposed measure were more specious and plausible than valid and substantial. He was of opinion, that the proposed bill would not only not be a benefit, but would be the greatest mischief to a prisoner. What was the state of the law at present? A prisoner had the right to have counsel assigned him, to argue any points of law that might arise in his favour. He was also entitled to their aid to cross-examine the witnesses against him—to select, to marshal, and to examine his own witnesses, and to make what comments were necessary on the evidence as it proceeded. All, therefore, that was wanting was, that the counsel should make a speech to the jury in behalf of the prisoner, in the same manner as the counsel for the prosecutor had already made one against him. Now, what was the nature of the speech of the prosecutor's counsel? It was nothing but a plain statement of facts, unadorned by any attempts at eloquence, and unaided by any appeals to the passions of the auditors. If it were otherwise, it would instantly be put down by the judge. The evidence was then adduced; and, after the points of law, if there were any, had been argued, the facts were summed up by the judge, who left them to the jury in the most unbiassed and unimpassioned manner. His summing up, too, was always accompanied by a direction that, if the circumstances were esteemed doubtful, the verdict, should be in favour of the prisoner. Could there be any method more favourable in its nature to the party accused? He thought not. Yet it was said, that the prisoner would stand in a better situation if his counsel was allowed to address the jury. Now, the first objection which struck him was this, that the immediate consequence of this must be, a change in the character of the counsel for the prosecution; who, instead of being, as now, a minister of justice, would become the advocate of a party. Feeling conscious that he was to be opposed by the opposite counsel, it was not likely that he
621620619618Mr. Tindal
l.l.616 said, he could not but congratulate the House that this bill was now likely to pass into a law, though he could not help reminding them, that among the offences of "petty legislation" with which he had been charged, was an attempt of his to introduce this very principle into our laws. Three times had he tried to get it a hearing, and three times had he failed. Still, however, he could not refrain from congratulating the House and the country on its present introduction, and on the eloquence which had been displayed in its support. The exhibition of that eloquence proved that he was not unwise when he had requested the hon. member for Dungarvon to afford it his patronage, and the success of his recommendation would encourage him to submit some of the other bills which he wished to introduce to the care of that hon. member and of his friends. He trusted that by pursuing this system some of the bills, which had been so much reprobated as his, would, when he had left that House, or perchance the world, be introduced under the management of abler hands, and would sometime or other, the sooner the better, become the law of the land. When he had vainly attempted to introduce the principle of the present bill, he had adduced an instance of hardship upon the prisoner which could not have existed
l.l.616Mr. R. Martin
633632631 said, that, after the arguments he had heard by gentlemen on both sides of the House, and having expressed his opinion two years ago upon this bill, he had little to offer to the House. He was happy to perceive that his former arguments had made two converts, and that since the last time when this question had been agitated, his learned friends, the member for Winchelsea and the member for Peterborough, had both come into his opinion. It had frequently occurred that counsel had declined to conduct a prisoner's case where no doubt existed as to his guilt. The course practised was, to leave him to the clemency of the judge, and the justice of the country. There was another case of a peculiar nature in which the assistance of counsel would be absolutely requisite—he meant in the case of a prisoner being deaf and dumb.
633632631Mr. Denman
l.l. said, that the right hon. gentleman seemed to have misconceived the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Montrose. His hon. friend had said, that the present rector received upwards of 1,800l.l.Mr. Denman
577 said, that he would follow, on the present occasion, the example set to him by the hon. members opposite, in forbearing to enter into the general merits of this question. When the hon. baronet, however, had declared that his opinion remained unaltered, he (Mr. Bankes) felt it equally due to the consistency or those who thought with him upon this subject, to declare also that their opinions were unalterable upon it. And he regretted exceedingly that no convenient means had been afforded in the present session, of fully discussing the petitioners' claims; for he was satisfied, t\hat the public feeling, or rather the public opinion, would have then been unequivocally expressed against the proposed concession. Had this course been taken on the eve of the general election, the public would have known how to choose their representatives for the new parliament; and he confidently anticipated the result. It had been sometimes said, that the Catholics of this day were not of the same religion as those of the past. There was, however, one expression in this petition which set that matter entirely at rest; for the petitioners avowed the unaltered state of the Catholic religion. He believed that avowal, and gave firm credence to those who uttered it; and upon that fact he had always founded one of his great objections to the granting of these claims. It was an unaltered and an unalterable church; and was now exactly the same as it had been centuries ago. The hon. baronet had contended for the reason, policy, and justice of this question. For his part, he could not see either the reason, or the policy, still less the justice, of committing the care of a Protestant established church to Catholic members of parliament. Indeed, human nature must make Catholics who were sincere believers of the principles of their religion decidedly hostile to a church which they must feel was an innovation upon their own system, which they deemed to be infallible. As to the church of Ireland, he was quite satisfied it would not stand for two sessions in an unchanged state, if Catholics were admitted to seats-in parliament. Some hon. members might, perhaps, think such a change would be beneficial. He was of a contrary opinion, and thought it would inflict a fetal injury.
577Mr. W. J. Bankes
596595594593592591590 in asking for leave to bring in a bill for the purpose of allowing persons prosecuted for Felony, to make their defence by Counsel, began by observing, that he could not consider the debate upon the motion of his hon. friend (Mr. R. Martin), on a former occasion, nor the division with which that debate was terminated, as shewing any conclusive sense of that House upon the question. It might, however, be thought necessary that he should explain why he had suffered two sessions to pass over without calling the attention of parliament to the subject; and why he pressed again upon an audience always reluctant to hear dry legal details, all the plain matter of fact of a twice-told tale. His reasons were to be found in his sense of the continued importance of his object, and his unchanged conviction that there was no good ground of defence, either from the practice of past times, or the inconveniences of the present, to be offered to the course which he intended to conclude by proposing. Every thing, indeed, since that time, had combined to corroborate the opinions he then expressed, and many individuals of weight and consequence had seconded those views—which, he contended, were founded on the principles of immutable justice. In alluding to the arguments which had been used on the former debate, he could not avoid expressing his surprise, that the Attorney-general, when he admitted the propriety of counsel speaking on behalf of persons accused of misdemeanours, had not thought it behoved him, from pure consistency, to extend the
596595594593592591590Mr. George Lamb,
 did not rise to prolong this discussion; but, when the hon. member declared his belief, that the Irish church could not stand for two sessions after the admission of a few Catholic members to seats in that House, he could not refrain from saying, that such a concession was what he did not expect to have heard from the hon. member; and he only lamented that a convenient opportunity could not now be afforded, to permit the hon. member to show how such an effect would follow from the introduction of a few Catholic members.Mr. W. Smith
625624623 began by adverting to the opinions which he had formerly held upon the subject. He then thought, that a change in the administration of the law, in this particular, was not called for. He had, however, given the subject very mature deliberation; and, if that opinion which he now held was erroneous, he could safely say that the error did not arise from any want of attention to the subject, or insensibility to its importance. He would own, however, that he then felt inclined to distrust his own opinion, inasmuch as every one knew how prone the human mind was, to be overcome by prejudice, and to think that practice best to which it had been accustomed. The chief argument which had weighed with his mind, was, that the proposed change would tend more to the conviction of prisoners than the present, and in that respect be disadvantageous to them. He would own, however, that that was not a just reason; and in what he would now say upon the subject, he should be careful to build more upon practice than upon theory. His learned friend who spoke last, had very justly said, that the present practice was so conducted as to prevent the appearance of any of that passion or eagerness in the address of the prosecutor, which was likely to lead away the minds of the judge and jury from the real facts of the case; but, if this was a good ground for the present practice in criminal cases, why not apply it to civil cases also? The investigation of truth was the object in both; and, if the practice and the results were good in the one, they must also be good in the other. There could be no distinction made between the two. The
625624623Mr. Scarlett
622 supported the motion, and contended, that, however the measure might be condemned in theory, it would, in practice, prove advantageous to persons brought for trial before our courts of
622Lord Althorp
 doubted whether this was a proper time for the introduction of such a bill. At all events, the hon. member ought to give the House sufficient time to consider the subject.Mr. Wynn
636 thought, that the operation of the bill should be, in some degree, restrained; for, if it restored all the rights that lay dormant, it might, on the same principle, deprive electors of such rights as they had acquired by usage. It was clear
636Mr. R. Smith
 said, that the question of the hon. gentleman referred to two perfectly distinct subjects. He had no hesitation in saying, with regard to the first point, that he did not think it expedient to make any communication to the House; as to the second point, certainly government had received despatches containing further information respecting the occupation of the island of Shapooree, which he intended to lay before the House.Mr. Wynn
649 said, it was quite clear that the hon. gentleman had not given himself the trouble to read any of the papers which had been presented to the House. The hon. gentleman evidently did not know their contents. He was ready to give an answer to any specific question which might be propounded to him by any horn member, but it was not usual for persons who presided over the department confided to him, to give explanations as to news-paper paragraphs. If such was considered by the hon. gentleman to be the duty of any minister of the Crown, it was a doctrine perfectly new. He had never before heard of it, and did not mean to act upon it. He certainly thought that this was not a convenient opportunity for going further into the subject. The gazette would continue to publish, as heretofore, full information concerning the progress of the war. More would
649Mr. Wynn
 was not disposed to impute blame to any party, with regard to this important subject. There were, however, many questions connected with the war, which deserved consideration, both as to its origin, and the mode in which it had been conducted; and a still more important one, whether any opportunity had been neglected of concluding an honourable peace, which might have put an end to the sufferings and losses of our gallant army, and to the expense and perils of an arduous war. It was the duty of the House to ascertain that point from the ministers of the Crown. Certainly it was true, that the present government of India did not inspire that confidence which existed during the times of lord Wellesley and lord Hastings. There was a general feeling of dissatisfaction, which, he was afraid, was too well founded. He wished to give his majesty's government an opportunity of explanation as to that point; and if the right hon. gentleman would fix any day next week, it would prevent the necessity of bringing forward any motion for the purpose of obtaining it.Lord J. Russell
647646645d.,s.l.644643642641640639638s.637l. rose, pursuant to notice, to present a petition from the inhabitant householders of Rye, for the Extension of the Elective Franchise to that borough. His lordship commenced by observing, that the town of Rye was a place of considerable importance, in which, while trade and commerce progressively improved, the elective franchise was shamefully restricted. The petition stated, that "the annual assessment for the town amounted to the sum of 3,156647646645d.,s.l.644643642641640639638s.637l.Lord John Russell
 said, that the petitioners were entitled to the right of voting for the return of members. He thought, however, that it would be better to confine their right of voting to the town itself, than extend it to the county at large.Lord John Russell
 disclaimed any intention to confer a double right of voting. His object was merely to restore the ancient constitutional right.Mr. Sykes
 observed, that he had given notice of his intention to introduce this measure some weeks ago. If it was a proper one, it ought to pass without delay.Mr. Sykes
v.634 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to declare the rights of freeholders in separate districts, or counties corporate, to vote at the election of knights of the shire of the several counties from which the said districts have been separated. The hon.
v.634Mr. Sykes
 said, that a decision on the matter in question had taken place in a committee up stairs. The freeholders of Coventry had voted for the county of Warwick, and their votes had been disallowed. The county was under great obligations to the hon. member for bringing forward this subject, but he hoped the hon. member would not press it forward with such haste as to deprive him of the support of the gentlemen opposite.Mr. Ellice
 did not see that any reasonable objection could be made to it.Mr. Littleton
 said, that this was merely a declaratory law, and he only regretted that the hon. gentleman proposed to confine its operation to nine places. As to the double franchise, no good argument could be founded on that; for, he believed, there were few members of the House who had not a double franchise. The measure ought to be extended to all the places which had lost their ancient rights, otherwise the places not named might be deprived of their rights by implication.Mr. Bright
648 complained that no documents respecting the Burmese war had been laid on the table of the House, and it appeared that none were to be, except with relation to the petty island mentioned by the right hon. gentleman. The House were bound to inquire into the circumstances of this war, which so deeply
648Mr. Bright
 observed, that this was merely a restoration of rights, by which nobody could be injured; and, since the right could not be questioned, the sooner it was restored the better.Mr. J. Benett
 supported the motion.Mr. Jones
 said, that, seeing the president of the India Board in his place, he would take the opportunity of asking, whether, in the present state of the session, that right hon. gentleman was prepared to lay any papers before the House relative to the transactions that had taken place at Barrackpore? When he had last asked this question, the right hon. gentleman had stated, that the late Commander-in-Chief was shortly expected to arrive in this country, and that, in all probability, that officer would be able to give the desired information. He was desirous of knowing whether it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to furnish the House with this information, and with any papers explanatory of the progress made by the British forces in the Burmese territory?Mr. Hume
 consented to the introduction of the bill, but would not pledge himself to support it throughout.Dr. Phillimore
635 seconded the motion. The bill, he said, proposed to go no further than to reinstate the petitioners in the rights which had before belonged to them. The Crown might establish a separate community, but could not deprive free-
635Sir M. W. Ridley
711710 of Galway, said, he could not let the opportunity pass, of making an observation upon one circumstance which I had been urged by the hon. gentleman opposite, as evidence of the defective system of representation; he meant the assertion, that, among the majority which had voted for separating the offices of Treasurer of the Navy and the President of the Board of Trade, there could be found the name of only one county member. Now he (Mr. M.) happened to be that county member [Cries of there was another]. He stood corrected. He believed there was the name of another county member in that majority, and he believed he could say, that that county member gave his vote as independently as he (Mr. Martin), or any other hon. member of that House. It had been also said, that the hon. members who formed the majority on that occasion were placemen. Now, he could say for himself, that he did not hold any
711710Mr. Martin,
 said, he had no intention of troubling the House with a speech upon the question; but considering the notice which had been taken of him by the hon. member for Orford, and other observations lately made upon the representation of the city of Bath, he was desirous of saying a few words on the part of his constituents and himself. As a friend to reform, although the representative of a close borough, he had stood in the same predicament as the hon. member for Calne, in his late attempt to amend the representation of the city of Edinburgh: but, whatever might be thought of his conduct, he had voted with a sincere desire to carry the question, and as he had done by Edinburgh, he would have done by Bath, had her case been brought forward. How far in this he bad consulted the feelings of his constituents, would be soon for them to determine; but considering the personal attack lately made upon them, he would take the liberty of observing, that the corporation of Bath had given the only example of a close borough, alike independent of the Crown, the administration, and the aristocracy of the country; and of which, as one of its members, he could declare, he had not a single vote at his command, but was indebted for his seat solely to the free will of the electors. It might be true, that the greater part belonged to the medical profession; but if honourable members would "throw physic to the dogs," he hoped, at least, they would give his constituents credit for their conduct, in not availing themselves of their unconstitutional power, to promote their private interest.General Palmer
714713 said, that after considering the arguments advanced in support of the measure proposed by the noble lord, he was obliged, from conviction to vote against it. The great objection, which he had to the measure altogether, and the great ground on which he rested his opposition to it was, that he could not see, nor had any person pointed out clearly to him, what real benefit could be derived from it. But while he said this, he felt it due to the noble lord who introduced the question, to state, that he had brought it forward on better grounds, with more extensive information, and on sounder principles, than any individual had done who had previously brought it under the consideration of the House. Still, however, giving to the
714713The Hon. William Lamb
716 rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of the Watermen of the river Thames from Gravesend to Windsor. The hon. member strenuously urged the claims of the body whose cause he had undertaken to espouse, to the attention of the House. He would boldly say, that no set of men were better entitled to the consideration
716Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that the hon. alderman had, some nights since, done him the honour to consult him upon the subject of his present motion; but he realty had not been able to ascertain, for some time after he had risen, whether the speech he was making had reference to that question or not. The statement of the hon. alderman upon that occasion, he had understood to be, that watermen were not at present permitted to ply upon Sundays, whilst there was another class who did ply and work upon the river. Upon that view of the question, he certainly had thought that a restrictive regulation of that description was necessary, especially as others were permitted to do what these men were interdicted. He then said, and he still thought, that it was too scrupulous an observance of the Sabbath to exact, under such circumstances; and he therefore, had declared, that he saw no objection to the worthy alderman's motion. He had, however, no idea that he meant to propose a measure of such minute regulation as that which he had proposed to the House. It appeared to him to a fleet the interests of so many different parties, that he could not but think that the' worthy alderman ought to postpone those regulations which went beyond the alterations to which he had alluded, to another year.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he should be very willing to accede to any wish of the right hon. gentleman upon the subject.Mr. Alderman Wood
680 said, that if the proposition of his noble friend and those who voted with him, had been, to change the present system for a democracy, the objections of the hon. member who spoke last might have applied; but not only no such intention had ever been expressed, but the very contrary was their object; and instead of attempting to destroy the constitution, they only sought to preserve it, and to remove all that was prejudicial to it. He approached this question with a considerable degree of distrust and apprehension; for he felt that it was one of large and general importance. Indeed, he would not have trespassed on the attention of the House but for what had lately passed as to the state of the representation in Scotland, from which he inferred, that the particular grievances of that country would not be redressed unless a general reform of parliament was adopted. He had expected that the case of Scotland would have been considered on its own merits, as there were difficulties and peculiarities connected with it of such a nature as to induce the hope that even those who were hostile to the general measure would see the necessity of remedying the particular evils of the Scotch representation. But he was astonished to hear a right hon. gentleman declare, when the petition from Edinburgh was under consideration, that no sufficient motive could be proved to him
680Lord Glenorchy
* rose and said:—*Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he had no objection to that clause.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that he had already intimated to the House his intention to postpone the bill for consolidating the laws relative to Larceny till next session; but there was one law—that relative to stealing in orchards—which he could not consent to leave in its present state, even till that period. By the law, as it now stood, a school-boy stealing an apple, a passenger casually passing along a road and taking a little fruit, was guilty of a felony; and the magistrate had no discretion, but must commit for that offence. The severity of this law prevented its execution, and it failed in affording that protection to garden property, which it was intended to afford. He meant, therefore, to bring in a bill to amend the law, and give a power to the magistrate to levy a fine treble the value of the property stolen; and where the party was unable to pay this to leave the magistrate the power of committing the offender to prison. The right hon. Secretary concluded by moving for leave to bring in a bill to amend the law respecting the offence of stealing in gardens and hothouses.Mr. Secretary Peel
 expressed his approbation of the intended measure.Mr. D. Gilbert
 opposed the clause, and warmly reprobated the infliction of the poor-laws upon the inhabitants of Ireland.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 objected to the bill; but protested against the supposition that lie, and the rest who opposed the measure, were deficient in humanity.Mr. R. Colburne
720 concurred in the measure. If a spring-gun was to be defended as a punishment for a trespass, a man might also defend the springing of a mine, by which a whole gang of poachers might be destroyed at once. He for one could not approve the power of punishing with death a trespass, which, even if a man were convicted, would only bring
720Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he would have no objection to the bill if it were to last for only one year; by which time he hoped that some law would be passed for legalizing the sale of game; but he did not, without such a measure as that, wish to see this bill made permanent.Mr. W. Horton
 would vote for the third reading, and also for the amendment of which his hon. friend had given notice.Mr. Wynn
 said, he would support the bill. It had been said, that the law of Scotland did not require such a measure. If that were the case, it would be unnecessary to include that part of the kingdom in it; but he could wish that some member, who knew the law of Scotland, would state what it was on this subject.Captain Gordon
And add more beauties than he takes away."To future ages shall your fame convey,And every grace that Time alone can grant,Mellow your colours, and embrown each tintRetouch your figures with his ripening hand,For Time shall with his ready pencil stand,But venerable age shall add the rest."What mortal art can do is here express'd,709Nothing ourselves, and yet expressing all.""With them advance, retire, arise, or fall—708707706 rose and said:—Entertaining as I do the intention of voting against the motion of the noble lord, I am anxious to explain some of the reasons which induced me to take that course. It is not without some regret that I place my feeble opposition in the path which the noble lord imagines to conduce to the amelioration of the government of the country. I believe that there are persons here—I know that there are those elsewhere—who, instead of watching what they cannot, and aiding what they ought not to resist, are always placing themselves in the way of those irresistible changes which the course of events is producing. I wish to explain why I deny that a concurrence with the motion of the noble lord is a test of a separation from that party, and exemption from its feelings—why, while I disclaim a voluntary blindness, I yet avert my gaze from what the noble lord thinks light—why I oppose his moderate views with more calmness, but not less decision, than I should those of a more sweeping and radical reformer.And add more beauties than he takes away."To future ages shall your fame convey,And every grace that Time alone can grant,Mellow your colours, and embrown each tintRetouch your figures with his ripening hand,For Time shall with his ready pencil stand,But venerable age shall add the rest."What mortal art can do is here express'd,709Nothing ourselves, and yet expressing all.""With them advance, retire, arise, or fall—708707706Lord Francis Leveson Gower
663662661660659658657656655654653652 said, that he rose in pursuance of the notice he had given, to bring before the House the all-important question of a Reform in Parliament. On two occasions formerly it had been his lot to bring this subject under the consideration of the House; but, on no occasion could he have found any period which, in one most material point of view, could have proved more favourable to the measure which it was his object to recommend for their adoption—he alluded to the tranquillity which prevailed at home, and to the pacific state of our foreign relations. In bringing forward the present motion, he had almost determined to let it rest upon the reasons which he had, upon the two former occasions, felt it his duty to urge upon the attention of the House. He had been almost resolved to leave honourable members to the effect of those considerations which, as well within the walls of that House as out of doors, had been operating on the minds of men, and, he was persuaded, preparing the way for sounder views and juster principles on this great national question. But more mature reflection led him to the conviction, that it would be much more expedient to lay before the House those principles and facts on which he founded his judgment—principles which, so far from consisting, as had been repeatedly said on the opposite side, of mere empty declamation, would appear when calmly stated to the House, to be nothing more than the simplest and plainest reasonings, intelligible to every mind, not perverted by prejudice, and to every heart not corrupted by interest. One of the chief grounds on which, when he last addressed the House on the question of Parliamentary Reform, he had rested the opinions and recommendations then urged, was, that it was a matter of paramount importance to adapt every government to the wants and wishes, the prejudices and existing state of the country, for whose use it was intended. This, so far from being a piece of empty declamation, was an axiom which no rational or impartial man could deny. Even the Turkish government was not unsuited to the people. The Sultan might, in the unlimited indulgence of his caprice, cut off the heads of fourteen men per day, without even the appearance or show of judicial proceeding; but he dared not so far depart from the established usages of the people, as neglect to appear before
663662661660659658657656655654653652Lord John Russell
679678677676675674673672671 begged to assure the House, that it was not his intention to detain them at any length, but he was anxious to take that opportunity of stating how strongly he objected to any general system of Parliamentary Reform—a question which had been as often rejected as it had been brought forward, and which, he felt convinced, notwithstanding the exertions of a most zealous party, had gained no ground within the walls of parliament, and little, if any, in the country at large.679678677676675674673672671Mr. Ross
 rose to present a petition from North Shields, to which he wished to call the particular attention of the president of the Board of Trade. The petitioners stated, that they had embarked a large capital in the carrying trade, and that, though they objected to the Reciprocity Duties bill, they had not thought proper to petition against it; but from the distress with which they had been overtaken, they were now obliged to throw themselves upon the justice of the House, and to entreat protection against foreign competition. They prayed, that protecting duties might be imposed on foreign shipping; but he hoped that other means of relief might be devised, and that, instead of such a measure, the withdrawal of some of those burthens which pressed most heavily upon them might effect the same object.Mr. Ellison
 although he was glad to find that it was intended to repeal the act of last session, was nevertheless of opinion, that no new measure was necessary. The law which existed against malicious trespassing being adequate to the punishment of the offence in question.Mr. Sykes,
 said, he would recommend his hon. friend to bring in his bill for the sole object approved of. The grievance could not be too soon removed, and he was the more inclined to hope for the concurrence of the right hon. gentleman as he must have known, that watermen were frequently committed to Coldbathfields in consequence of their inability to pay the fines imposed on them for plying on Sundays.Mr. Ellice
 opposed the clause, believing it of vital importance to prevent the introduction of the principle of the poor-laws into Ireland.Mr. Dawson
 after contending that it was improper to insert such an important clause in a bill which chiefly had reference to other subjects, proceeded to deny that the Irish Government had shewn any indifference to the miseries of the lower orders. On the contrary, much had been done, and more attempted, for their relief; especially in encouraging and giving employment to the labouring classes, in ameliorating the general administration of the country, and in extending her commerce.Mr. Goulburn,
 said, that he would support the bill, if it embraced the amendment of last year; namely, that the prohibition of the use of spring-guns should be limited to woods, under-woods, or open fields.Mr. Goulburn
 proposed a clause to enable vestries to assess their respective parishes for the relief of the poor.Mr. Grattan
"—Neque enim plus septima ducitur ætas; At genus immortale manet, multosque per annos Stat Fortuna domûs, et avi numerantur avorum."670669668667666665 rose and said:—"—Neque enim plus septima ducitur ætas; At genus immortale manet, multosque per annos Stat Fortuna domûs, et avi numerantur avorum."670669668667666665Mr. J. E. Denison
 gave his assent to the bill, but objected to the clause, making death by a spring-gun manslaughter.Mr. J. P. Grant
719 thought, that in every country where a high state of civilization had been arrived at, a redundancy of population was a necessary consequence. The effect of this was, in its turn, greatly to enlarge the pauper classes of the community. Now, he conceived it to be the duty of every nation, under such circumstances, to make adequate provision for those, whose pauperism was not their
719Mr. Monck
 was in favour of the bill. He, for one, would wish to see the experiment made by an hon. friend of his (the member for Lewes) more generally adopted. It was that of behaving so kindly to his poor neighbours as to put an end to the necessity of poaching on their part.Mr. J. Smith
 said, that this important subject for the poor of Ireland had been most shamefully neglected by government. As a proof of this, he referred to the able report of the committee appointed to inquire into the state of the poor of Ireland. Not only had nothing been done to alleviate the miseries of the poor of Ireland, but nothing had even been attempted. In England there existed a great want of employment for the lower orders, and the evil had been materially increased by the influx of shoals of Irish labourers. This was not using the industrious peasantry of England fairly; and such an interference with the advantages to which they were entitled ought not to be permitted. He earnestly called upon the Irish Government to shew at least a disposition to mitigate the sufferings of the poor of Ireland.Mr. J. Smith
 said, he preferred the clause as a minor evil, compared with the greater evil of the wretchedness and destitution of the poor.Mr. J. Smith
717 observed, that the object of the bill was, to allow certain watermen to ply on Sundays. He wished the pleasures of the middle class of the people on Sundays not to be interfered with. He recommended his hon. friend to confine himself to that part of his bill
717Mr. M. A. Taylor
 objected to one of the clauses, which in its present form would have this effect, that, in the case of a man burglariously breaking into a house, and being shot by a spring gun, the party about to be robbed would be liable to an action for a misdemeanour, on account of keeping a spring gun in his house.Mr. N. Calvert
 begged to acknowledge the courtesy of the hon. member, in giving him intimation of the petition which he had brought before the notice of the House, A similar petition had been presented about two weeks ago, when he happened to be absent from the House. He had no wish that the petition should not have been presented, but he thought it somewhat hard that his accidental absence should have been made the ground for a charge of neglect. The truth was, that on that day he had been engaged till near five o'clock at his office on the business of his own department. He had then left to go to another place on business of the same nature, after transacting which he had come immediately to the House. It was quite impossible that ministers could be always in the House while petitions were presented requiring their presence, unless some intimation were previously given. He was sure that they would ill discharge their duty to the public by spending three or four hours daily in the House, while petitions were presenting, in order to take the chance of there being, once in a fortnight, some petition to which their attention ought to be called. He did not think that the presenting a petition was a very favourable occasion for information on a subject of such importance as the state of our shipping interests and our navigation. He would, however, bring forward a motion on this subject on Tuesday next, for the express purpose of laying before the House what he conceived to be the present state of the British shipping, and what had been the effect of the Reciprocity laws which had been alluded to. He hoped he should be able to convince the House, that the effects of these changes had not led to any of those injurious effects which some persons had anticipated. Such an exposition as he was prepared to give on the state of our shipping, and other great interests connected with it, would, he hoped, satisfy parliament, that these interests have not been neglected by those to whom they were more particularly intrusted.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that the only objection he had to the abolition of spring-guns was, that they sometimes shot those who had set them. He could wish to see the bill more perfect than it was; but still he would give it his support.Mr. G. Lamb
 was of opinion that the law against malicious trespassing would not extend to such offences as robbing in a garden. It was necessary to enact some other punishment than that which the law against malicious trespassing provided.Mr. Peel
697l.As if he had been born of beaten gold."In his defence, his servants are as boldStock—stone—or other homely pedigree;"Of whatsoe'er descent their Godhead be,696695694693692691690689***688687686685684683Nitor in adversum, nee me, qui cætera, vincit Impetus; et rapido contrarius evehor orbi:682681**; Since it appears to be the course of this evening's discussion, that the supporters, as well as the op-posers of the noble lord's proposal, should follow each other, not singly, but in pairs,
697l.As if he had been born of beaten gold."In his defence, his servants are as boldStock—stone—or other homely pedigree;"Of whatsoe'er descent their Godhead be,696695694693692691690689***688687686685684683Nitor in adversum, nee me, qui cætera, vincit Impetus; et rapido contrarius evehor orbi:682681**Mr. Speaker
 objected to the bill, on the ground that if it passed into a law, a person setting a spring-gun in his dwelling-house, garden, or hot-house, might be found guilty of manslaughter, and banished for life; and would likewise be liable to a civil action for damages. There was a manifest distinction between setting guns in woods or forests, and setting them in warehouses, dwelling houses, hothouses, and gardens. In most cases the guns were not actually set, but the threat was held up in terrorem to frighten thieves and poachers.Sir G. Chetwynd
 expressed his satisfaction at what had been stated by the right hon. gentleman. He had no doubt that the facts would fully justify the measures which had been taken; but still, a public expression of them would be very satisfactory to the shipping interests.Sir M. W. Ridley
664 seconded the motion, and in so doing declared, that he should almost abstain from observation, as he had no wish either to waste the time of the House unnecessarily, or to weaken the effect which must have been produced upon it by the argumentative speech of his noble friend. After that speech, which was full of historical research, and entirely devoid of empty declamation, he should not trouble them further than to say that, in his opinion, the present state of the representation was such, that the people had not that preponderance in it which was necessary to secure to them the certainty of being well governed. He did not mean to say that under the present system, they were not well governed at present—for able ministers could, if they pleased govern a country well, no matter whether it had or had not a representative government. The grand
664Lord Althorp
 said, that whatever discussion had arisen, was provoked by the hon. member opposite, who had certainly taken a wrong view of the effect of the Treaty of Limerick. Indeed, until lately, this sort of argument in favour of the Catholic claims had not been thought of. The Treaty of Limerick was certainly not dwelt upon by the ablest advocates of the Catholics. He should, on the present occasion, confine himself to the record of his protest against the use of any arguments in behalf of the Catholic claims, founded upon a violation of the Treaty of Limerick.The Solicitor General
733 said, that, not having been present at the beginning of this discussion, he would refrain from entering into the general argument, and confine himself simply to saying, that he by no means acquiesced in the view, that the privileges now withheld from the Catholics were so withheld in violation of the Treaty of Limerick. It would be time enough when that argument was formally urged, to combat it, which he should be certainly prepared to do; retaining as he did his original opinion respecting that Treaty, and not concurring in the assertion, that the admissibility of the Catholics to political power had been withheld in consequence of its operation. The petitioners themselves seemed doubtful of the extent to which they meant to press their argument founded upon the Treaty of Limerick, or on that particular article of it which was framed to secure them in the exercise of their religion, as far as was consistent with the laws of Ireland. Now, did they mean that by this provision they were to be free from molestation in the exercise of their religion, or did they construe it into an admission of their claim to equal eligibility to civil office? He rather; thought that they confounded both senses in their construction; for they asserted
733Mr. Secretary Peel
 expressed his regret, that his noble friend found himself under the necessity of postponing his bill. It was a measure much to be desired, and framed upon principles which could not fail to recommend it to the friendly attention of the House.Colonel Davies
 said, he had an objection that the House should do that by bill which they were competent to do without the assistance of any other branch of the legislature. He was willing, however, to concur in any effectual measure for suppressing the evils against which this bill was directed.Mr. Wynn
l734 took that opportunity of requesting the attention of the right hon. Secretary to the defective state of the police of the metropolis, with respect to the apprehension of offenders. At present, notwithstanding the facilities afforded by the magistrates, there was great difficulty in urging the officers to their duty, without the expenditure of large sums of money. In a case that had recently oc-
l734Mr. J. Smith
 said, he understood the object of the hon. gentleman to be the establishment of a Board of Police, like that of the Customs or Excise, in order that there might be a regular gradation of authority in that department. He was, however, inclined to doubt the policy of such a measure. He did not consider it desirable to create any new officer with greater powers than those possessed by an ordinary magistrate. He questioned whether the erection of any intermediate authority, between the Secretary of State and the magistracy in general, would not be contrary to the principles of the constitution. The police of the metropolis he certainly did not think defective. One great advantage resulting from it was, that there were always magistrates at hand, to whom the inhabitants could apply for advice and assistance. If, instead of having eight divisions, one chief officer or board were constituted, the hon. gentleman would find he had not advanced one step towards his object. The alteration would only have the effect of complicating the system of police, and lessening the authority and responsibility of the Secretary of State.Mr. Secretary Peel
 agreed, that it was desirable that every facility for the escape of the guilty should be removed, if by so doing no security was taken from the innocent. On this principle, he saw no objection to the clause.Mr. Secretary peel
 regretted the necessity of deferring the consideration of a bill of so much importance, but his time had been so entirely occupied that he had been utterly incapable of attending to the measure. If, however, he did not give the hon. gentleman notice early next session, as to the intentions of government with regard to this subject, he would leave it to him to bring it forward at his own discretion.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that this was a question of the last importance, and he lamented, that, as the matter had been stirred, there was not an intention to proceed with it.Mr. Abercromby
 wished to ask the right hon. gentleman how soon these improvements were likely to be commenced, as it was of considerable importance to the householders, whose property would be affected thereby, that they should be made acquainted with this fact as early as possible, in order that they might make their arrangements accordingly.Mr. Hobhouse
738 said, that his concurrence in the bill before the House was not founded on any apprehensions that the temporary suspension of the qualification from the Haileybury College, would lead to the destruction of that institution. On the contrary, he quite agreed with the hon. and learned member opposite, that, although, in former times, great men had appeared in India, yet the country had a right to expect that there should be some competent security for the instruction and education to be possessed by those who were sent out to India. The nation had a deep interest in the question; and had a strict right to be assured, that those who were destined for India should have some preparatory education previous to their departure. At the same time, he concurred with the hon. member behind him, that if there could be a guarantee for the general education of those appointed to offices in India, he might hesitate between the present specific and a more general plan of instruc-
738Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, that, having had two sons at the Haileybury College, he was enabled to speak to the character of the education furnished there, and he must say, that it appeared to him that the system was excellent. One of his sons was reported to be qualified for the public service in seventeen days after his arrival in India, and the other in six months; and, when young men were thus prepared, he thought it was the best proof that the College fulfilled the purposes for which it was intended.Mr. Lushington
740 said, that this bill was not brought forward for the purpose of diminishing, but of increasing, the qualifications of the young men who entered into the service of the East-India company. He defended the College from the attack which had been made upon it, and lamented that ninety-six was the greatest number of students that could be educated within its walls. There were only two plans by which the East-India company could obtain an adequate supply of efficient servants. One of them was, to allow young men to qualify themselves elsewhere than at the College, and the other to increase the number of young men educated there. Now, this latter plan could not be immediately adopted, since it would take some time to erect additional buildings for their habitation, and the company required an immediate supply of active servants. The first plan, therefore, must be acted upon for a time, and he conceived that much advantage might be derived from the competition which it would create among the promoters of the different systems of education for young men proceeding to India. He could not see any reason why a young man, who had gone through the usual routine of a public school, and had afterwards applied himself at the Universities or elsewhere to the study of the languages of India, should not be equally well qualified for service in India with a young man educated at the College. He could not forget that one of the company's most able servants, Warren Hastings, had been educated at Westminster-school, in the same form with Lloyd and Churchill, and
740Mr. Wynn
 observed, that the expenses of the war in India were paid out of the funds arising from the Company's territorial possessions in that country. By the Company's charter, the Indian government were bound to support 20,000 troops in India; and, if a war with any of the native powers should render an addition to that force necessary, then the expenses of that additional force were also to be defrayed by the Company. But a naval force, for the purpose of aiding the military operations in that country, being a new feature in their mode of warfare, had not been contemplated in the charter, and therefore the present bill had been introduced, for the purpose of regulating the method in which the expenses of that service were to be defrayed.Mr. Wynn
 consented to the bill, because he considered it expedient to supply the deficiencies of the public service. The regulations of the bill were not intended, in the slightest degree, to injure the College, but simply to provide a sufficient number of persons possessing the qualifications which were requisite for such situations.Colonel Baillie
 said, that as the right hon. gentleman opposite had some objection to parts of this bill, and as he could not hope for any success in the other House, unless the measure had previously received the almost unanimous concurrence of this, he would postpone the measure till the next session; but he certainly would bring it forward at an early period then. At the same time, if it met the wishes of gentlemen opposite, he would consent to put his proposition in the shape of resolutions.Lord John Russell
736 said, that if this bill, should be permitted to pass into a law, the commissioners would feel it their duty to lose no time in carrying it into execution. He could not, however, speak accurately as to the time when these improvements would be commenced, until, by purchase or exchange, he gained possession of the buildings which would have to be pulled down. He should, however, feel it his duty to consult the public accommodation as much as possible. As he was up, he would take that opportunity of correcting a mistake which had gone abroad, respecting what he had said on a former occasion. It had been represented, that he had said, in answer to a suggestion that these improvements could
736Mr. Arbuthnot
 agreed, that this bill would be a most important improvement in the existing laws respecting debtor and creditor. He thought that the clause in the bill, which went to enable partners, if they thought proper, to arrange their affairs, without being obliged to undergo the expensive process of bankruptcy, would have the best effect. He could see no reason why the bill should not have a retrospective operation. There were many cases of parties who wished to settle their affairs, to which the application of this clause would be an object. He therefore thought that the bill should include all cases of compromise in future, as well as those which might now be in progress.Mr. Sykes
 explained, that he only alluded to the acts of the English parliament, as illustrations of the mode in which the matter had been understood by the parties concerned. When confident assertions were made, unless something was said against them, it might be supposed that the House acquiesced in the accuracy of such assertions. The Catholics could not expect that they should, as in their own Association, have all the debate on their own side.Mr. Dawson
726725724 trusted the House would excuse his saying a few words, for not only did these petitions concern the parties by whom they were signed, but materially affected the character of the government and people of Ireland. These petitions were the production of the new Catholic Association, which, not, withstand-
726725724Mr. Dawson
 was willing to receive any suggestion which gentlemen would be so kind as to make with respect to this bill. All he wished for was, a full and fair discussion.Mr. Bright
723 presented a petition from the inhabitants of Coggeshall in favour of this bill. He took occasion to observe, that he had to apologize to the House for not having brought forward the bill relating to this subject at an earlier period. It was his intention to bring it forward on
723Mr. Bright
742741 said, that notwithstanding the thin state of the House, he would take that opportunity of making a few observations on this bill. He knew and lamented the indifference with which all subjects connected with India were treated by the people of England; but, involving as it did, the question of the government over a hundred millions of people, it was entitled to the most serious consideration. One reason of that indifference was, that the Commons of England had no opportunity of examining very minutely into the matter, for want of the information necessary to enable them to understand it. An immense quantity of papers lately published by the East-India Company did, it was true, contain that information; but they were not before the House. He had, with great labour, waded through the whole of the mass to which he alluded, for the purpose of enabling him to form his own opinion on the subject; and he wished that it was placed in the hands of all the members of the House. He believed that the result would be extremely beneficial to the country, and useful to the interests of India. At present, the generality of the people of England knew nothing of the affairs of India, but what they learned from the gazettes. It was a fact, that the very last papers respecting the progress of the Burmese campaign, which were published in the London Gazette, were not official papers, but copies, or extracts taken from copies, of private letters [hear, from Mr. Wynn].
742741Mr. Bright
 said, he felt it was impossible, at that late period of the session, to pass this bill through the different stages with the deliberation to which its importance entitled it. He was aware, too, that the right hon. gentleman had not been able to give his attention to the subject. He would therefore postpone it to another year.Mr. J. P. Grant
737 said, that the incompetency of the persons who had been formerly sent out to India, to fill the situations in which they had been placed, had been the cause of the most serious mischiefs, and had brought this country into great disrepute there. It was in order to correct this evil that the East-India college had been founded, and, in his opinion, the experiment had fully succeeded. The requiring of the certificate, that a party wishing to go out to India in the civil service had been properly educated for such purpose, had, in his opinion, had a most beneficial effect in preventing incompetent persons from being sent out. He could, indeed, have wished that the certificate had been incorporated in the bill itself. Some honourable members, and amongst them his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, supported this bill as a means of getting rid of the college, which they considered a failure altogether. Now, he looked upon the college in a very different light indeed, he considered it as the only mode which had yet been devised of controlling that abuse of patronage which had formerly prevailed so extensively amongst the directors. He appealed to the right hon. secretary opposite, who, on all subjects, was a high authority, and particularly on the affairs of India; he appealed to him, whether he could approve the expediency of removing this only effectual check over that large discretionary power possessed by the company. He trusted the subject would not be left in the vague and uncertain state in which it before was. In this college he felt a deep personal interest that would not influence his judgment,
737Mr. Denman
 expressed his entire concurrence in the opinion of the right hon. gentleman with respect to the propriety of engrafting such an establishment as an East-India College, upon one of the Universities.Mr. Denman
 rose to present two most important petitions, signed by upwards of 40,000 Roman Catholics. The first petition complainted of the law of Corporations in Ireland as it affected Roman Catholics; and the second complained that the conditions of the Treaty of Limerick had not been complied with. All parties, whether for or against the question of Catholic emancipation, seemed, he said, to concur in thinking that the present time was not the most favourable for the agitation of that question. In compliance with that feeling, he would not at present enter into any discussion on those petitions, as they necessarily involved the general question of Catholic emancipation. He could, however, if necessary, prove the injustice and impolicy of continuing those religious disabilities to which the Catholic population of Ireland were subjected; and if it were necessary, he could also show that the complaints embodied in these petitions were founded on truth and justice.Mr. Spring Rice
731730729728727 said, he regretted much the course which the debate had taken; but the responsibility must rest with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down,
731730729728727Mr. Spring Rice
 in reply, said, that this construction had been put on the Treaty of Limerick by some of the most eminent crown lawyers in Ireland. He should be most willing to argue the question on this ground with the right hon. gentleman.Mr. S. Rice,
 said, that all his experience contradicted the assertion, that previous to the establishment of this college, the persons sent out to India were uneducated. It was now many years since he and his hon. and learned friend opposite were schoolfellows at Eton; and many of the young men who had at that time received their education at that establishment, had since been distinguished in the service in India. In his opinion, the civil service had been very little improved by the establishment of the college, which had, he conceived, totally failed to answer the purpose for which it had been founded.Mr. Trant
732 said, that little remained for him to offer, after the triumphant answer given by his hon. friend to the speech of the hon. gentleman opposite. Indeed, attacks from that hon. gentleman upon the Irish Catholics for intemperance came with the worst possible grace; for, both in that house and out of it, he had been himself remarkable for heaping vituperation upon them. To follow up that practice on the present occasion, was very ill-advised, considering the official station which the hon. gentleman filled. Equally singular was it, that the hon. member, of all men, should have revived the worn-out attempt to bind Ireland by resolutions of a British House of Commons, when his constituents had eminently signalized themselves, at the time of the establishment of Irish independence, in resisting that usurpation, and had sent forth their volunteers to assert the cause of their country. He had, however, lived to see a member for Derry re-assert and venture to justify that gross and nefarious usurpation, long after the resistance made to it
732Sir John Newport
739 said, he could bear testimony to the dangers to which young men were exposed during their continuance in Calcutta. They often imbibed habits which proved extremely preju-
739Sir T. Baring
766s765 rose to give notice of a motion for to-morrow, with regard to the distresses which now pressed down the working and manufacturing population of the country. He was sure, he said, that a measure of relief at the present crisis would come home to the feelings of every member of the House; and, whatever might be the inexpediency of interfering to disturb a measure which government had refrained from altering, there were moments when general expediency should give way to cases of particular emergency. Under the existing distresses, it was the intention of government to propose to the House a measure the least pregnant with evil, and the most calculated to do good. In the neighbourhood of those districts where the distresses most generally prevailed, there was a large quantity of corn in bond, which, by the existing law, could not now come into consumption. On a late occasion, when the corn question was debated in the House, government had decided, that no alteration should this year be made in the Corn-laws; and the determination was made in the firm persuasion that the present was not the time to bring the measure forward; and their opinion on that point was still the same. It did appear, however, that, under the present painful circumstances, a measure might be resorted to, without in any degree prejudicing the general question. It was therefore the intention of government to propose a bill to enable the
766s765Mr. Secretary Canning
772 said, that he earnestly hoped that those citizens of London who had the means of contributing to the relief of the distress now existing, would not be checked in their charitable efforts by any thing that had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had just resumed his seat. Government had felt it their duty to step forward in aid of those efforts, and the House must know that their situation was one full of difficulty. But, in submitting any proposition to parliament, the thing which of all others they deprecated was, that what they felt themselves bound to do should have, the slightest tendency to damp that
772The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped he might be allowed to add a word to what had fallen from his right hon. friends. It had been his painful duty to receive reports of the distress which existed, and of the disorders which arose out of it, and to take the most effectual steps in his power to repress those disorders, and to prevent their recurrence. Yet, while he did this, he could not withhold the expression of his deep commiseration at the severity of the distress, or his admiration at the patience and forbearance with which (with some few exceptions) that severity of suffering had hitherto been borne in the manufacturing districts. He had every confidence in the effect of the measures now proposed, and of the exertions which he had no doubt would be made to render them still more effectual; and he hoped that this occasion would be the means of strengthening those bonds which united the higher and the lower classes in this country, by affording additional manifestations of great liberality on the one side, and of a grateful sense of it on the other. He trusted that they who were blessed with superfluous wealth would use their efforts on this occasion in the most effectual manner to mitigate and, if possible, remove the sufferings of their distressed countrymen. Immediate and active measures for this purpose would be considered more necessary here, when it was recollected what had been already done by the charitable efforts of the local authorities and the affluent residents in the districts. In some places, three subscriptions had been already raised; in others most liberal donations had flowed from the bounty of private individuals; and, in all, the most humane exertions had been made by the rich to administer to the wants of their poor neighbours. All these had yet been found insufficient to meet the evil; but he looked forward with a confident hope that the result of the meeting, which was to be held in the city to-morrow, would accomplish that object.Mr. Secretary Peel
 expressed his full concurrence in the measure proposed by government, and agreed also that the present was not the fit moment for entering into a discussion upon it. At the same time, after what had fallen from the hon. member for Wotton-Bassett, he could not confine himself to a simple acquiescence in the proposition. He was anxious to state—Mr. E. Wodehouse
 said, he had no intention of going into any discussion at present, or to offer the slightest opposition to the measure. On the contrary, he congratulated the country on the proposition by which a very considerable relief would be afforded to the distressed districts. At the same time he must say, that the country gentlemen, who really were all disposed to concur in any measure by which relief might be afforded, were not fairly dealt with by some hon. members who differed from them on the general question of the Corn-laws. It was not long since the supporters of those laws were told in that House, that they were devoid of common honour, common honesty, and common sense, and were also said to be devoid even of Christian and humane feeling. This was the language held by the noble member for the county of York.Mr. E. Wodehouse
 expressed his concurrence in the measure, and added, that he did not believe there was one among the country gentlemen who was not ready to do every thing in his power to relieve the distresses of the manufacturing classes. The measure now stated to the House would, he had no doubt, give much relief. At the same time, he should hope that the right hon. gentleman would, in carrying it into effect, keep within the limits he had prescribed. He admitted and lamented the existence of the distresses in the north; but he could assure the House, that there also existed a considerable degree of distress among the agricultural classes in the south. Government, he was glad to say, had behaved with great kindness in answer to several applications made to them on the subject, and he trusted that some applications now before them, would meet with similar attention.Mr. Curteis
 said, that under these circumstances he would reserve himself until he should hear the propositions of ministers to-morrow, and exercise his own discretion as to whether he should bring forward the subject in a separate motion on Thursday.Mr. Ellice
768 rose for the purpose of asking the right hon. gentleman, whether the present was the only measure which government had to propose to the House? He was aware of the steps which had been taken to repress any violent proceedings in the manufacturing districts, and he concurred in their propriety; for, what ever was the cause of the distress there, any attempts upon the security of property ought not to be suffered to exist for one hour. He was satisfied that the power to put an end to violent proceedings was in good hands, and that it would be used with firmness and moderation. But, at the same time, that violent proceedings should be repressed, some immediate relief should be given to the great sufferings which pressed on the unfortunate manufacturers of those districts. Aware of the great extent and severity of the distress, he had come down to the House that day, to ask whether it was not the intention of government to grant some direct and immediate relief; and, if he should be answered in the negative, to give notice of a motion for the grant of a specific sum for that object, and introduce the subject on the discussion of the motion of his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) on the state of the nation, on Thursday. The mere act of making corn more plentiful and cheap would not relieve the wants of the
768Mr. Ellice
 said, it was not at present the intention of government to submit any other measure to the House than those of which he had already given notice. He did not, however, think proper to enter at that moment into any discussion of the grounds on which the decision of government rested.Mr. Canning
767 rose for the purpose of
767Mr. Canning
 assured the hon. member, that he should consider himself as acting most unworthily, if, under cover of a temporary measure, he should either now, or at any future time, insidiously carry it further, so as to affect the greater question; with which he would admit it was in some degree allied. While he expressed this on his own part, he would hope that the hon. member would not complicate this question, by mixing it up with measures with which it was not necessarily connected.Mr. Canning
769 wished to remind the hon. member, that the question did not stand now for consideration. But nothing would be lost by a delay of the discussion until the matter was brought regularly forward, as the House must be aware that the discussion on the bill which it was intended to introduce, would let in ail the topics which it could be possible to urge at present. He also put it to the House, whether it would not be better that, in the outset of measures on this critical occasion, there should not appear to be that difference of opinion amongst members, respecting the relief to be afforded, which, if it did not altogether spoil the effect of,
769Mr. Canning
 said, he so understood it, but he had taken the opportunity of stating the opinion of a very intelligent manufacturer, that the importation of corn would be a most important advantage; not so much, as it would lower the price of corn, but as it would afford the means of a vent for a large proportion of manufactured goods.Mr. Philips
 said, that he also felt great gratification at hearing that it was the intention of government to propose a measure likely to be productive of such important benefit to the country. He was not disposed to enter at present into any discussion; but he could not avoid stating what he had recently heard from a very intelligent gentleman connected with the manufacturing districts. It was his own opinion, that the stock of cotton in the possession of the manufacturers was not very great, owing to the very high prices to which it had been artificially raised last year. In this opinion, he was fully borne out by the statement of the gentleman to whom he alluded. That gentleman stated further, that his House was ready to go on with business, if there was any prospect of obtaining returns; but at present the state of the exchanges was not favourable, and remittances could not be made without a certain loss. He added, that, if an importation of foreign corn was allowed, it would afford an opportunity of obtaining a vent for their produce, and the advantage which the manufacturers desired by this measure was not so much the lowering of the price of corn here, as the obtaining a mode of disposing of their goods elsewhere. Though he would not offer any objection to the temporary measure now proposed, which he felt would be productive of much good, yet he thought the most effectual way to prevent a recurrence of the calamities under which the manufacturing districts were now suffering, would be to allow as a permanent measure the importation of corn under certain fixed duties.Mr. Philips
 rose to order, and wished to have the opinion of the chair as to whether the hon. member was not irregular in thus proceeding, there being no question before the House?Mr. H. Sumner
 begged to put it to the hon. member, whether he was not entering on matter which must lead to the discussion that he himself had already deprecated? Any partial discussion, until the matter came regularly before the House must be injurious.Mr. Tierney
 rose only for the purpose of saying that he felt the most perfect satisfaction at what he had heard from the right hon. gentleman. He entirely concurred in all that he had stated. He trusted that the proposition would meet with the unanimous concurrence of the House; for this was an occasion on which it was peculiarly desirable that no discussion that could possibly savour of disagreement might occur.Mr. Tierney
774 said, he did not rise for the purpose of prolonging this discussion, but merely to make a remark, which might be important to be known; namely, that there existed in the city a very general sentiment, that on such occasions as that of the meeting to be held to-morrow, the inhabitants of London were not efficiently assisted by persons of rank and fashion at the west end of the town. He did not make this remark without foundation; for he himself had witnessed it in several instances. He hoped, however, that those to whom he alluded, who could spare time, would attend at the meeting to-morrow, and that they who might not be able to attend would send liberal subscriptions. He hoped this hint would not be lost at the present alarming crisis, when every possible exertion should be made by all
774Mr. J. Smith
 said, that while he concurred with his majesty's ministers in the propriety of the measure of which they had given notice, he also agreed with the hon. member for Coventry, that that measure alone would not be sufficient. It would be necessary to give the people some means of purchasing the bread thus rendered cheaper. It was not a want of corn but a want of employment, and consequently of the means of purchasing food, which caused the distresses now felt in the manufacturing districts. He had every hope that the meeting to be held in the city to-morrow would be productive of much; but still he could not anticipate that its result would be sufficient to meet the evil to its whole extent. Under these circumstances, he thought that government ought to come forward with some proposition for affording pecuniary aid; and that, if any measure was intended, it ought to be made known at once, intead of going to the city for relief in the first instance. He would suggest that, if pecuniary aid was afforded, it might be advanced to the parishes in the distressed districts in aid of the poor-rates, and the application of it confided to the local authorities, who would have the best means of knowing cases in which relief was most required.Mr. T. Wilson
771 then resumed. He must say, that any man who did not feel deeply for the frightful distress which now existed in so many parts of the country, did not deserve the name of Englishman. Why, if the unfortunate people now suffering were blacks, the House would never hear the end of it. The table would be loaded with petitions from all parts of the country, as they had recently seen with respect to negro slavery. Why did not the party called the saints come forward on this occasion, and exert themselves in the mitigation of human suffering which existed almost at their own doors? Why did they not get rid of their colonial, or rather anti-colonial office, and send down part of the large sums subscribed to the sufferers at Blackburn? Half the sums which they had expended in printing petitions, would, if sent down and distributed among the distressed districts, do more good in a day, than they with all their printing and parchment would be able to effect during their lives. He would repeat, that the distress was of that dreadful character, that it required
771Mr. James
l770l said, that he fully concurred in the observation of the hon. member for Coventry, that some immediate pecuniary relief should be afforded by parliament. It would be absolutely useless to throw a supply of corn into the market, if some means were not afforded to the starving poor to purchase it. He thought that ministers would do well to imitate the excellent example of his majesty, and give up a part of their large salaries to prevent their countrymen from starving. They ought also to review the estimates, in order to ascertain what sums might be saved, to rescue thousands of poor starving manufacturers from destruction. Was this a time to lay out so large a sum as 9,000l770lMr. James
773 said, that, if the whole of the country gentlemen knew, as they were now sure to know, of this proposition, it would meet with their full con-
773Sir J. Wrottesley
812s.s.811810 said, he could not give a vote upon the present occasion, without stating to the House, the grounds upon which he was induced to vote. He wished he could agree with the right hon. gentleman opposite, that the effect of the measures proposed would be the introducing of a cordiality of feeling between all
812s.s.811810Mr. Calcraft
 in explanation, said, that he had never asserted that the stock of corn on hand was so short as not to be sufficient to carry us on till the next harvest.Mr. Whitmore,
 declared, that he would oppose the second resolution; because he considered that it involved the whole question of the Corn-laws.Sir J. Sebright
s.s.s. wished the right hon. Secretary would add 5s.s.s.Sir T. Lethbridge
s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.829s.,s.s. observed, that the hon. baronet mistook the principle on which the duty of 5s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.829s.,s.s.Mr. Secretary Canning
 remarked, that the very reason why no particular price had been fixed was to be found in the last observation of the hon. gentleman; namely, that the agricultural gentlemen would, if any particular price had now been named, look on it as implying the future price of corn. For his own part, he was not bigotted to either decision, and whether the discretion was unlimited or limited, he again assured the committee, that it would not have the effect of settling the general question. The present resolution did not enter into particulars; it regulated neither the time nor price, but simply conveyed the power.Mr. Secretary Canning
 declared himself hostile to the second resolution, and hoped that ministers would not press it.Colonel Wood
778 opposed the second reading, on the ground that it was one of most extensive importance; and that it was impossible that the parties interested in it could have proper notice of it. The magnitude of the change which it would introduce, and the great interests concerned in it, rendered it necessary that such should not be allowed in the same session in which it had been introduced at so late a period. He desired the House to reflect how much the interests of the distant county of Northumberland might be affected by it, and consider how impossible it was that the parties concerned could have such notice of its nature, as to be at this time prepared to oppose it. For his own part, he thought it would be a much better measure to give such freeholders the right of voting for the corporate bodies among whom they were stationed, than to give them the right to vote for the countries. But, at all events, he was satisfied that the another session, and moved, as an amendment, "that the
778Mr. F. Lewis
 recapitulated the reasons which he had stated in favour of the measure on a former night; namely, that the Crown, although it had the separate counties, had no right whatever to deprive the freeholders of the elective franchise; and that this was merely a declaratory law, restoring to certain freeholders a right which had long remained dormant, but had never been forfeited. He proposed, however, that the bill should, at any rate, be now read a second time and committed; and then, if it were thought necessary, it might remain over for further consideration.Mr. Sykes
 hoped the hon. member for Hull would persevere in his measure, which was as just as it was important.Mr. Jones
 suggested that the measure ought to be postponed till another session.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, that there could be no harm in allowing the bill to be read a second time, and committed, since gentlemen who thought it objectionable would not, by such a step, be in any way pledged not to oppose its subsequent progress.Mr. Calcraft
 said, there could hardly be any objection to the second reading and committal of the bill, on a distinct pledge, that it should not go any further this session.Mr. R. Smith
 however consented to withdraw the bill at present, and it was withdrawn accordingly.Mr. Sykes
780l.l.l.,l.l.779"That the Petitioner having, in the month of February last, seen several of his poor neighbours suffer greatly from the breaking of banks, strongly advised others who held notes of banks not yet broken, to go to those banks and demand gold; that he found people afraid to do this, but that he having offered to do it for them, there were brought to do it several persons, notes of there Norwich Banks, in order that he might get the gold in exchange for the said notes; that on the 11th of February he went to the Bank of Joseph Gurney, Hudson Gurney, Richard H. Gurney, and Joseph John Gurney, the second two of whom are members of the House; that he
780l.l.l.,l.l.779 presented a petition from James Cannell, of Teasburgh, in Norfolk; setting forth:—
780l.l.l.,l.l.779"That the Petitioner having, in the month of February last, seen several of his poor neighbours suffer greatly from the breaking of banks, strongly advised others who held notes of banks not yet broken, to go to those banks and demand gold; that he found people afraid to do this, but that he having offered to do it for them, there were brought to do it several persons, notes of there Norwich Banks, in order that he might get the gold in exchange for the said notes; that on the 11th of February he went to the Bank of Joseph Gurney, Hudson Gurney, Richard H. Gurney, and Joseph John Gurney, the second two of whom are members of the House; that he
780l.l.l.,l.l.779Lord Folkestone
784783s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.d.s.s.,782s.781"That the Petitioners' most anxious attention was directed to the first application to the House from certain merchants of the city of London, in which they submitted their conviction of the impolicy and injustice of the restrictive system applied to commerce, and expressed their objection to every restrictive regulation of trade, not essential to the revenue, against all duties merely protective from foreign competition, and against the excess of such duties as are partly for the purpose of revenue, and partly for that of protection, and praying for relief; this petition was followed by other petitions to the House from many of the manufacturing districts praying for the repeal
784783s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.d.s.s.,782s.781 presented a petition from the Ship-owners in London, setting forth,
784783s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.d.s.s.,782s.781"That the Petitioners' most anxious attention was directed to the first application to the House from certain merchants of the city of London, in which they submitted their conviction of the impolicy and injustice of the restrictive system applied to commerce, and expressed their objection to every restrictive regulation of trade, not essential to the revenue, against all duties merely protective from foreign competition, and against the excess of such duties as are partly for the purpose of revenue, and partly for that of protection, and praying for relief; this petition was followed by other petitions to the House from many of the manufacturing districts praying for the repeal
784783s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.d.s.s.,782s.781Mr. Robertson
 Canning moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a committee on the act of the 3rd Geo. 4th, cap. 60, respecting the Corn-laws.Mr. Secretary
s.s.s.791s.,790s.s.789s.788787786s.785 said, it gave him great pain to offer any opposition to the measure which he understood was to be submitted to the House by the right hon. the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He knew the full extent of the responsibility which every gentleman must incur who ventured to put himself forward for such a purpose at this moment, when the country was looking to the proposition of the right hon. gentleman as the means
s.s.s.791s.,790s.s.789s.788787786s.785Sir T. Lethbridge
794s.s.s.s.,s.s.s.s.s.,s.793s.792 complained, that the proposition which was to be made to the House was another instance of the vacillation of ministers, and to that, more than to any other circumstance, he was inclined to attribute the present distress. Fourteen days ago this question had been settled, and the whole subject of the Corn-laws, it was understood, was not to be discussed again during the present session. This decision had been come to by a large majority of the House; and yet so soon after this it was, that the House was called upon to disturb all the
794s.s.s.s.,s.s.s.s.s.,s.793s.792Mr. Benelt
799s.,798s.s.s.s.s.797796795 said, that, in simply making his motion, without prefacing it by any observation, he had been actuated by no want of respect for the opinions of those who differed from him; but he had thought, and he thought so still, that whatever discussion was to arise would have been most conveniently taken in the committee. As some hon. gentlemen, however, were of a different way of thinking, he could have no hesitation in adopting whatever course seemed to them most desirable, and would therefore, at once, trouble the House
799s.,798s.s.s.s.s.797796795Mr. Secretary Canning
s.800 thought, that the measures of ministers ought to have been taken much earlier; he thought, too, that there could be nothing in their policy which might not be more fully explained than it had been so far. The right hon. Secretary complained that the present measure was coupled with the general question of the Corn-laws. But, how was it possible to disconnect one from the other? There was a prevailing opinion among the lower classes, that they were suffering from the operation of the Corn-laws. The right hon. Secretary, who in words denied that
s.800Mr. Bankes
802s.,s.s.,s.801 thought that the measure proposed would serve only to aggravate the existing evil. The distress arose from a failure of demand consequent upon the recent commercial distresses, and from the glut of British manufactures which existed in all the markets of the world. If the bonded corn was allowed to be brought into the country, the agricultural interest would take alarm, and a panic would follow its introduction which it would not be easy to allay. Another consequence of that measure would be, that corn would be brought down to half its present price, and it would not, after all, produce the desired effect; for it would be brought forward to a starving and impoverished people, who would not have
802s.,s.s.,s.801Mr. Robertson
804s.s.,s.,s.,s.803 said, he could not, as some gentlemen seemed to do, consider the present measure as unconnected with the general question of the Corn laws, which he so lately had brought before the notice of the House; and, however he might have succeeded in making himself intelligible to those who heard him on that occasion, he was fearful that his views and opinions had not gone forth to the country in as clear a way as he could have wished. He stated then, and repeated now, that the time was arrived when the subject of the Corn laws should engage the most serious attention of the House. Government, however, had thought otherwise; and the further agitation of that great question was accordingly deferred. Under the present afflicting circumstances of the country, he was of opinion, that the measure proposed by his majesty's government would have the best effect; and, looking at the existing distress, he was persuaded, that, if parliament was dissolved without alleviating that distress, as far as might be practicable, consequences the most disastrous would follow. Had the House reflected on all the consequences of this measure? Perhaps, he should be allowed to explain, that the stock of corn in bond was now comparatively small; and that if the ensuing harvest should happen to be unproductive, the present measure would be absolutely necessary. He conceived that in the usual state of the country, taking one year with another, the produce was not equal to the consumption. If the contrary were the fact, and if the produce could be proved to exceed the consumption, there would not be any occasion for a revision of the Corn laws. He was borne out in his assertion of the deficiency of produce to meet the consumption, by the average importation, taken on the average of every ten years, from 1780 to 1820; from which it would be seen that it had been progressively increasing. From 1780 to 1789, the importation was 230,330 quarters; from 1790 to 1799, it was 320,609 quarters; from 1800 to 1809, it was 574,753 quarters; from 1810 to 1820, it was 684,642 quarters. This included the importations from Ireland; deducting which, the importation was 508,583 quarters. Now, from the year
804s.s.,s.,s.,s.803Mr. Whitmore
s.,s.s.s.s.806s.s.s.s.,s.805 said, that the hon. gentleman had observed, that this country had grown corn hardly equal to its consumption. But, what was the fact? For the last seven years the country had been living on its own produce, and no importation of foreign grain had taken place during that time. The hon. gentleman had said on a former night, that in the internal trade of corn in this country there was a; great falling-off. He begged to deny that. In the year 1822, there was a greater quantity of corn sold in Marklane than on any other occasion. He thought that this measure was the safest; that could be resorted to under the present distressing circumstances; yet, although he regretted as much as any gentleman present the existence of distress in the manufacturing districts, and would go as far to relieve them, he confessed that he was not very sanguine as to the benefit which this measure would effect. He should regret, if the disturbed dis-
s.,s.s.s.s.806s.s.s.s.,s.805Colonel Wood
816815s.,s.814813 began by observing, that after the promise which ministers had made last year, to discuss the question of the Corn-laws, and after their deprecation of that discussion in the present year, he did think that the agricultural interest had just cause to complain that that question was now, in fact, introduced in this side manner. He thought that in any form in which the motion for a grant might be brought forward, it was objectionable as a bad precedent. How did the present state of the country operate on this question? There were many
816815s.,s.814813Lord John Russell
828s., wished to state, that he had always declared, both in that House and out of it, that he did not wish to leave the importation price at 80828s.,Mr. E. Wodehouse
 consented, most unwillingly, he allowed, to the hon. member's proposal of reporting progress. He could not, however, do so without declaring, that he considered the opposition displayed on the present occasion to be as unreasonable as it was inconvenient. The House then resumed, and the chairman reported progress.Mr. Canning
809 said, he should regret much if the proposed measures should not be carried, because he was satisfied, that the effect would be not only to retard an advance in the price of provisions, but, by increasing our exports, to give employment to those who were now unemployed. It had been stated by many hon. members, that the manufacturing population attributed all their calamities to the present price of corn; but he was convinced that such an opinion was not general among those classes, and that the course pursued by the hon. gentlemen who put themselves forward as the advocates of the agricultural interest was the principal cause of having such an opinion entertained by some of those classes. He could assure those hon. members who spoke so slightingly of the manufacturers, many of whom were in an inferior station of life, that they had more correct notions upon the subject than hon. members gave them credit for, and that many of those
809Mr. Philips
 said, that this was the supplement to the petition of Mr. William Cobbett, giving the details of the transactions on which Mr. Cobbett had animadverted, and proving that the bankers had acted throughout in a manner in which they were perfectly justified.Mr. Hudson Gurney
s.s.830 objected to conferring the proposed power on ministers, not because he distrusted them particularly, but because it was a power with which no administration should be trusted. If, however, the committee should give ministers the power which they asked for, he would
s.s.830Mr. Benett
827 began by lamenting over the desperate condition of the country. He said he had listened with great attention to the speech of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, in expectation of hearing some measures of relief proposed; but, except at the concluding part of his speech, he had hardly alluded to this important part of the question. He had no doubt that the right hon. gentleman and his majesty's ministers felt great anxiety on account of the distress, and an urgent wish to improve the condition of the people; and he was surprised that they stopped where they had stopped, and had not brought forward some measure of practical and immediate relief. By the motion of the right hon. Secretary, and the motion of the hon. baronet, the House was placed in an embarrassing dilemma. If, on the one hand, they should adopt the motion of the hon. baronet, they would appear indifferent to the sufferings of the people; and if, on the other, they should vote with the right
827Mr. John Williams
826825824s.s.823s.s.s.822s.821d.s.d.s.s.820s.,s.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.819s.s.818s.s.817 said, that after all the speeches he had heard on the subject that night from the other side of the House, he still retained the same opinion which he expressed a fortnight back, that the present was not a proper time for going into a general revision of the Corn-laws. He had heard nothing upon the present occasion which tended, in the slightest degree, to shake that opinion. It would, perhaps, be more correct to say, that he was confirmed in that opinion by all that had passed out of doors since what he must call the unfortunate discussion of the subject, not many nights back in the House. After what he had stated upon that occasion with respect to the final settlement of the question, they must take a very different view of it from him, who thought that the present was a fit time for entering into it. It was not a little surprising, that when his right hon. friend announced last night what government meant to propose, and the reasons on which it was grounded, there did appear to be, on all sides of the House, a spontaneous, cordial, and universal concurrence in the proposition, greater than he ever recollected upon any former occasion. Not only did this strong concurrence of sentiment manifest itself, but also a determination, that when the subject came to be considered on the next night, it was not to be mixed up with the general question of the Corn-laws, or any other heterogeneous consideration. This he looked upon as a happy omen; and had the same feelings continued to influence the House, the best results must have followed. It would seem now, however, that some new light had broken in upon hon. gentlemen, and accordingly, with an ingenuity which he could not well comprehend, it was boldly inferred, that the only effect of the measure now proposed, would be, to confirm the manufacturing population in an opinion, that the cause of all their distresses was the Corn-laws, and that the
826825824s.s.823s.s.s.822s.821d.s.d.s.s.820s.,s.d.s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.819s.s.818s.s.817Mr. Huskisson
 said, that the question at present was merely, whether or not they would, by passing the resolutions, sanction the principle of the measures which had been proposed? If they did sanction the principle, it would be a matter of public convenience to assent to the resolutions on the present occasion. He saw, indeed, no sufficient ground of opposition, because many opportunities would be afforded hereafter to discuss the details.Mr. Huskisson
 expressed himself favourable to a grant of money by the government for the relief of the distressed manufacturers; and, as he could not see that the measures proposed by the right hon. gentleman offered any remedy for the distress, he should support the amendment of the hon. member for Somersetshire, provided there should be an instruction to the committee to dispose of the bonded corn. He thought the House ought, by releasing the bonded corn, to give an earnest of their good intentions towards the distressed manufacturers; but his most decided objection to the second measure was, that no beneficial object could be obtained by it which could not be obtained by his majesty's government acting upon their own responsibility, and coming afterwards to parliament for an act of indemnity.Sir J. Newport
 said, that he, in common, he believed, with many members, entertained considerable objections to this resolution, and thought that it ought not to pass, at least without further discussion. He therefore moved, as an amendment, "that the chairman do report progress, and ask leave to sit again."Lord Milton
808807 said, he had paid great attention to the speech of his hon. friend who had last addressed the House, but he trusted his hon. friend would forgive him for saying, that, as his speech was rather calculated for Tuesday, the 18th of April, than for Tuesday the 2nd of May, he would not that evening enter into an argument with him. He could not help expressing his regret at the course pursued by his majesty's government on this occasion. Undoubtedly, during the three days preceding yesterday, every body anticipated some communication from the Crown to parliament, relative to the distresses of the manufacturing districts. Different people according to the different views they took of the state of the country, and the remedies applicable to it
808807Lord Milton
832 presented a petition from Paisley, setting forth,832Lord Folkestone
 said, he would take that opportunity of asking whether any report might be expected this session from the committee of Inquiry, relative to the circulation of small notes in Scotland and Ireland; and also whether, if that report should be laid before the House this session, it was intended to bring in any measure founded upon it?Lord Folkestone
 assured the right hon. gentleman, that he had put the question merely for the sake of information, and in order to ascertain how the fact really was. The petition was one highly deserving of the attention of the House. The distress at Paisley and Glasgow was extreme, yet not a word was there in the petition to show that the petitioners laboured in the slightest degree under the delusion, that their sufferings resulted from the Corn-laws. The petition was important, not only for what it did state, but for what it did not state. Ministers, in his opinion, were deeply culpable for their recent conduct, which tended directly to foment the delusion respecting the Corn-laws. The noble lord stated, that if an apprehension had not prevailed at Paisley, that parliament was about to be dissolved immediately, and the petition had remained there a few days longer for signatures, many thousands more would have been added to it.Lord Folkestone
 thought, that, if any change was to be made in the currency of Scotland, such alteration would prove ruinous to the country. If Scotland knew its own interest, it would cover the table of the House with petitions against such a measure. Indeed, with the exception of the present petition, and one from the town of Dunse, there seemed to be but one opinion on this subject all through Scotland.Mr. Maberly
 wished to guard himself against being supposed to acquiesce in the sentiments of the petition, or to concur in the doctrines which it contained. It put forth as an axiom, that which was extremely doubtful; and many of its conclusions were inconsistent one with the other. He, therefore, protested against letting that petition be considered as a manual of political economy on this subject. As to the question, whether the Corn-laws had been instrumental in creating any part of the present distress—he thought no man could have a doubt about it; but then, it was not in the manner which some gentlemen supposed. That distress was brought about by the recent interruption of trade; which circumstance must, of course, have had its effect upon agricultural produce. With respect to the question to which the petition related, whenever the noble lord brought forward the subject, he should endeavour to shew, that the conclusions contained in the petition were contradictory in themselves.Sir F. Burdett
 considered it a very sensible and well-argued petition, and on that score he would venture to say it was deserving of the serious attention of the House. He was well aware that numerous petitions had been presented on the other side; but this showed that the unanimity of opinion on this subject was not so great as had been represented; and, within the last two months, a considerable change had taken place in the opinions of persons in Scotland on this question.Lord Folkestone
837s.836 presented a petition from an individual named William Phillips,
837s.836Sir T. Lethbridge
 begged to assure the right hon. gentleman, that he had not the slightest intention of making any such insinuation against him as he had supposed, though he must still declare his belief respecting the activity which prevailed in the corn-market at Liverpool on the day mentioned.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he had heard the remarks of the hon. baronet, and was so far from having had the slightest suspicion of the imputation which the right hon. gentleman supposed, that when he rose to repel it he was quite surprised.Sir F. Burdett
s.s. gave it as his decided opinion, and also as the opinion of all those with whom he had conversed on the subject, that, if this measure should be adopted, the Corn-law question would be settled, and that we should have the ports open at a duty of 12s.s.Sir J. Sebright
 said, he did not wish to prolong the discussion, but he thought it important to observe, that whoever might suffer from a change in the Corn-laws, the petitioner, at all events, had no reason to complain. When the permission of taking out bonded corn, upon the payment of ten shillings, was given last year, it was with the understanding, that the question of the Corn-laws was to be decided during the present session; and, therefore, if he was to suffer from any change in the laws, he could not say now he had not received sufficient notice of the alteration.Mr. Whitmore
l.881l.l.l.880879 rose. He said, it was not until 11 o'clock that morning, that he was put in possession of the series of resolutions to which the hon. gentleman had just called the attention of the House; and when he stated, that those resolutions were no less than forty-seven in number, and occupied twenty-six printed pages, embracing the intricate question of the finance of the country in all its minute details, the funded debt, the unfunded debt, the sinking fund, the general state of the revenue,—divided as it was into a great variety of branches, to many of which these resolutions referred,—when he stated, that the proposition of the hon. gentleman comprised almost every topic that could be introduced into a discussion on the great interests of the country, he thought the House would not be surprised
l.881l.l.l.880879The Chancellor of the Exchequer
889888887886l.l.885884l.l.,l.l.l.883l.882l.l.l.l.l.l.l. continued—What he stated was, that, comparing the debt as it stood on the 5th of January, 1816, with its amount on the 5th of January 1823, there was, in point of fact, an actual reduction; which reduction could not be accounted for, except by reference to the application, in some way or other, of a surplus revenue. On the 5th of January 1816, the amount of the funded debt was 816,311,446889888887886l.l.885884l.l.,l.l.l.883l.882l.l.l.l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
895l.l.,l. said, that the debt had not been reduced by the sum mentioned by the chancellor of the Exchequer, nor by any sum at all; and so it would have appeared if the accounts had been kept as they ought to have been. But the custom was, to keep them in a most intricate state; so that the fallacies could not be detected without the utmost attention. It turned out, however, that the nominal capital of the debt was 100 millions more than it was in 1819. "But," said the gentlemen opposite, "look at the charge of the debt." He was ready to meet them there too; and would refer to a paper drawn up by as good an accountant as any of these gentlemen. The statement given was by Mr. Higbam, and the result was, that in January, 1819, the debt was 832 millions; in 1826, the amount was 893 millions, being an increase of 61 millions. And then as to the charge of the debt, in 1819 it was 29,045,000895l.l.,l.Mr. Maberly
l.l., expressed his regret, that this motion should have been brought forward and supported by the other side of the House, on the ground that there ought to be now given a relief from taxation. Such a proposition was only holding out delusive hopes to the country; for there was no prospect, in the present state of our revenue, of any relief from that source. Our revenue was 52,000,000l.l.,Mr. Robertson
 spoke to order. He had moved an adjournment of the debate.Mr. Robertson
 having referred to Mr. Alderman Heygate, as having seconded the adjournment,Mr. Robertson
 said, that as it appeared by the rules of the House, that in consequence of having seconded the amendment, he was precluded from speaking on the main question, he would only observe, that he had done so to prevent the premature conclusion of the debate on a subject the most interesting in the present state of the country. This was the only reason why he had seconded the amendment.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 agreed with the noble lord as to the propriety of some such resolution. What they wanted was, steadiness in the conduct of government; and that would soon give steadiness to the laws affecting agriculture.Lord J. Russell
 wished that ministers would be content with the first resolution, relative to the admission of the bonded corn, and would refrain from pressing the second.Mr. Portman
 said, that he did not place the least reliance on the report which had reached his ears respecting the stir in the corn trade in Liverpool on Saturday last. At the same time, he must say, it appeared to him incompatible with the discharge of the duties of the President of the Board of Trade, to represent such an important commercial town as Liverpool.Mr. H. Sumner
 called on ministers to proceed with the measures they had introduced, relative to the corn question. An alteration of the Corn-laws was become essentially necessary to the welfare of the country. Instead of shrinking from their duty, he trusted they would keep parliament together; and, as they had touched it, that they would now thoroughly investigate the whole question. It would be monstrous if parliament were to separate, without having provided for the first wants of the people.Mr. Bright
840 said, he was quite satisfied at the explanation given by the right hon. gentleman; but was not surprised at the indignation with which he had risen to repel the accusation. Nothing could be more satisfactory than the denial; and it appeared to him, that if such a charge was to be preferred, the situation of the right hon. gentleman would be one of extreme hardship: for the right hon. gentleman was placed in circumstances which precluded the possibility of his having made any communication on the subject; and for this simple reason, that on the very day alluded to, it was made a matter of charge against the right hon. gentleman, that, in truth and fact, he himself knew nothing at all about the matter. So far from there having been any decision on the question, neither the right hon. gentleman or his colleagues seemed to have had the slightest concert or deliberation; for they came down to that House, and submitted, as a matter of the greatest importance, a question, of which forty-eight hours before they had not the slightest intention. Before he sat down, he wished to offer an explanation of the vote he had given on a former evening, which was misunderstood by an hon. and learned friend, whom he did not now see in his place. It had been supposed, that they who had voted in the majority were desirous of stopping all inquiry into the distresses of the unfortunate sufferers in the North. He could only say, that as far as his vote went, and that of those who habitually acted with him, nothing could have been further from their thoughts; but, had they voted for the resolution of the hon. baronet, it would, in fact, have had the effect of getting rid altogether of the general measure, to which they attached the highest importance. They regarded even this partial measure as calculated, if not to mitigate, at least to guard against the increase of the existing distresses. Had he voted in any other way than in the majority he should have been guilty of gross inconsistency; but how the consistency of the gentlemen opposite could be made out,
840Mr. Brougham
894893892l.l.l.l.,l.891890 thought, that the right hon. gentleman had misconceived his hon. friend, in supposing that he wished to take the right hon. gentleman by surprise, with respect to the present motion. The right hon. gentleman said, that he had no notice of these resolutions until eleven o'clock that day, when they were forwarded to him. Now, if that were a ground of complaint, he (Mr. Brougham) had still greater cause to complain than
894893892l.l.l.l.,l.891890Mr. Brougham
835 said, that, from the circumstance of many petitions not having been presented this session against the Corn-laws, it was not to be inferred, that the people were indifferent to that question. If they had refrained from petitioning, it was because they considered it useless to do so, when it was understood no discussion was to take place. They viewed the proceedings of parliament, with reference to this subject, with the deepest anxiety. As it had been brought under consideration, it was his opinion that there ought to be a strict in-
835General Gascoyne
 said, that his hon. and learned friend had given a good explanation of his vote, but he thought it would require all the ingenuity of the right hon. gentlemen opposite to explain away the inconsistency of their conduct.Mr. Benett
834 observed, that great attention was due to this petition. The manufacturers of Paisley were suffering as severe distress as any part of the kingdom yet not one single act of outrage had been committed there. He disagreed from
834Mr. J. P. Grant
 agreed with the petitioners as to the danger of a paper currency. Sometimes the circulation was inconveniently contracted, and at others excessively extended. The country was now endeavouring to pay in gold what it had borrowed in a depreciated paper. This attempt was the touchstone that was trying the safety of every class of the community. The difficulties of the state were, he believed, never greater. It was undoubtedly desirable to adhere to the ancient standard, and he thought that, of the two evils, the least would be, to adjust our difficulties to our currency, instead of endeavouring to adjust our currency to our difficulties.Mr. Monck
 said, he did not rely on the words stated in any publication to have been uttered by the right hon. gentleman. He relied on the statements made by that right hon. gentleman himself; statements of which he had a perfect recollection; for, when the discussion was ended he had gone over to the bench on which the right hon. gentleman sat, and had pointed out to him the errors of his statement.Mr. Hume
86786686586486386287,7641826
87,764182686,4381825
86,438182573,0411824
73,041182469,1441823
69,144182368,8021822
68,802182281,1001821
81,100182192,2241820
92,224182080,4791819
80,479181990,2851818
90,285181892,282number voted1817
92,282number voted1817
87,7641826
87,764182686,4381825
86,438182573,0411824
73,041182469,1441823
69,144182368,8021822
68,802182281,1001821
81,100182192,2241820
92,224182080,4791819
80,479181990,2851818
90,285181892,282number voted1817
92,282number voted1817l.l.l.l.l.861860s.s.196,731Increase
196,731Increase2,593,540From 1817 to 1825
2,593,540From 1817 to 18252,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption was
2,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption wasCwts.
Cwts.
196,731Increase
196,731Increase2,593,540From 1817 to 1825
2,593,540From 1817 to 18252,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption was
2,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption wasCwts.
Cwts.Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,041
Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,0411,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822
1,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822£1,895,6571801, 1802, 1803
£1,895,6571801, 1802, 1803
Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,041
Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,0411,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822
1,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822£1,895,6571801, 1802, 1803
£1,895,6571801, 1802, 18032,437,944Diminution
2,437,944Diminution5,223,326From 1819 to 1822
5,223,326From 1819 to 18227,661,270From 1801 to 1803
7,661,270From 1801 to 1803Gallons.
Gallons.
2,437,944Diminution
2,437,944Diminution5,223,326From 1819 to 1822
5,223,326From 1819 to 18227,661,270From 1801 to 1803
7,661,270From 1801 to 1803Gallons.
Gallons.85985828,553,3991825
28,553,399182528,697,0571821
28,697,057182130,479,2021803
30,479,202180331,751,6451799
31,751,645179930,923,4141797
30,923,414179728,661,3741792
28,661,3741792
28,553,3991825
28,553,399182528,697,0571821
28,697,057182130,479,2021803
30,479,202180331,751,6451799
31,751,645179930,923,4141797
30,923,414179728,661,3741792
28,661,3741792857856l.d.s.d.s.855l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.854l.853l.l.l.l.l.l.852l.l.l.l.l.l.l.851l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.850l.l.l.l.849l.l.l.l.848l.l.l.847846l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.845l.l.l.l.£27,327,780Decrease
£27,327,780Decrease819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826
819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817
£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817
£27,327,780Decrease
£27,327,780Decrease819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826
819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817
£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.844843842 in rising to submit to the notice of the House a question so important and so complicated as the present state of the country, claimed a very large share of their indulgence. On former occasions the subject had been introduced by individuals whose talents and consequence entitled them to attention; but, as he possessed no such claim, he would crave the favour of their patient indulgence while he laid before them those statements of which he had given notice more than two months ago. On other occasions the object of such motions had been, to remove, by the consequences of the votes of the House, those ministers whose conduct was impugned in the Resolutions they were called upon to adopt. He
86786686586486386287,7641826
87,764182686,4381825
86,438182573,0411824
73,041182469,1441823
69,144182368,8021822
68,802182281,1001821
81,100182192,2241820
92,224182080,4791819
80,479181990,2851818
90,285181892,282number voted1817
92,282number voted1817
87,7641826
87,764182686,4381825
86,438182573,0411824
73,041182469,1441823
69,144182368,8021822
68,802182281,1001821
81,100182192,2241820
92,224182080,4791819
80,479181990,2851818
90,285181892,282number voted1817
92,282number voted1817l.l.l.l.l.861860s.s.196,731Increase
196,731Increase2,593,540From 1817 to 1825
2,593,540From 1817 to 18252,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption was
2,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption wasCwts.
Cwts.
196,731Increase
196,731Increase2,593,540From 1817 to 1825
2,593,540From 1817 to 18252,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption was
2,406,809From 1808 to 1816 (deducting 1,600,000 cwts used in distillation), the annual consumption wasCwts.
Cwts.Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,041
Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,0411,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822
1,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822£1,895,6571801, 1802, 1803
£1,895,6571801, 1802, 1803
Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,041
Annual decrease, or 30 per cent. 171,0411,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822
1,724,6161819, 1820, 1821, 1822£1,895,6571801, 1802, 1803
£1,895,6571801, 1802, 18032,437,944Diminution
2,437,944Diminution5,223,326From 1819 to 1822
5,223,326From 1819 to 18227,661,270From 1801 to 1803
7,661,270From 1801 to 1803Gallons.
Gallons.
2,437,944Diminution
2,437,944Diminution5,223,326From 1819 to 1822
5,223,326From 1819 to 18227,661,270From 1801 to 1803
7,661,270From 1801 to 1803Gallons.
Gallons.85985828,553,3991825
28,553,399182528,697,0571821
28,697,057182130,479,2021803
30,479,202180331,751,6451799
31,751,645179930,923,4141797
30,923,414179728,661,3741792
28,661,3741792
28,553,3991825
28,553,399182528,697,0571821
28,697,057182130,479,2021803
30,479,202180331,751,6451799
31,751,645179930,923,4141797
30,923,414179728,661,3741792
28,661,3741792857856l.d.s.d.s.855l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.854l.853l.l.l.l.l.l.852l.l.l.l.l.l.l.851l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.850l.l.l.l.849l.l.l.l.848l.l.l.847846l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.845l.l.l.l.£27,327,780Decrease
£27,327,780Decrease819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826
819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817
£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817
£27,327,780Decrease
£27,327,780Decrease819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826
819,437,298Do. 5th January, 1826£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817
£846,767,078Total Debt, 5th January, 1817l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.844843842Mr. Hume,
896 proceeded to reply, observing that he would trouble the House with only a very few words more. He regretted that the chancellor of the Exchequer should have imagined that he intended to say any thing personal against him. He had never intended to do so, although the right hon. gentleman seemed to have imagined that he did. He could assure the right hon. gentleman that when he had made the statement alluded to, he went over to the right hon. gentleman and mentioned, that he was surprised that he could have made such a statement. He had afterwards seen the right hon. gentleman, and showed him clearly,
896Mr. Hume
897l. resumed his reply. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that as his first resolution was erroneous, the whole of the rest depending upon it were gone. But the truth was, no answer had been given to his resolutions. He had put it to the House in the strongest language, that it was necessary to diminish the expenditure, but so as not to touch the public creditor. It was most extraordinary, therefore, that he should have been charged by the hon. member for Grampound with any view to prevent our keeping faith with the public creditor. The plan which he suggested was, to save five millions, by putting an end to the sinking-fund—five millions by so far diminishing the ordinary expenditure. By this means ten millions annually would be saved to the nation. In 1792, the whole of the expenditure for the military, and other ordinary purposes of government, was five and a half millions. In the present year, the expenditure for the same purposes was 26 millions. Now, if the expenditure in 1792 was only from five to six millions, why might not the same purposes be answered now by an expenditure of twelve or thirteen millions? But then, when the expenses of foreign embassies were so extraordinary, and when an ambassador was permitted to expend 30,000897l.Mr. Hume
839 expressed himself quite satisfied with the assurance given by the hon. baronet; but he had felt himself called upon, as a man of honour, to repel an insinuation which he had been given to understand had been thrown out. There was another remark made by the hon. member for Surrey, which he felt himself equally called upon to deny, namely, that it was impossible for him, holding the office he did, to represent the town of Liverpool. He repelled that charge also. He would tell the hon. member for Surrey,
839Mr. Huskisson
838 said, that, as he should have an opportunity to-morrow of discussing this question, he would not now say one word on that subject; nor should he have risen at all, had he not been informed that the hon. baronet had, before he entered the House, made a statement which conveyed an insinuation that persons in Liverpool, if not in London, had received some early intimation of the measure which ministers intended to propose, before it had been brought forward in that House. And as, from his own connexion with Liverpool, he could not avoid concluding that such insinuation must have been directed against himself, he should not be performing a duty which he owed to himself, if he did not repel the charge with the utmost indignation, and most positively and unequivocally declare, that there was not the slightest foundation for it. Indeed, he defied any one to say, that any individual, either in London or Liverpool, had received the slightest intimation from him of the intention of government to bring forward this measure. He would state to the House the only circumstance that had occurred in the matter. He had received a letter about ten days ago, from two eminent corn-factors of Liverpool, and the proposition which that letter contained was, the propriety of allowing the distressed people in Lancashire to purchase the bonded corn, free of duty, for their own use. When he had received that letter, he had
838Mr. Huskisson
 said, he could only state, that the committee were still pursuing the inquiry. Whether, after the examination of all the evidence, they would have time to consider it in all its bearings, so as to make a report this session, was what he could not undertake to say. He could speak only as an individual member of the committee. He had been seldom absent from its sittings, but he felt it quite impossible to give any other answer than that which he had then returned.Mr. Huskisson
 thought, that he should sufficiently answer what had fallen from the hon. gentleman by observing, that the measure proposed by the hon. member for Bridgenorth was intended to be a permanent one; whereas, the measure now proposed by ministers arose out of a case of necessity, and was only intended as a temporary expedient.Mr. Peel
 was about to put the question, but not observing that any member seconded it,The Speaker
 put the question.The Speaker
 having observed, that he had not heard the motion seconded,The Speaker
 said, that the whole transaction had originated in a misapprehension; for it was impossible any man could believe that an individual of the high character which the right hon. gentleman held in the country, could be guilty of such conduct. But he must express his regret, that the government had felt it their duty, at this particular time, to agitate a question of so great delicacy that nothing but the most urgent necessity could justify them in bringing forward. He lamented the determination of government to bring forward the question tomorrow evening.Sir E. Knatchbull
 defended the conduct of the majority who voted with ministers in favour of the proposed measures. The first measure seemed to have little opposition, but he thought the second, to which so many objections were made, not less necessary. Ministers, he contended, ought to have the discretionary power of opening the ports, in case of necessity. It was said, that if corn should rise to a famine price, ministers might do so on their own responsibility, and afterwards come to parliament for an indemnity; but such a course would have this disadvantage,—and a disadvantage, be it remembered, which would fall with most severity upon the agriculturists,—that ministers, in that case, must throw open the ports without any duty whatever, for they had no power to impose a tax without the sanction of parliament. In the measure proposed, provision would be made for letting in corn, upon the payment of duties to be regulated by the degree of necessity for opening at all.Sir R. Wilson
841 said, that he had, at one time, in common with the President of the Board of Trade, and others, considered the present session an unfit time for the discussion of the great question connected with the importation of foreign grain. But, after what had been already said and done with regard to the question, and when the House was actually, after
841Lord Althorp
911 concurred in all that had been so well said by his hon. friend; but he regretted that the subject was mentioned during the accidental absence of any of his majesty's ministers, and the more so, as he had reason to believe that they agreed with the views of his hon. friend. He knew one of those power-loom manufactories at Manchester, which gave employment to 150 men—although it was prohibited from exportation. But the result of this prohibition was, that if the machinery was not smuggled out of the kingdom, the artizans were; and he had heard there were now agents from
911Mr. Grenfell
918 assured the House, that he retained the entire opposition which he had, on a former evening, stated to the measure. He would not, however, object to the Speaker's leaving the chair, because he was desirous of hearing, from the mouths of ministers,
918Sir T. Lethbridge
"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is expedient to empower his majesty, by any order or orders of his majesty in council, to permit, under certain regulations, and for a time to be limited, the entry, for home consumption, of an additional quantity of foreign corn, meal, or flour, subject to the duties which may be imposed by any act to be passed in this session of parliament."932931s.s.930929928927926925924923922921920919 rose and said.— Although, Sir, it would have been very unusual to offer any opposition to your taking the chair for the purpose of resuming the consideration of a subject in committee, in the same form to which the House had already consented, yet I feel bound to offer my thanks for the courtesy of the hon. baronet and those who act with him, in allowing us at once to enter into an examination of the question, in a manner more convenient and satisfactory than we otherwise could have done, had they persisted in the opposition which they threatened. Before, however, I proceed to an explanation of that resolution which I am about to propose, I will take leave, with the permission of the House, to clear away some general objections to which the whole of the measures have been subjected—objections which, although they might not, if left unanswered, prejudice the principle of these measures, yet might, nevertheless, excite some prejudice against them, by throwing blame on those whose duty it was to propose them. I am further anxious to say a few words on that subject, because it is my earnest desire to free my right hon. colleagues and myself from any thing like a breach of faith, such as has been more than once attempted to be cast upon us, in the course of these proceedings. Most undoubtedly, I did, on the first day of the present session, make a declaration, which I am equally ready to admit I have renewed since, that I was of opinion the present was not a convenient season to enter into a consideration of the Corn-trade, with a view of making any alteration in the laws which affected it. That opinion I have proclaimed more than once. Upon that opinion I have, throughout the whole course of this session, acted; and I now declare, without hesitation, that it still remains unchanged. And still more, that if any one will consider these resolutions with a fair and unprejudiced judgment, they will find that they are characterised by a strict conformity with such an opinion, and art solely intended to enable his majesty's ministers and this House, without incon-
"That it is the opinion of this Committee, that it is expedient to empower his majesty, by any order or orders of his majesty in council, to permit, under certain regulations, and for a time to be limited, the entry, for home consumption, of an additional quantity of foreign corn, meal, or flour, subject to the duties which may be imposed by any act to be passed in this session of parliament."932931s.s.930929928927926925924923922921920919Mr. Secretary Canning
933l.l. as an humble representative of the landed interest, felt that he had little pretensions to claim the indulgence of the committee; and yet he did trust that, for the little he had to say on this occasion, he should be heard with some degree of attention. Upon a question of this kind, he thought the House would care but little whether the individual who addressed them was possessed of his 2,000933l.l.Mr. Carus Wilson,
s.936s.,s.s.s.935s.s.s.934 said, he rose under great difficulties, to speak upon this question, after the right hon. Secretary, who had addressed himself to it in his usual agreeable and fascinating manner.
s.936s.,s.s.s.935s.s.s.934Sir Thomas Lethbridge
938937 said, he was certainly one of those who had been most opposed to the resolution in question, in its first stage; for he did not believe the distresses of the districts in which the greatest suffering existed to have arisen either from the high price of corn or the scarcity
938937Mr. Portman
939 conceived, that the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs had argued as if the country were either in a state of actual famine, or approaching to such a state. This was made the ground of justification of the measures now proposed. But it was a singular piece of inconsistency on the part of his majesty's ministers, that whereas, on the 18th of April last only, they had declared that the country was not in a state to permit of the effecting any alteration in the Corn-laws, they now came down with propositions directly affecting the principle and altering the operation of those laws. They could not say they were taken by surprise; for the only difference between that period and the present was, that then the same distresses existed, but now they had broken out into acts of violence and outrage. If they were taken by surprise, the fact spoke but little for their foresight. If they were not, their present proceeding was one of extraordinary inconsistency with their recent declaration. For his own part, he had no objection to take to himself his full share of that responsibility which the hon. member for Dorsetshire had said he threw from him. The country, in his opinion, called on the landed interest to assume that responsibility, and he should oppose the resolution of one of his majesty's ministers, the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade, although one of the committee who prepared the bill, the principle of which was so directly affected, had ever since been, by his votes in that House, actually trenching upon it. —"Last year," said the right hon. gentleman, "when permission was given to take out foreign bonded corn at a certain duty, that permission had not been attended
939Mr. H. Sumner
941940 said:—Sir, since I have had the honour of a seat in parliament, I do not remember to have heard such unfounded charges of inconsistency as those which have just been advanced against his majesty's government. I am
941940Mr. Secretary Peel
—I did not vote for it.Mr. Sumner.
949948947s.s.,s.s.s.s.;s.s.;s.d.;s.d.s.s.;s.s.s.s.d.;d.d.,s.d.s.d.;d.d.d.946945944s.s.s.s.s.s.s.943942—But did my hon. friend oppose it? Was he not prepared to admit foreign wheat, under such circumstances, into the market? I do appeal to the landed interest, to those members of it who are now present in the committee, and to that fairness and manliness which I know them to possess; and I call upon them, if they wish to prohibit the admission of foreign corn generally, with a view to prevent competition, and have yet been willing, under some circumstances, to let it come in; if they see no inconsistency in this, I say, do let them feel rightly for those who propose to parliament a measure which may have the effect of alleviating the pressure which weighs so heavily on the manufacturing community. Sir, I can have no prepossessions against either the manufacturing or the agricul-
949948947s.s.,s.s.s.s.;s.s.;s.d.;s.d.s.s.;s.s.s.s.d.;d.d.,s.d.s.d.;d.d.d.946945944s.s.s.s.s.s.s.943942Mr. Peel.
 said, he must oppose the motion, because he considered it nothing less than an indirect and unfair tampering with the Corn-laws, and that it would, if carried into effect, place all the farms in the country at the mercy and disposal of his majesty's ministers. Was it pretended that it was absolutely necessary to dissolve parliament before the ensuing harvest? And, if not, surely there was sufficient time to enter minutely into the whole question, and set it at rest.Lord Althorp
950 said, he was anxious to see the Corn-laws repealed; but he took a different view of the present measure from his majesty's ministers, though he should vote with them upon it. The rise in the price of corn, which the right hon. Secretary had brought forward in proof of a deficiency, might be accounted for in a different way. During the time that our bankers and merchants were failing, there had been a considerable fall in the price of agricultural produce; but the panic having now, in a great measure, subsided, and confidence been partially restored, it was but natural to suppose that it would again rise. With regard to the fall in the price of cotton, and various other articles, quoted by the right hon. gentleman, it was well known, that vast speculations had taken place in all of them, and produced convulsions from which they had not yet recovered. There was, therefore, no just ground for the inference drawn from the rise in the one, and the fall in the other, that there was a deficiency of corn in the country. The measure which he would have preferred, and which government ought to have pursued, was a complete and final revision of
950Colonel Davies
 said, that though he had lost none of his repugnance to the measure now proposed, yet he should not make any very determined opposition to it. A right hon. gentleman had compared the prices of corn and cotton, but he did not think that a fair mode of stating the question. There was no similarity between them, and there was no ground of comparison. The right hon. gentleman had contrasted the fluctuations in the prices of wheat, as compared with other articles, in rather an unfair manner. He would contrast it in a way more likely to lead to a correct conclusion: he would compare the ten years preceding the year 1792 with the ten years preceding the year 1826, to show that wheat had not kept pace in its rise with other articles. The increase of price in the latter ten years over the former was as follows, in the undermentioned articles:—wine, 190 per cent; shoes, 200; hats, 200; bricks and tiles, 100; coals, 75; glass bottles, 72; butter, 25; labour (annual) 60; labour (daily) 33; wheat only 25 per cent; therefore the increase in favour of wheat was not as great as had been represented.Mr. Benett
 said, he was glad that the House had agreed to give out to the country the corn in bond, as he conceived that it would prove a most seasonable relief to the unfortunate persons who were unhappily suffering from want of employment. He gave his most cordial consent to this motion, feeling, that if it should be found necessary to act upon it, a great and seasonable relief would be afforded to the country.Sir W. W. Wynn
952951 said, that it was not his intention to occupy much of the time of the House, and he should not have risen at all, had it not been that frequent allusions had been made to the measure which he had brought forward, and so many charges thrown out against him for bringing it forward. Ministers had thrown in his teeth, that he had adopted a bad course, by agitating the question, after they had decided against any alteration of the law during the present session; but
952951Mr. Whitmore
 assured the hon. member, that he had much mistaken him if he supposed that he meant to impute blame to him for the motion he had made. He had certainly spoken of the inconvenience to which it had put them, but he had never thought of denying the perfect right of the hon. gentleman to originate such a motion.Mr. Secretary Canning
954s.s.953 said, he had no disposition to enter at any length upon the question before the House. Whatever vote he might ultimately give, he should make no opposition to the measure in its present stage. What he had risen principally to notice, was the speech of the hon. member for Denbighshire. The alteration which had taken place since Tuesday last, might convince him that the power of the landed interest was neither unseen, nor unfelt. He had no wish that it should be either unseen or unfelt. If in any observations which he had made respecting country gentlemen and landed proprietors, to which body he had the honour to belong, he had given them cause to feel aggrieved, he could safely say, that those observations were made with the view of attracting their attention to the subject. If they would do so, he felt persuaded that they would soon arrive at the same conclusion to which he had come; namely, that their own interests, and the interests of the country would be best promoted, by applying the same principles to corn, which
954s.s.953Lord Milton
956955s.s. admitted, that the manner in which the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had treated the subject that evening did him great credit; but great credit was also due to those who compelled them to adopt this course. Although premature discussion had been censured on a former night, it had had the beneficial effect of occasioning the present modification of the original plan; which modification, he candidly confessed, seemed far less objectionable. What was now proposed was not a settlement of the question of the Corn-laws by a side wind; it had nothing to do with the duty or price; but it gave ministers a power to do a certain definite act, in the contemplation of a state of affairs, which probably might exist during the recess of parliament, instead of requiring them afterwards to call upon both Houses to grant them indemnity for a course which they had been imperatively called upon to pursue. His view of the condition of the country was at variance with that of the right hon. gentleman; but, Heaven forbid that he should set up his notion, formed, perhaps, without adequate means of knowledge, against the deliberate opinion of ministers, when the comfort, happiness, and tranquillity of the whole population was concerned. The pride of opinion should never carry him so far as to risk such sacred interests, even though he felt satisfied that he derived it from the best sources of information. One circumstance he could not understand. Corn at this moment was 7956955s.s.Mr. Calcraft
 observed, that the sting appeared now to have been taken out of the scorpion's tail; and, although he did not think the measure in its present shape calculated to give much relief, yet he thought it would be cruel to withhold the power to do good which it did convey. He was surprised that no reference had been made to Ireland, which, from its soil and climate, was fully capable of supplying England with corn. There was only one thing wanting in Ireland to make such a plan eligible, and that was habits of industry in the people.Colonel Trench
 said, that he had come down to the House to oppose the measure of ministers, but that the alteration made in it was so great, that he could no longer oppose it.Mr. T. Wilson
 said, there was a strong probability that the individual whom he was proud to call his friend, had been induced to retain his seat, from having heard that a petition was to be presented against him. He was prevented from retiring, lest it should appear that he had yielded to the menace held out against him. His high integrity had never been impeached; and, considering the manner in which this petition had been reluctantly brought forward by the learned gentleman, he, speaking as the friend of the learned lord, felt that no impediment was raised in the way of his retirement by this petition. No part of it cast the slightest suspicion on the purity of his judicial conduct. He might retire without the shadow of an imputation on any portion of his long public life.Mr. Secretary Peel
915 rose to present a Petition from Bury, in Lan-
915Lord Stanley
 expressed his opinion, that the authority of the right hon. gentleman was more likely to be correct than that on which he had relied. At the same time he must say, that he had the most entire conviction that the authority, from which he had received his information was convinced of its truth.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, that one of the arguments in favour of this measure was, the moral effect to be produced in consequence of letting loose the quantity of corn now locked up within the very sight of the distressed people. But to his moral sense, it seemed that gentlemen opposite wished to allow the people to suppose they could derive benefit from the violation of the laws. However, be the duty what it might, the effect of this measure would be, at the most, to reduce the bread a penny a loaf. If he could believe that the proposed measure would tend to produce any substantial benefit to the distressed manufacturers, he would give it his support. But, as he had said on a former evening, if this measure should pass now, it would settle the corn question for ever; but he lamented that, for the sake of reducing the price of bread one half-penny, or one penny, this indirect mode should be resorted to of altering the Corn-laws. He was sorry that this course had been resorted to at all, but particularly by ministers, in whom he was move disposed to repose confidence, than in any administration of which he had a recollection.Sir J. Sebright
 presented a petition from certain persons engaged in the Corn-trade at Boston, against the bill now before the House. They stated, that the effect of the present measure would be, to put money into the pockets of the holders of foreign corn. There was another part of the petition which was very important. It proceeded from some of the most considerable corn merchants of Boston, who stated, that on the faith of the decisions of that House, and the statements of the right hon. gentleman opposite, they had embarked a considerable portion of their capital in corn; and the consequence of the intended measure would be, that they must suffer considerably.Mr. Heathcote
914 said, that as the learned gentleman had distinctly declared that he had no intention of bringing forward any motion on this petition, it was scarcely necessary for him to make any observations upon it. But he could not help calling the attention of the House to the situation in which the learned lord was placed. The petition related purely to a question of opinion. Was an individual, because he had attained a particular age, to be held to be so utterly disqualified as to be incompetent to the discharge of his duty for the future? Who had pretended to fix the day beyond which a judge was no longer deemed worthy of his seat? It was well known, that there were, and had been, many judges who had performed their duty to the entire satisfaction of the public, at an age equally advanced with that of the chief justice of the Common Pleas of Ireland. The learned lord's health was as good as at any period of his life, and he (Mr. G.) had observed nothing in his public or private intercourse with him, that could justify the allegation that he was unfit for his office. The right hon. gentleman, with reference to that part of the petition in which the petitioner appealed to the other judges of the Court of Common Pleas for evidence of the incompetency of the chief justice, stated, that he was decidedly of opinion, they would declare him to be perfectly competent. A case had occurred in that Court, only the term before he quitted Ireland, which removed all doubt as to the ability of the learned lord. An argument of great difficulty was heard before the judges in banco. The chief justice differed from all his learned brethren on an important point of law. The case was afterwards argued before the twelve judges, and they decided, in accordance with the opinion of the learned lord, and against that of the three other judges of the Common Pleas. He did not deny that it might be proper to lay down a general rule, that judges should not sit after they had attained a certain age; but, it would be manifestly unfair to make the learned lord suffer by its operation, when it was not intended to be applied to others.914Mr. Goulburn
 admitted, that that part of the allegations of the petition against the learned lord was undoubtedly true, in which it was stated that he was eighty-five years of age, and he had ascertained, having taken pains to make the inquiry, that there was no judge so old either in Ireland, or in this country. He agreed, too, that the learned lord would have consulted his ease, his dignity, the wishes of his best friends, and the interests of the administration of justice, if he had retired from the bench some time since. But, whenever he should retire from the court over which he had so long presided, and in which he had displayed such unrivalled courtesy and kindness to the whole bar, he would leave behind him a remembrance of his admirable temper and unequalled suavity, which would long continue, after the infirmities of his declining age would be forgotten. Not for worlds would he have brought forward this subject himself; but, as it had been introduced, he was glad that an opportunity had been given to him of discharging a most painful duty.Mr. North
910l.,909 presented two petitions, on a subject which he conceived to be of the highest importance, one from the Machine-makers of Manchester, and another from their workmen, in the same place; stating, that they had received large orders for machinery from abroad, and that they
910l.,909Mr. Hume
 said, that the object of the proposed measure was, not to reduce the price of corn, but to prevent its, rising to a prejudicial degree. The measure would not benefit the foreign corn dealer; for the greater portion of the bonded corn had been imported on British account. And one of the beneficial advantages flowing from the measure would be, to afford an opportunity to have the warehouses replenished when the present quantity should be removed; so that hereafter we might not be compelled to depend for our supply upon foreigners, instead of the stock in our own granaries.Mr. T. Wilson
916d.d.s.s.d.s.s. quite concurred in opinion with the noble lord. The only object of allowing the corn to come out of bond without duty would be, to relieve the sellers of corn from the tax, and enable them to put the difference in their pockets. He availed himself of that opportunity to allude to a circumstance which had taken place on the previous evening, relative to the corn-market at Liverpool. He did so with perfect good humour; but he could not refrain from advising the hon. baronet, who had addressed him on that occasion, to be a little more on his guard as to the information he received. The hon. baronet had stated, that he had his information on the best authority, and that he placed entire reliance upon it. Now, he begged attention to these circumstances. At Liverpool there were two corn-markets weekly, one on Tuesday, and the other on Saturday. He had received a letter on Tuesday, the 25th of April, prior to that Saturday on which the hon. baronet had stated, that extraordinary activity had been manifested in the sale of bonded corn. The letter was to the following effect:—"We take the liberty to suggest, that great advantage might be made by the judicious purchase by government of bonded corn, to be re-sold to the Committees in aid of the distressed mechanics." This letter was signed, "Booth and Walmsley," The wheat in bond at that time was selling at from 4916d.d.s.s.d.s.s.Mr. Huskisson
913912 said, he held in his hand a petition from Mr. O'Connell, the Irish barrister, praying for the interference of the House, in order to remove lord Norbury from the Chief Justice ship of the Common Pleas of Ireland. He felt that the subject was one of a peculiarly delicate nature; but, as he perceived nothing objectionable in the language of the petition, and as it had been forwarded to him for presentation, he would discharge his duty, putting the House as shortly as possible in possession of the substance of the allegations relative to the learned lord. The Petitioner expressed very clearly the disinclination he felt to interfere with the subject, if he had seen a disposition in any other quarter to have saved him the painful duty of standing forward on this occasion. He had hoped that the lapse of time might have rendered it unnecessary for him to lay his complaints before the House; but having been disappointed in these expectations, he could no longer refrain from calling the notice of parliament to a subject so deeply affecting the administration of justice in Ireland. He begged it to be understood that he preferred no imputation on the honour or integrity of the learned lord. He alleged simply, that he was incapacited from the adequate performance of his judicial duties, by the infirmity and debility consequent upon old age. In particular the learned lord was so subject to lethargic stupor, that he would frequently fall fast asleep in the middle of the trial at which he was presiding. In one instance it occurred that on a trial for murder, which took place in Ireland before the chief justice of the Common Pleas, his lordship fell asleep, and so remained during the greater part of the evidence. The consequence was, that
913912Mr. Scarlett
917 said, it appeared to him, that the best course would be, for
917Sir J. Wrottesley
965 said, that as he had not seen the petition before it was presented, and as he had not been informed of the nature of the charges it contained, he was to a certain degree unprepared to answer the allegations of it. He was not, however, surprised to hear that the petitioner impugned the motives, and protested against the report, of the commissioners; for the petitioner could not help being aware, that that report must be unfavourable to himself. Had he been previously interrogated by any hon. member on the subject, he would have stated to the House then, what he felt it to be his duty to state now, that a voluminous report had been received by the colonial department from the commissioners, and was ready to be laid, at any moment, upon the table of the House. The House, if it would take the trouble of reading the evidence annexed to that report, would be qualified to decide, whether it ought to concur in the opinion of the commissioners, that the charges which the petitioner had preferred against lord Charles Somerset were grossly exaggerated, and were not such as required the interference of that House. Even from the statement of the petitioner himself, it was evident that he inculpated lord Charles Somerset for what
965Mr. Wilmot Horton
 wished to know why this report had been kept back by the government to such a late period or the session, that it would be impossible to get it printed before the close of it.Colonel Davies
 said, he had not presented it, because he thought that the House would not enter into a discussion of it until the return of lord C. Somerset. If any gentleman had asked him a question on the subject, he should have given him, without any reserve, the same information which he had that evening afforded to the House.Mr. Wilmot Horton
968 recollected, that on the occasion when this subject was before the House last session, it was said, that
968Mr. Fyshe Palmer
969 said, that as the petitioner alluded to a pledge given by a relation of lord C. Somerset in the last session, that he would promptly return to face his accusers in parliament on receiving leave of absence from the government at home, and as the hon. members for Montrose and Reading had both said, that the fact of his noble relative's not being now in England was proof that he wished to evade the fulfilment of that pledge, he rose for the purpose of contradicting the assertion. He rose for the purpose of declaring most unequivocally, that his noble relative had been most anxious to leave the Cape of Good Hope, on first hearing of the charges made against him; but that he had been ordered by the government at home—and he spoke in the presence of those who could confirm his assertion—not to leave it, until the arrival of the lieutenant-governor. The lieutenant-governor did not arrive till the 9th of February last, and his noble relative had sailed from the Cape of Good Hope as soon afterwards as he possibly could. No one could feel greater regret than his noble relative did, in not having been able to face his accusers in the present session. He still was in hopes that his noble relative would arrive before parliament separated, as letters had arrived in England, stating that he had left St. Helena. Indeed, had it not been for the continual succession of north winds for some time past, it was
969Lord E. Somerset
 said, that every man must admire the feeling with which the noble lord had defended the conduct and character of his noble relation. Upon that conduct and upon that character he should not make any remark at present, as it would not be proper for him to venture any opinion upon charges of which he knew almost nothing. He would, however, give his opinion upon the propriety of taking the evidence of lieutenant-colonel Bird, before he set sail again for the Cape of Good Hope. That was a point of so much importance, that he trusted ministers would, for their own sake, for the sake of the noble lord now under accusation, and still more for the sake of the petitioner, not deprive him of the means of securing that evidence which he described as most important to the prosecution of his claim for redress.Sir F. Burdett
 said, he did not know how colonel Bird was in any respect connected with the charges brought against lord Charles Somerset. Those charges were of a nature of which colonel Bird could know nothing, as would be seen, whenever the report appendix was printed. If any subject could be pointed out on which colonel Bird could afford to the House any information which the petitioner might deem favourable to his cause, he would have no objection to grant his request; but at present he did not know how any gentleman could put a question to colonel Bird, if he was at the bar, relative to the complaints made by the petitioner. Surely the petitioner must state something specific before his prayer could be acceded to.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, the petitioner stated that he conceived colonel Bird to be a material witness on his side.Sir F. Burdett
960 presented a petition signed by the Chairman and four members who constituted a committee of the Norfolk Agricultural Society, stating that the measure now before the House relating to foreign corn, would, if it should become the law of the land, virtually repeal the Corn-laws—that the petitioners, confiding in the assurances of his majesty's ministers, and the resolutions of majorities of both Houses of parliament, that no alteration should be made in the Corn-laws during the present session, were quite taken by surprise, and deprived of all opportunity of opposing, as effectually as they otherwise might have done, what they could not but consider as an impending evil,—that if the poor manufacturers stood in need of relief, it ought to be afforded to them in the same manner as it was afforded to the other necessitous classes of the community,—that the petitioners were willing to contribute their proportion towards such relief, but
960Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, it was easy for gentlemen to talk of detaining colonel Bird, to examine him upon these points; but the fact was, that government had no power to detain him. He was going on his own private business to the Cape of Good Hope, and not on that of the government. What right, therefore, could government have to say that he should not quit the country?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.,s. said, he would oppose the bringing up of the report. He would not object to that part of the measure which had reference to the letting out of the bonded corn, because it manifested the sympathy and concern of the House, and its anxiety to do every thing for the relief of the distress which now unhappily prevailed. But he must give his opposition to that part which related to the duty. It did not matter whether the duty was 12s.,s.Mr. Heatkcote
973972 rejoiced that he had taken the course which he had done on the last night that this subject was under discussion. He was convinced that, in not dividing the House, he and his friends had done right, considering that the proposition then made was a new proposition, and therefore ought to be fairly considered. Many of the objections which he entertained to the original proposition, he did not entertain at present; for the words price and duty were left out of the resolution. As ministers had, on their own
973972Mr. Calcraft
 wished that the report might be brought up, and the bill introduced, that the House might be in possession of something on which to found a discussion. When it was brought in he would take an opportunity of expressing his opinions upon the subject.Mr. Bankes
979s.s.978 not having been in the House on a former night, when the subject was agitated, took that opportunity of expressing his intention to give to the measure proposed by his majesty's ministers his most hearty concurrence and support. He was also anxious to express his regret at seeing gentlemen con-
979s.s.978Mr. Stanley,
s.,d.s.980 bore testimony to the merits of the speech delivered by the hon. member; but, whatever support he might give to the measure, it was on an understanding that it had no reference to any permanent or material alteration of the Corn-laws; being convinced that any such alteration would not tend to lessen but to aggravate the distresses of the country. He thought the proposition now before the House more objectionable than the original measure proposed by government. He conceived that the preferable plan would be, to grant to government the discretionary power of opening the ports upon an Order of Council, when the average price of corn had amounted to a certain specified rate. The rate of that import price might be settled when the bill was in the committee. He thought that a certain price
s.,d.s.980Colonel Wood
s.,s.s.s. protested, that nothing on a former evening could have been further from his intention, than to fix either the amount of protecting duty or the maximum of price at which foreign corn should be imported. This he would say, that the prices fixed by the existing law, 80s.,s.s.s.Mr. Secretary Peel
s.s.,s.s.s.s.974s. was desirous of taking this opportunity of expressing his disapproval of the measure. It divided itself into two parts; the one which related to the letting out the bonded corn, and the other to the discretionary power of permitting the importation of 500,000 quarters. As to the first of these propositions, it was considered as a relief to the manufacturers; but, so far from its being so, it was, in his opinion, a perfect insult to them. It had been calculated that the whole of the corn thus to be admitted, would not suffice for more than the consumption of four or five days. But, what he objected to mostly was, not so much the extent of relief which would be afforded by this measure, as that it was offering corn to the manufacturers which they could not buy. It was therefore, that he considered this measure, instead of being one of relief to the manufacturers, as a direct insult to them. The value of corn was not determined solely by its price. If a man could earn 20s.s.,s.s.s.s.974s.Lord Belgrave
s.s.981 declared, that both measures had his most cordial, hearty, and warm support. Deriving his income from land entirely, he made no pretensions to
s.s.981Mr. F. Lewis
s.?s.s.s.,s.s.989s.,988987s.s.,s.s.s.,s.,986985984 said, that if he could think with his hon. friend who had just sat down, that the proposed measure would produce any of the benefits which his hon. friend contemplated, he would support it. But he was of a different opinion, and was therefore obliged to take a different course. He could not consent to give to his majesty's ministers a power which would have the effect of shifting and rendering uncertain the price of corn all over the country. Distress might arise in one place this day, and in another on the next; and the object of this proposition was, to enable government, at its pleasure, to shift the price of corn, to meet those partial circumstances. This, he contended, was not only the most mischievous and fallacious proceeding that could be adopted, but he would say, that, if there were any measure more likely than another to create distress in the country, this shifting and changing the price of corn—this constant interference with the Corn-laws—was that measure. From the year 1815, when he first heard these questions discussed, he felt convinced, that the extent of protection was fixed at far too high a rate, and that the mode of applying the principle was open to every possible objection. That opinion he continued to hold; and therefore, in the few observations he was about to make, gentlemen would observe, that his opposition did not arise from any attachment which
s.?s.s.s.,s.s.989s.,988987s.s.,s.s.s.,s.,986985984Mr. Baring
 supported the measure. He said, he did not wish to divide the two interests of the agriculturist and the manufacturer. On the contrary, he would rather unite and bind them together. After all that had been said on the question, this proposition was quite clear—that if the manufacturers were in a state of distress they must receive relief from some quarter. The present measure was intended to afford that relief, and he thought that ministers deserved great credit for bringing it forward.Mr. C. Wilson
990 said, he would not follow the hon. member for Taunton through the great question of the Corn-laws, but would repeat, in reference to it, that the sooner it was settled, the sooner one of the greatest evils of the country would be removed. He agreed that the plan proposed; namely, the delegating to government, without check as to control, and without limit as to duty, the power of admitting 500,000 quarters of wheat, under the peculiar circumstances of the present moment, and just preceding an expected dissolution, was likely to produce a serious effect on the agricultural interest. He did not suppose that ministers would abuse the power to be intrusted
990Mr. Whitmore
1002s.,s.1001s.1000s.,s.,s.s.,s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.999 said, he assured the hon. member for Kent, and the other honourable members who had spoken on this subject, that he had listened with the greatest attention to their exposition on this subject, and gave them full credit for the most sincere desire to discharge their duties fairly and conscientiously. But he must say, at the same time, that even those who had entered into the greatest length of discussion on this subject, had kept far wide of the practical question. That question was this: here was a law on the Statute-book for regulating the trade in corn, enacted under very peculiar circumstances, and such as, perhaps, justified the act; but a law of which the extreme provisions had never been suffered to come into operation. He was very far from giving any opinion on the question, whether that law could be brought at all into full operation; but this he broadly stated, because it was notoriously the fact, that the country was at present in a situation exactly the reverse of that in which it was placed at the time when that law was passed. And the fact was, that no man, however attached to the corn restrictions, had ventured to say, that the extreme provisions of that law could be brought into operation in the existing circumstances of the country, without producing a high degree of apprehension and alarm. No man had ventured to advance such a proposition. Why, then, if this were granted him—if he had this admission that this law, however good in itself, however applicable to certain circumstances, could not be applied in the present state of things, without producing the greatest alarm and apprehension—he then had every thing that was necessary to support his view of the subject; and it was clearly the duly of government to oppose the prejudices of those who objected to the proposed measure, although it was not necessary to combat their arguments, for no arguments had been adduced. There were two courses which might be taken—either to discuss and adopt a permanent measure, as had been recommended by the hon. member for Taunton and others, or to make some temporary alteration in the Corn-laws, suitable to the crisis, and the peculiar circumstances of the country at
1002s.,s.1001s.1000s.,s.,s.s.,s.s.,s.s.s.,s.s.999Mr. Secretary Canning
s. in explanation, denied having agreed to make 65s.Colonel Wood,
1004 observed, that he thought it would be right to set the present question at rest by a permanent decree as to what should be the law. It became the House to act with promptitude and decision, and finally to determine the matter. He believed, that as the question had now been in some degree mooted, and as it was declared that it should be decided next year, the delay would only serve to fortify the prejudices, if he might call them such, of the people, and to prevent that impartial discussion which every one ought to be anxious to obtain. He thought the experiment had better be made immediately. The plan of opening the ports, with a protecting duty, was itself but an experiment, and might ultimately come round to the necessity of doing that which he urged them to do now. Whenever the question was decided, there must be more or less of the nature of experiment in the course pursued. Under all the circumstances, he thought the House had better go into the committee at once. Some other members concurred with him in that opinion, and even the hon. member for Bramber objected to the state in which the question was now left. In his opinion, ministers put off the decision of the question without any reason, beyond the apprehension of encountering their friends in parliament. He concluded by
1004Mr. Baring
 rose to remind the House, that they were now going to vote upon a proposition which, if affirmed, would pledge them to a complete revision of the Corn-laws. He had already stated his reasons for thinking this an inauspicious moment for such a measure; and, although regarded as the enemy of the landowners, he really was acting as their best friend in the course he now took.Mr. Secretary Canning
971 declared his unwillingness to reject a petition of this nature, on the
971Mr. Canning
1003 also explained, and; some other members did the same, but
1003Mr. H. Sumner
977 said, that he was of the same opinion that he at first expressed, that there were no sufficient grounds for
977Mr. H. Sumner
 said, it would be unjust to the colony, to lord C. Somerset, and to the petitioner, if colonel Bird were not examined as to his knowledge of the facts of this case.Mr. Brougham
961 thought, it would appear
961Mr. Benett
d.,992d.d.s.991 said, he fully agreed with the hon. member who just sat down, that nothing could be more fatal, nothing more to be deprecated, than any measure which could be injurious to the great body of the agricultural population, or excite alarm among them. He was surprised, however, to hear this from an hon. gentleman, whose whole conduct, with respect to the Corn-laws, was calculated to excite the alarm he so much deprecated. What had been his conduct on that question? Did he not, late in the session, bring on this most important and delicate subject He gave notice of his motion early enough to have it fully discussed, but put it off, from time to time, until it was too late to hope for anything like a full inquiry. Thus, though the hon. member was fully aware of the intentions of ministers, and of the general opinion of the House; though warned of the inconveniences of premature discussion; he persevered in his motion. Not
d.,992d.d.s.991Mr. Irving
s., said, he thought the admission of bonded corn into the market would produce great benefit to the distressed^ He should support the bringing up of the report; without, however, pledging himself to any subsequent support of the bill. If the House were to assent to the present measure, and allow corn to be imported at 12s.,Mr. Jones
983 was anxious to explain to the House the reasons which induced him to vote with his majesty's ministers upon the present occasion. He felt that, if ministers had neglected to provide some such measure as the present, they would have incurred a heavy and serious responsibility. He found upon inquiry, that corn had been progressively rising within a certain time. Assuming this to be the fact, he would ask the House, how it was possible that his majesty's ministers could think of allowing parliament to dissolve, without taking care to provide against the chance of a scarcity of corn before the next harvest, and whether gentlemen were prepared to view with indifference the consequence of such neglect? He felt that he was doing his duty in supporting this motion, without stopping to inquire whether the question ought to have been introduced at an earlier period, because he felt that, unless some such step was taken, a degree of distress might be brought about, that it was painful even to contemplate. An hon. member had stated, that there was no scarcity of corn in the country. If such were the case, he rejoiced at it; but who was to guarantee that there would not be a scarcity before the ensuing harvest? His majesty's ministers had, or ought to have, the best information upon this subject. If they had it not, they were guilty of the most culpable neglect. He hoped that they were possessed of it, and that it was of the most favourable nature; but if they had the slightest doubt upon their minds, they were
983Mr. J. Smith
967966 said, that at an early period of the session, he had inquired if any report had been received from the commis-
967966Mr. Hume
s. said, he was not opposed to a discretion, even of wide latitude, being placed in the hands of ministers, provided the maximum of duty was placed at a sufficiently high rate. He thought 20s.Mr. Leycester
 expressed his readiness to withdraw the petition, inasmuch as it did not contain any specific charges, and he had, in some degree, obtained his object.Mr. Beaumont
962 said, he rose to present a petition from Mr. Bishop Burnett, complaining of the conduct of lord Charles Somerset. He regretted that the petition had not fallen into the hands of some one more competent than himself for such an undertaking; but, as he was convinced of the justice of it, and as he had been promised able assistance whenever its merits should be examined into, he should not have felt himself justified if he had declined to present it. It was not either his own wish, or that of the petitioner, that this petition should afford an opportunity of throwing out or promulgating general invective against lord Charles Somerset. As lieutenant-colonel Bird, owing to his having been the secretary at the Cape, was well acquainted with the character and conduct of lord Charles Somerset, the petitioner desired that he should be examined at the bar of the House. The petitioner also complained, that the colonial secretary had refused to grant him permission to return to the Cape, for the purpose of enabling him to procure evidence, which would substantiate the charges he had to bring forward against the noble lord. The present charges were the same as those which the petitioner had brought before this House on the 16th of June last, and he himself had now felt it a matter of delicacy and difficulty, as to whether he should enter into a recapitulation of those charges or not: but whether he was acting right or wrong, he had resolved not to do so; which mode of proceeding would, he trusted, convince the House that his object was justice and not slander. He hoped the colonial secretary would not deny the desired permission to the petitioner, as the granting it would not imply any thing as to the legality or illegality of the original banishment from that colony of the petitioner for five years, to which he had been sentenced for a libel; which libel was nothing more than a memorial which he had presented to the governor of the colony, complaining of
962Colonel Beaumont
996995994s.s.s.d.s.s.993 assured the hon. member for member, that nothing could give him greater satisfaction, than to see the question of the Corn-laws in his hands, if the hon. gentleman happened next session, to have a seat in the House. No doubt he would bring forward a measure calculated to conciliate the various interests of the country, and to effect the great object in view. If it were his good fortune, to occupy in the next session the post he now held, it would be his duty to propose some measure connected with this great question; and, although he should be happy to profit by the hon. members suggestions, he must be excused if he did not implicitly follow his advice. The hon. member for Taunton was more or less in the habit of observing upon the absence of members of the cabinet from their places in parliament; but, if he had been more assiduous in his own attendance, he would not have been so much in arrear in his information of what had recently passed in that House, as by his speech he appeared to be. In the first place, the hon. member did not seem to be aware of what had fallen from the hon.
996995994s.s.s.d.s.s.993Mr. Huskisson
 who had been reading the petition, here interrupted the discussion. He said, that in all cases where a double construction could be put upon the wording of a petition, the House put upon it such construction as was most favourable to the petitioner. There were, however, some cases, in which only one construction could be put upon it, and that construction was fatal to the petition. He believed that there were in the present petition, words which rendered it imperative upon the House to reject it. [Here the Speaker read the second and third clauses of the petition, in which reference is made to declarations of lord E. Somerset and Mr. Wilmot Horton in the House of Commons.] He thought that such reference, according to the usual rules of the House, made it imperative on them not to receive the petition.The Speaker,
998997 said, he could not reconcile it to himself to give merely a silent vote on the present question. It was very unfair to rest the matter in issue on the eloquent appeal of the hon. member for Stockbridge,—an appeal directed much more to the feelings, than to the judgment of the House. When he was called upon to deliver his opinion upon a question of this kind, he could not suffer himself to be influenced by any partial feelings or considerations. In many of the observations that had been made by the right hon. President of the Board of Trade, he concurred; and more especially in the remark, that this was not a proper time for the consideration of the general question of the Corn-laws. But he was astonished that government had brought the subject under consideration at all at this time; because they must have been perfectly aware, that when the matter was
998997Sir E. Knatchbull
976975 said, that not having had an opportunity to deliver his sentiments upon this measure on Friday, he would, with the indulgence of the House, make a few observations, and he assured them he would redeem his promise; aware, as he was, that the subject had been much discussed, and sensible of his own inability to throw any new light upon the subject. He confessed he had come down to the House on Friday last in much embarrassment, feeling, with many other hon. members, that he would be called upon to give a vote, either against the intended proposition of his majesty's ministers (to support whom it was ever his desire), or against his own conviction; and which must have been the consequence had the first proposition been persevered in, which he could not otherwise contemplate than as an interference with the principle of the existing Corn-laws. But, happily, he was relieved from this dilemma, by a modification of the proposition, by which its sting was taken away, and it became, in his opinion, no longer objectionable. However, though modified as it now was, it could no longer be considered as any alteration of the present Corn-laws; yet, as it was so nearly allied to it, and as he had been taught to look for this revision and alteration, at no distant period, he would offer a few observations upon the subject. From an expectation, that had for some time existed, of a revision of the Corn-laws now in force, and from its intimate connection with the subject of free trade, which had been already adopted, to a considerable extent, by parliament, the question now before the House was of the greatest magnitude, and excited an unusual degree of atten-
976975Sir John Brydges
 said, he should vote for bringing up the report, but without pledging himself to support the measure in its further stages. He was of opinion that it would be highly injurious to impress upon the manufacturing poor the erroneous idea that their distresses had arisen from the high price of corn. He thought, however, that it would be of benefit to the agricultural interest, to revise the Corn-laws, and to allow the importation of corn under a protecting duty; the fixing of that rate of duty would always be a subject of difficulty. He conceived that there was no ground to apprehend any deficiency in the home supply of corn; and he therefore thought that the measure before the House ought not to have been brought forward at a period like the present.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, his opinion was, that the present measure was not that which was called for by the urgent necessity of the times. He hoped that ministers, before they carried it into effect, would consider whether there was not another, better adapted to attain the object they had in view. He would only throw out this hint at present, and he would rather they should not answer his question now.Lord Milton
 thought this as good a time as any for making an alteration, if it should be deemed necessary. He thought the present Corn-laws only fit for the fair-weather state of the country.Lord Milton
101010091008 said, that this question had been brought forward on a former occasion by the hon. member for Durham, and at that period Mr. Buckingham had given notice of an action against Mr. Adam, the governor-general, by whom Mr. Buckingham had been sent away. Unfortunately, the death of Mr. Adam had since taken place; a circumstance which he considered one of the greatest losses the service in India had ever sustained. At the same time, he must express his complete conviction, amounting in fact almost to a certainty, that had that action proceeded, the result would have been most triumphant to Mr. Adam. It appeared to him, that it was rather unusual to move for a committee on such a subject as the noble lord had expressed his intention of doing, unless some previous notice had been given. The ordinary course was to give notice to the House of such an intention; and of this course the noble lord himself must see the propriety. He remembered no instance of a select committee having been moved for without previous notice. The whole question appeared to him to hinge on this consideration: Is the press in India to be as free as it is in this country? On this point he was ready to meet the noble lord at any time, and contend for its impossibility. The noble lord had adverted to the passages published by Mr. Buckingham, and had said, that although they might not be tolerated at Vienna or Madrid, they would pass freely at Pan's or London. In
101010091008Mr. Wynn
 observed, that the licence of the Calcutta Journal had been withdrawn, and had never been granted to any other individual. The licence which had been granted to Dr. Mostyn, the individual referred to in the petition, and a friend of the petitioner, was a licence to print a paper to be entitled "The Scotchman in the East."Mr. Wynn
— What! encouraged by the government?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1047104610451044104310421041104010391038 declared, that, when he came down to the House that evening, he was totally in the dark as to the tendency of the hon. member's motion; the scope which he meant to take, or the extent of the facts which he meant to go upon. He always understood, that it was usual to give any hon. member whose conduct was attacked, at least a private notice of what he meant to do; but no such notice had he received. He hoped, therefore, that the House would extend their indulgence to him, while he entered into an explanation of what had been alleged against him. The hon. member, in bringing forward his motion, had art-
1047104610451044104310421041104010391038Sir H. Farquhar
 said, that the House, he was sure, would sympathize with the hon. baronet in what had fallen from him. He did not mean to say that the hon. gentleman ought not, from any personal feeling towards any hon. member, to come forward and discharge his duty; yet, if he understood the hon. gentleman correctly, he had imputed indirect criminality to the hon. baronet. That being the case, he could not help expressing his regret that the papers upon the table of that House respecting the Mauritius had not been printed, and in the hands of members previous to this discussion. From the letters alluded to by the hon. gentleman, it certainly did appear, that the late governor of the Mauritius was charged with having winked at the traffic in slaves. Such a charge appeared to him extraordinary, when he considered that that hon. baronet had taken measures the most likely to put an end to that traffic; and he trusted the House would suspend their judgment until they should be in possession of more information. He could not reconcile the inconsistency, that a governor, who had taken such measures, should be guilty of culpable indifference, amounting to the sanction of the Slave-trade in the island of which he was governor. The House must be aware that the period of time at which the acts imputed were done, made all the difference in this case; and in order to arrive at a just decision, the House must be in possession of more specific information than they had at present. Did the hon. gentleman mean to say that the Slave-trade in the Mauritius had gone on up to the present period?Mr. Wilmot Horton
1048 in continuation, denied that it had been carried on, to any extent, since 1811. But, at all events,
1048Mr. Wilmot Norton,
 replied, that the papers already laid before the House, established the fact of the existence of the Slave-trade up to 1818, and he would therefore submit to the House, whether is would not be a waste of time to enter upon such an extensive injury, when no inquiry was necessary. The point which it was desirable to inquire into was, whether the Slave-trade existed now, and to what extent.Mr. W. Horton
1050 said, that if the motion were intended to convey matter of complaint against any individual, he should object to it in the strongest manner. He should certainly object to the hon. member's calling for a vote of that description, founded upon the contents of papers which the majority of the House had not yet had the opportunity of perusing. He should also have objected, upon a statement so vague and general, to go into an examination pointed against individual character. But, upon the ground of its being a question of national honour, in which light he had understood the hon. member to present it, and in which he did not differ from him upon the alleged imputation, that the Slave-trade carried on in the Mauritius was connived at, if not openly sanctioned by the governor, he was willing to agree to the motion. This charge had, in fact, often been thrown in their teeth, whilst they were endeavouring to infuse into foreign powers some of that feeling with which the people of this country were inspired, with reference to this detestable traffic. He understood the hon. gentleman to disclaim any imputation upon government, in the statement he had made; but he had declared, that the facts of the case established an imputation upon the
1050Mr. Secretary Canning
1051 referred to the testimony of commodore Owen for the fact, that all along the West coast of Africa, vessels were employed in carrying on the Slave-trade. They usually went under the French flag, and carried their slaves
1051Sir R. Farquhar
 said, that much as he objected to the measure, his objection was still stronger to the introduction of the subject, at an hour which would preclude any discussion; he would therefore move as an amendment, "That the House do now adjourn."Mr. Sumner
1052 said, he would make an appeal to the House to go forward with the measure then before it. As the House had already sanctioned the principle of the first question, it would be desirable that the bill founded upon it should proceed; but as to expecting unanimity with respect to it, it would be quite unreasonable. He was anxious to take the present opportunity of asking the right hon. Secretary, whether the two bills now before the House included the whole of the measures intended by government for the relief of the distressed districts? It was well known that a subscription for the relief of the distressed manufacturers had been sanctioned by his majesty's ministers, thus obviously admitting that relief of a pecuniary nature was necessary. The question which he wished to ask them was, whether they were in-
1052Lord Milton
 said, that he could not better answer the question of the noble lord, than by informing him, that he had, within a few minutes, communicated with a gentleman, who had a notice of motion upon the subject for tomorrow, requesting him to postpone his motion for a few days; and when that motion was brought forward he would give the noble lord the answer he desired.Mr. Secretary Canning
 again pressed the motion of adjournment.Mr. Sumner
 said, that as it appeared to be the general wish of the House that the measure should proceed, and as he felt convinced that it was one which would be greatly for the advantage of the landed interest itself, he was determined to press the second reading that night. But with respect to the second bill (that for the importation of corn), as it was one which would be likely to lead to lengthened discussion, he would not bring it forward that night, but would defer it to afford a more convenient opportunity for going into that discussion.Mr. Canning
 said, that if he understood the right hon. gentleman to pledge himself not to bring forward the second bill that night, he would consent to the present, and he hoped his hon. friend would be induced not to press his amendment. He was the more inclined to throw out this suggestion, as he found that the opinions of the great majority seemed to be in favour of going on with the first question. He therefore thought it better to let it proceed, and wait for the discussion of the second measure.Sir E. Knatchbull
 concurred with the hon. member who had just sat down. It would, he thought, be advisable to allow the first bill to proceed, and he hoped the hon. member would not press his opposition.Sir J. Sebright
 said, he hoped his hon. friend would listen to the wish of the House regarding the present proposition, and would see that he could not serve the feeling, which all in that House were anxious to promote, by persisting in his motion.Sir T. Lethbridge
 observed, that all he could say to the hon. member for Somerset was, that those who thought the present measure was one of no importance to the landed interest might consent to it; but, for himself, he had always been of opinion, that the measure was not only unnecessary, but calculated to injure the interests of the landed proprietors. Having those sentiments, he must act for himself; and if he stood alone, he would take the sense of the House upon it.Mr. H. Sumner
 concurred with the hon. member who spoke last, in thinking the measure uncalled for. There was nothing in the state of the country since the 18th of April which could render it necessary. After the full discussion, and the solemn decision to which the House had then come, he thought no alteration ought to be made in the Corn-laws. He would therefore support the amendment.Mr. Tremayne
1007ll1006lll1005 rose, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a petition of considerable importance, affecting the government of India, and most seriously affecting the talents and fortune of the petitioner, Mr. Buckingham. The case had, on a former occasion, been brought before the House by his hon. friend, the member for Durham; and at that time, the answer given to it was, that it was then under the consideration of a court of law, and therefore it would be highly improper in that House to interfere. At the time when this answer was given, he himself considered it a very weak and unsatisfactory one; but since then, circumstances had occurred, which had totally done away with that objection, weak as it was. The ruin which the petitioner then apprehended, in consequence of the acts of which he complained, had since fallen upon him: but he would proceed, as briefly as he could, to detail the principal facts of the petitioner's very hard case. In the year 1814, Mr. Buckingham received a licence to proceed to Calcutta, to reside there. At that period, the marquis of Hastings, the governor-general, had abolished the censorship of the press, and had left the editors of newspapers free to act upon their own responsibility; at the same time prescribing certain rules to which they were to conform.
1007ll1006lll1005Lord John Russell
 declared his concurrence in the view taken by the right hon. Secretary upon this question. He thought that the charges of his hon. friend did reflect on the country, on the government, and on the island in general. After the declaration of his hon. friend, that he would produce proofs of the truth of the statement he had made, he thought they had no option, but must proceed at once to institute the inquiry. He thought that, independent of the private information possessed by the hon. gentlemen opposite, which the House could not know, enough might be seen on the face of the returns, and the papers they were in possession of, to justify the House in going into an inquiry. A trade had been carried on, of which there had been no example in any other colony belonging to the Crown. After this island had been eleven years in our possession, the disproportion of the sexes amongst the slaves was a sufficient ground of alarm, and justified inquiry. It was nearly in the proportion of two to one, compared with the number at the conquest. In 1822, the numbers were, forty-one thousand males, and twenty-two thousand females. Then there had been a great increase of production in that island; the number of slaves captured, and on which a bounty had been allowed, was ten times greater in that island than in all the West-India islands put together. He said this to justify his opinion, that the West-India colonies were, in this respect, pure in comparison with this island. In the former, it would appear that the Slave-trade had been satisfactorily extirpated. He would vote simply on the facts before the House, and on the credit of the evidence which his hon. friend had promised to produce.Mr. Brougham
 replied, that the Slave-trade was not put down, and he was prepared to show that it was not. He was surprised to see the slight notice taken by his hon. friend of the enormities he had brought under the notice of the House. Was it a waste of the time of the House to inquire whether these enormities existed? The Slave-trade was still carried on; and was it not the duty of the House to put a stop to it? He wished the House to see, by evidence, to what extent thes Slave-trade still existed, and he should persist in his motion.Mr. F. Buxton
1049 explained, that it was his intention to bring the whole subject before the committee. The Slave-trade had existed before 1810, and had been
1049Mr. F. Buxton
—I mean to say, that it had gone on, up to the year 1824.Mr. F. Buxton.
103710361035103410331032103110301029ll10281027‡Two of these are said to be returned servants from Scotland.†The greatest part of these Negroes were landed from an insurgent privateer. Vide Bounty Paper made up at the Treasury, 30th of March, 1822.**2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date
2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius
205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius8‡Cape of Good Hope
8‡Cape of Good Hope115†Bahama Islands
115†Bahama Islands82Total for all the British West-India Islands
82Total for all the British West-India IslandsVirgin Islands
Virgin Islands8Trinidad
8TrinidadTobago
TobagoSt. Vincent
St. Vincent7St. Lucia
7St. LuciaSt. Christopher
St. ChristopherNevis
NevisMontserrat
Montserrat40Jamaica
40Jamaica3Grenada
3Grenada24Dominica
24DominicaDemerara
DemeraraBermuda
BermudaBerbice
BerbiceBarbadoes
BarbadoesAntigua
AntiguaA List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.
A List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.
2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date
2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius
205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius8‡Cape of Good Hope
8‡Cape of Good Hope115†Bahama Islands
115†Bahama Islands82Total for all the British West-India Islands
82Total for all the British West-India IslandsVirgin Islands
Virgin Islands8Trinidad
8TrinidadTobago
TobagoSt. Vincent
St. Vincent7St. Lucia
7St. LuciaSt. Christopher
St. ChristopherNevis
NevisMontserrat
Montserrat40Jamaica
40Jamaica3Grenada
3Grenada24Dominica
24DominicaDemerara
DemeraraBermuda
BermudaBerbice
BerbiceBarbadoes
BarbadoesAntigua
AntiguaA List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.
A List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.s1026s1025102410231022102110201019101810171016. —I do not say that it was carried on by members of the government—I had intended to avoid any personal allusion—but, as I am called upon, I do say, that it was carried on to such an extent, and in a manner so open, as to reflect, in the strongest manner, on the highest authorities in the island. Another military officer, a general, states, that from the vessels that were hovering over the coast of Bourbon, then in our possession, in the latter part of the year 1813, between nine and ten thousand new slaves were landed—that "the landings of new Africans were frequent, but by no means clandestine." Another officer, writing in 1819, says, that the whole population of the Mauritius—meaning the whites—were engaged in the violation of the Slave-trade Abolition laws; and that, in despite of them, 700 new slaves had been introduced in the preceding month. Another officer, a colonel in the army, writing in 1821, says, that at least 30,000 new slaves had been landed at the Mauritius, between 1810 and 1817. A naval officer, an admiral, gives governor Farquhar warning, in 1812, that the Slave-trade shall not be carried on, notwithstanding the encouragement it received. A captain in the navy, speaking of the
103710361035103410331032103110301029ll10281027‡Two of these are said to be returned servants from Scotland.†The greatest part of these Negroes were landed from an insurgent privateer. Vide Bounty Paper made up at the Treasury, 30th of March, 1822.**2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date
2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius
205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius8‡Cape of Good Hope
8‡Cape of Good Hope115†Bahama Islands
115†Bahama Islands82Total for all the British West-India Islands
82Total for all the British West-India IslandsVirgin Islands
Virgin Islands8Trinidad
8TrinidadTobago
TobagoSt. Vincent
St. Vincent7St. Lucia
7St. LuciaSt. Christopher
St. ChristopherNevis
NevisMontserrat
Montserrat40Jamaica
40Jamaica3Grenada
3Grenada24Dominica
24DominicaDemerara
DemeraraBermuda
BermudaBerbice
BerbiceBarbadoes
BarbadoesAntigua
AntiguaA List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.
A List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.
2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date
2,452For Mauritius alone up to the same date205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius
205Total for all British Colonies exclusive of Mauritius8‡Cape of Good Hope
8‡Cape of Good Hope115†Bahama Islands
115†Bahama Islands82Total for all the British West-India Islands
82Total for all the British West-India IslandsVirgin Islands
Virgin Islands8Trinidad
8TrinidadTobago
TobagoSt. Vincent
St. Vincent7St. Lucia
7St. LuciaSt. Christopher
St. ChristopherNevis
NevisMontserrat
Montserrat40Jamaica
40Jamaica3Grenada
3Grenada24Dominica
24DominicaDemerara
DemeraraBermuda
BermudaBerbice
BerbiceBarbadoes
BarbadoesAntigua
AntiguaA List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.
A List of the number of captured Negroes, on account of whom Bounties have been paid out of his Majesty's Treasury, to the 31st of March, 1822, distinguishing the number for each Colony.s1026s1025102410231022102110201019101810171016Mr. Fowell Buxton
1015 rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:—1015Mr. Fowell Buxton
 found fault with the East India Company, because it had allowed its servants not only to deprive Mr. Buckingham of his property, but also to leave him incumbered with debts incurred in acquiring that property. Every attempt which Mr. Buckingham had made to obtain redress had been treated with disdain and contempt; and even when he desired to obtain from its compassion such a remuneration as would only secure bread to himself and to his large family, he was met with the declaration, that he had been deservedly punished, and had no claim of any description on the East-India Company. He would support any motion of which the object was inquiry into Mr. Buckingham's case; and he would do so in the hope that the House would see justice done to that unfortunate individual.Mr. John Smith
1013 said, that every gentleman who had heard the speech of his right hon. friend, must be convinced, that no ground was laid for the charges which Mr. Buckingham had brought against the Indian government. By the law as it now stood, no man could reside in the territory of the East-India Company without receiving a special licence to do so. It was equally the law, that the governor-general could revoke that licence, if he so thought fit. Now, what had been the conduct of Mr. Buckingham? He had established a newspaper in 1815, which began by attacking, first the character of private individuals, and next the measures of public men, and which ended by arraigning in most unmeasured terms, the transactions of the government in the Nizam's country, and of the army in the territory of the king of Oude. These attacks were regularly translated and circulated in the native languages of India. Now, in a country which we held solely by the influence of opinion, was it possible that we could retain our supremacy, if individuals were allowed to arraign the government unreservedly in newspapers? The noble lord who presented the petition had said, that lord Hastings had given a free press to India. Now, lord Hastings had done no such thing. His lordship had abolished the antecedent censorship, but had erected a tribunal, to which all newspapers were, after publication, to be referred for its approval. The notices which Mr. Buckingham had received, that any future in-fraction of the regulations of government would be punished by his dismissal, had been frequent. In 1821, this notice had been repeated in the most, unequivocal, manner. It had been said that, since his return, lord Hastings had declared that he had no intention of strictly enforcing
1013Dr. Phillimore
 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "to authorize sheriffs' and other officers to abstain from arresting, or to discharge persons arrested by them, who may be in such a state of health that they cannot be removed to gaol without danger to their lives." The hon. member, amidst loud and frequent cries of "question," went on for a short time to state the grounds on which his motion rested, but so frequent were the interruptions, that not more than one or two connected sentences reached the gallery. We understood the hon. member to say, that nothing could be more inconsistent with justice and humanity than to drag an unfortunate debtor to prison in a state of health in which the removal risked his life.—No discussion took place on the hon. member's motion, which was immediately negatived without a division.Mr. R. Martin
1012 said, he had hoped that this question had been finally settled by the late decision at the East-India-house; but as it was again mooted, he must again repeat that Mr. Buckingham's punishment was only the result of his misconduct. So far was Mr. Buckingham from being an ill-used individual, that he even consi-
1012Mr. Astell
1014 said, that if the question were solely confined to the removal of Mr. Buckingham from India, perhaps he might be disposed to concur in the propriety of his removal. But looking at the whole of the conduct which had been adopted to-
1014Mr. Trant
1011 begged to remind the House, that the petitioner could not maintain, in our courts of law, an action against the Indian government for any injury which he had received from it in the exercise of its power, and that his only remedy therefore lay in the supreme authority of that House. He confessed he was very strongly struck by one of the statements in the petition. Banishment might be nothing in the opinion of some mem-
1011Mr. Scarlett
 said, that he might, with great propriety, move that the order which the House had made on a former evening On this subject should now be rescinded; and the ground upon which he should be justified, in doing so was, that there had been no notice of the motion which the noble lord had carried. He had, at first, resolved to do so, but he had since abandoned his intention; and he would tell the House why: it was, because the case was one in which an individual complained of having suffered great hardship. If it had been of a different description he should certainly have acted upon his original resolution. The noble lord communicated to him, and to another gentleman on his side of the House, his intention of presenting a petition; but he had given no intimation whatever that he purposed to follow it up by a motion; and certainly he could not have imagined the noble lord intended to make such a motion as that which had been proposed. Knowing, as he did, the noble lord's usual courtesy in all matters which he brought before the House, he should not have believed it if he had been told that any such proceeding would have been adopted by him. He did not now rise to oppose the motion; but as the noble lord, in forming a committee of sixteen, had taken only five members from the ministerial side of the House, the other eleven being selected from the opposite benches, he should object to the addition of any more names to the committee.Mr. Wynn
 said, he was sure his noble friend had no intention of taking the House by surprise. He had not requested him to attend, nor, as he believed, many other gentlemen who were usually in the habit of acting with him.Colonel Davies
 said, he supposed the reason of the right hon. gentleman's complaint was, that no Treasury notes had been issued on the occasion.Lord Milton
1112 said, that so far from there having been any intention on the part of his noble friend to take the House by surprise, he had himself requested his noble friend to put off the motion. He bad no reason for doing so, but that he
1112Mr. Hobhouse
 said, his right hon. friend had been misunderstood. Undoubtedly, the rules of the House were not made for the convenience of one side or the other; and he believed that, if the course now complained of were adopted on that side of the House, gentlemen opposite would complain of it bitterly, and with great justice. He must confess he was surprised that the noble lord should have made this motion without notice. He was himself on his way to the House on the evening on which it had been made, but hearing that there was nothing before the House but petitions, he was ashamed to say he turned back.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1113 protested he had neither had, nor heard of, any such notice as that about which the right hon. gentleman had spoken; and yet he had voted on the former evening with his noble friend; and did not regret that he had done so. As to the objections that had been taken to the noble lord's mode of proceeding in. this case, the whole of the matter was, that the right hon. gentleman was very sore. He did not like to be beaten; and defeat was yet too new a visitation for him to be callous to it. For his own part, he could not agree with those who thought that a formal notice ought always to be
1113Mr. Calcraft
 was inclined to think that the motion of his noble friend, on a former evening, had been carried against ministers, not quite so much by surprise as some hon. members seemed to imagine. The debate on that occasion was undoubtedly not a very short one. There had been a great deal of discussion upon it. If he recollected rightly, an hon. and learned friend, from Doctors' Commons (Dr. Phillimore) addressed the House at considerable length, and no doubt in a manner very profitable to those whom he addressed; but the length of that address was certainly not the less profitable to the division which subsequently took place. For during his learned friend's exercitation, a great many members came down, who, not being scared like the Chancellor of the Exchequer at hearing that the debate was only about a petition, did not turn back, but took their places in time to vote with his majesty's ministers. And, by a singular coincidence it happened, that during precisely the same period, and while his learned friend was stating his view of the question, a great many gentlemen on his (Mr. B.'s) side of the House left it. The vote was not, therefore, altogether so mere a matter of accident as it had been described to be. The fact was, that a very general impression, in the case of Mr. Buckingham, had gone abroad—and a very strong one too— that, somehow or other, by the conduct of the East India Company, that gentle-man had been very hardly used.Mr. Brougham
1114 said, he thought he had a right to complain that the noble lord had not given any notice that he intended to move for a select committee. He had certainly stated, that he would bring the petition under the consideration of the House, but he did not even hint that he would follow up that proceeding with a
1114Dr. Phillimore
 said, that if the motion in question had been introduced for the purpose of levelling an attack against the lamented individual whose name had been mentioned, or if he thought that by possibility it could lead to such an attack, he would have been the last man to have given it his support.Mr. Brougham
 said, he undoubtedly never thought that the noble lord or his learned friend would make themselves parties to such an attack, but he knew that many persons, in bringing forward this question, had mixed up the character of Mr. Adam with it, in a most unjustifiable manner.Dr. Phillimore
1115 defended the course he had taken on a former evening. The gentlemen around him had no more notice of what he meant to do than the gentleman opposite had. And when he stated that he would introduce the petition, he did not give notice of what he would afterwards do, because he wished to leave it open to himself to pursue that course which might, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, appear to be necessary. He considered the course which he had adopted to be as regular as any other that could be pointed out. He conceived that he, or any other member, was competent to bring forward the motion, without giving notice
1115Lord J. Russell
 said, that Mr. Adam's character or conduct had nothing to do with this petition. Mr. Buckingham complained of the destruction of his property, which had taken place after Mr. Adam had left the government, and when he was absent for the benefit of his health. The sending Mr. Buckingham from India by Mr. Adam, and the subsequent destruction of his property under the government of lord Amherst, were two very distinct questions.Mr. Hume
1116 said, that the honorable gentleman wished to persuade the House, that the case of Mr. Buckingham, as it had been brought before them, applied only to the destruction of his property subsequently to his leaving India;
1116Mr. Astell
 observed, that Mr. Buckingham having appealed to the privy council, and that body having decided against his appeal, he thought it a most unusual course to bring the subject before parliament. In common fairness, a notice of the noble lord's intention to move for a select committee ought to have been given; because he believed many individuals would have voted against the motion, had they been aware that it was a matter between Mr. Buckingham and the East India Company on which the privy council had adjudicated.The Solicitor General
 observed, that the parties now proposed were either in office, or connected with the East India Company; whereas, when the committee were appointed the other night, he believed the names were taken alternately from both sides of the House.Lord Milton
1117 said, that there were on the committee which was appointed on Tuesday evening, five persons, who were either commissioners of the Board of Control, or East India directors,—individuals who were certain to vote against Mr. Buckingham's claim. Of the other members of the committee, a considerable
1117Lord J. Russell
 was of opinion, that Mr. Speaker Williams would rather be ashamed of the manner in which the committee was selected on Tuesday last, than of the addition which it was now proposed to make to it. A noble lord had stated, that the members of the committee had been taken alternately from both sides of the House. Now, out of sixteen names, ten had been taken from the opposite side of the House; and one of the remaining six had made a speech in favour of Mr. Buckingham. Two names of gentlemen who were favourable, he believed, to this claim, had since been added to the list; so that there was a balance of 13 against 5.Mr. Peel
 said, the right hon. gentleman should allow others to act on the principle which he and his friends had adopted in forming the committee, in the early part of the session, on the Scotch and Irish currency. On that occasion, a committee of twenty-one persons had been appointed, three only of whom could speak the sentiments of the people of Scotland with respect to the currency question; while the other members of the committee were all ready to destroy the present circulation of Scotland. There was the chancellor of the Exchequer decidedly in favour of an alteration. Mr. Peel also in favour of it.Mr. Hume
—I never said any thing about it.Mr. Peel.
—I beg to state my recollection of the matter; having, on the very day, noted the circumstance, as proving this to be the most partial list that was ever drawn up.Mr. Hume.
—I did not open my lips on the subject.Mr. Peel.
1118 proceeded to contend, that the list of the committee appointed to consider Mr. Buckingham's petition was not a partial one. The list was put into the noble lord's hand partly written, and the success of his motion was as little
1118Mr. Hume
 said, that undoubtedly he had a strong opinion on the subject of Scotch currency. He thought it was right to extend to Scotland the system which prevailed in this country. But, when the motion for a committee was made by his right hon. friend, he did not say a word on the subject; so, it was impossible that the hon. member could have taken any note on the subject. When the hon. member said there were but three members connected with Scotland appointed on that committee, he was at a loss to know on what principle it was that he formed his calculation. He, however, could say very little for the correctness of the hon. member's estimate. He found on that committee, besides those whom the hon. member had mentioned, the lord Advocate, lord F. Gower, who could not be said to have no interest in the question, and Mr. W. Gordon; and when the hon. member for Aberdeen proposed Mr. W. Gordon, he ought to recollect that the proposition was at once agreed to.Mr. Peel
 said, in answer to the observation which had been made by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel), that he went into the committee without any bias on his mind. He was perfectly open to conviction. He scorned the imputation of going into a committee of inquiry with his mind made up to a particular decision.Mr. Trant
 said, he had not insinuated that the hon. member had any undue bias on his mind. He had merely observed, that the hon. member had spoken and voted in favour of the motion.Mr. Peel
 observed, that if the object of this committee was fair inquiry, it certainly ought not to be filled up by those who had voted against such inquiry.Mr. Scarlett
110611051104 said, he was desirous to make a few remarks upon the petition which had been just presented, containing charges the most insupportable
110611051104The Attorney-General
 said, that the reply of the Attorney-general consisted rather of an attack on colonel Bradley, than of an exculpation of those who were affected by the charges contained in the petition. Although colonel Bradley might have mixed up with his case circumstances which had been as well omitted, yet that was not the main point of the case. He had no doubt colonel Bradley was in error, in supposing that sir H. Torrens, and sir H. Taylor would decend to the acts imputed to them; but if colonel Arthur was actually in possession of the commission, as he stated, for what possible object could he conceal it? Why allow colonel Bradley to resort to measures which might have led to insurrection in the colony, when he had a commission in his pocket, which, if colonel Bradley had common sense, must have immediately satisfied him? Colonel Bradley applied personally, and wrote officially, to colonel Arthur, calling upon him to state his right to retain the command, but no authority was produced, and he therefore thought colonel Bradley had reason to complain of extreme hardship. With respect to the power of dismal from the army without court martial, that was a question on which his opinions were already known, and he should not, therefore go into it: but if it were a power to be exercised at all, it was one so fearful and extensive, that it ought to be under the control of the utmost caution. Here was an individual who had long and faithfully served his country, and was dismissed without an opportunity of having the charges investigated. It was one of the complaints of colonel Bradley, that up to this hour he had never seen the charges which had been preferred against him. Another of his difficulties was, that government had undertaken the defence of colonel Arthur; and by appointing him to a foreign station, had relieved him from the payment of costs and damages. He therefore hoped, that the Attorney-general would not object to the allowing the petition to be printed, lest, thereby, the injustice and oppression which it imputed might go unredressed.Colonel Davies
1110 contended, that the
1110Mr. Secretary Peel
1123 said, he would not detain the House by a repetition of the arguments that bad been urged against the bill; but his opinions as to its injustice and impolicy were unchanged, and he therefore should take the sense of the House upon the second reading. He objected to it chiefly as a measure totally uncalled for by present circumstances. Though he thought that, generally speaking, it was a bad system to adopt, to legislate according to the feelings of people out of doors, which the hon. member for Aberdeen had just professed his willingness to do with regard to his machinery, as he considered it to be the duty of that House the rather to lead public opinion than to follow it; yet, as the doctrine of public feeling had been seconded by the president of the Board of Trade, and by the secretary for the Home Department, he should think himself justified in adopting the same line of argument. The first class which, to a man, were opposed to the measure, were the corn-dealers,—a class with which he did not generally sympathise. A great excitement had been created amongst that class, on account of the attacks which had been made on their property; but that body could meet and express their opinion and feelings simultaneously, as they all met at the corn market; but not so the corn growers, who were diffused throughout the country without any means of communication. If, therefore, he felt for the corn-dealers, he felt doubly for the corn-growers; as the present measure militated principally against their interest. There were 400,000 quarters of bonded corn to be introduced into the market, and 500,000 quarters to be imported; and all this at a time when it was known that there was abundance of corn in the granaries of the country. He denied that the corn had been kept back in the hopes that there would be a scarcity; though he would admit that it was reserved from the prospect of a better market. If ministers were to have the discretion they asked for, he did not wish them to state the price at which foreign corn was to be imported; he would rather that they did not: the measure was theirs, and it was right that they should take all the responsibility, if
1123Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, that at the first introduction of this measure he was not disposed to view it in a favourable light; but, after the best consideration he had been enabled to give it, he thought the decision which the House had come to on the subject was highly creditable to it, and showed the feeling which it entertained for the distresses of the country. He believed that the fears of many hon. members were unfounded, as to the quantity of corn now in bond. It had been stated at 400,000 quarters; but he had reason to think that it did not exceed 269,000 quarters. Peeling that the measure was not likely to be productive of the injury which some hon. members anticipated, he would vote for the second reading; but he would reserve himself as to the details of the measure, until it should be in the committee.Sir W. W. Wynn
1124s. regretted that the hon. baronet had determined to take the sense of the House on this measure; for he thought the general question lost much in the opinion of the country by those frequent divisions. If, however, the hon. baronet pressed it to a division, he would vote for the second reading. He would not do so because he approved of the bill as a whole. And here he would observe, in reference to what had fallen from the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs on a former evening, that he would not be one of his "compurgators" in bearing him out as to the necessity of this measure. He would, however, go to a committee, and he would there propose that 651124s.Colonel Wood
1125s.ss.s,s., said that the measure, as it now stood, was different from that which had been first introduced. The alterations made were certainly improvements; for had the first proposition been carried, to open the ports at a duty of 121125s.ss.s,s.,Mr. Bankes
112811271126 said, that it was a great satisfaction to him to know, that though many gentlemen had felt warmly in the discussions which had recently taken place on this measure, all of them had abstained from examining it with any undue degree of heat and violence. He trusted that they would still preserve the same moderation which had hitherto guided them, and that whatever exasperation might prevail elsewhere, none would be perceived within the walls of that House. He was anxious to make a few remarks on this question, because the greater part of what he had hitherto heard, referred not so much to the question itself, as to the course which government had pursued upon it, and the moment at which it had brought it forward. The hon. member for Dorsetshire had told the House, that he had four objections to it. The first of them was, that government had acted with inconsistency in proposing the measure at all. Now, that might be a good argument as against the government; but, if the measure were right, it was no argument against the measure. He asserted, however, that government had not acted inconsistently. It was true, that when his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade, was asked, early in the session, if it was the intention of his majesty's government to bring forward a general revision of the Corn-laws, his answer was in the negative. The reason was, that the last session of a parliament was a most unfit time for the consideration of a subject of so much importance. The little by-battles that had occurred on the presenting of the several petitions on the subject sufficiently showed the spirit in which the general discussion would have been carried on. But, although his majesty's government thought it inexpedient to enter on the revision of the whole system of the Corn-laws, it by no means followed that it was inconsistent on their part, when any necessity called upon them
112811271126The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped that this measure would be merely temporary, but felt himself bound, in the choice of evils, to vote with ministers. From every information he had been able to collect from the best informed persons, he believed there was no probability of any scarcity, much less of any famine taking place in the country before the next harvest. So far was he from thinking that there was any "solemn nonsense" in the moral effect which this measure was described as likely to produce, that it was on account of that very "moral effect" that he voted for it. No practical evil, he was convinced, would arise from it; and if it tended, in any degree, to satisfy the public mind, it was at any rate one advantage gained.Lord Clifton
 said, he would certainly give his support to the proposition of the hon. member for Brecon, and allow the bill to be read a second time. Any objections to the detail could be much more conveniently urged in the committee.Mr. Wodehouse
 gave notice, that in the committee on the bill, he would propose a clause that the local committees, upon producing certificates of their having bought the bonded corn let loose into the market for the purpose of distributing it among the distressed manufacturers, should be entitled to claim from the Treasury repayment of the duties paid upon it. In making this proposition, which would have the effect of localizing the relief afforded by government, he trusted he should have the assistance of the majority of the House.Mr. Stanley
 thought that a dispassionate consideration of the subject could not be expected at the present period. The hon. member had wished for the opinions of practical men on this subject; but he would ask, whether it would be proper to withdraw practical man from other and more important business at this period? If he were an advocate for the measure proposed by the hon. member, he thought he should best promote the object in view, by requesting him to postpone it.Mr. Secretary Peel
 expressed a hope, that under the circumstances stated, the hon. member would not press his motion at present.Captain Maberly
 regretted very much that the noble lord had made a speech, which, with whatever good humour it might have been delivered, was, in consequence of the introduction of some topics, calculated to interrupt the temperate and moderate course in which the debate had hitherto proceeded. An opportunity had been taken by the noble lord to involve the House in a very important discussion, which, however fit for consideration on another occasion, was certainly rather ill-timed on the present [cheers, with cries of "no, no!"]. When he heard it preferred as a charge.—Mr. Secretary Peel
1121 said, that whatever opinion might be entertained of the merits of this question, the present moment was the most unfavourable that could be selected for agitating it. The inquiry which this subject had undergone was the most defective that could be imagined. There had been no evidence on the subject from Lancashire, Glasgow, Birmingham, or from several other places in which this manufacture was carried on. The House had not heard the opinions of Bolton and Watt, and other eminent scientific men engaged in the trade; but from the information which had reached him on the subject, he was led to believe, that the opinions of those gentlemen were not favourable to an unlimited exportation of machinery. A petition was last year presented from Nottingham, full of information on this subject, and to that petition he should wish to refer the hon. member. He would admit, that in time copies of our machines would find their way into foreign countries; but all those hitherto sent there were imperfect, and to repair them workmen were required from this
1121Mr. Littleton
 said, that if we had no means of employing the manufacturers of machines at home, it would be but common justice to allow them to manufacture for foreign countries. The export of machinery would have the effect not only of giving employment to many of the manufacturers, but would also enable many persons in the trade, who now had machines unemployed, to dispose of them to advantage to other countries. With respect to the question then before the House, he thought that on the principle of free trade, which was carried into so many other branches of our commerce, the export of machinery would not have an injurious tendency; but, under all the circumstances of the present time, it was his opinion that it would be better to refer the whole subject to a committee next session.Mr. Philips
s. said, that his main objection to this measure was, that it was not called for by circumstances of necessity. No case had been made out for it, and any inference to be drawn from the state of the markets was unfavourable, rather than favourable, to it. It was now said, that it was not so much the amount as the invariability of duty which was the desired object; but was the letting of the bonded corn into the market a means of securing steadiness of price? Quite the contrary. The price of corn had never been so unvarying as for the last seven years, but this influx of bonded corn would generate great fluctuations in the price. He asserted, from a knowledge of the circumstances, that 50s.Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that the circumstances which had been adverted to by his hon. and learned friend opposite, namely, that he had been professionally engaged in the cause, induced him to come forward to avoid any unjust inferences being drawn from his silence. He had always considered it expedient that professional men should abstain from interfering in that House on questions in which they had been professionally engaged; and the reasons for such a course were too obvious to require explanation. These remarks would not apply to his hon. and learned friend opposite, who stood in the capacity of a public officer, and as such was bound to conduct proceedings of this nature. As the court had decided in a particular manner, and as that decision was final, he was not at liberty to comment upon it; but he had always understood, from the very beginning of this cause, that the highest imputation against colonel Bradley was an error of judgment. With respect to the charges preferred by the petitioner against certain honourable persons, he would fain hope the House would pause before they adopted, as a principle, that no charge was to be printed amongst their votes which happened to reflect upon high individuals. He must say here, that with respect to the charges preferred against these honourable persons, he knew nothing at all about them; but having read the petition, he must differ with his hon. and learned friend in supposing that there was any thing in it personally offensive to the gentleman alluded to. All the petition did was to accuse some person of having forged a certain commission; colonel Arthur not having produced that commission when he was repeatedly called upon to do so. He could not recognize the principle, that the House had a right to refuse a petition, because it contained charges against individuals, how high so ever their rank or station. If the petition, then, ought to be received, the question of printing followed the same rule. It was a matter of course, that the votes should be printed for the use of the members; and, as to publicity, the rule was well known, that a person who published any statement contained in a petition was liable to punishment, as in the case of libel.Mr. Brougham
1129 declared the cause of the existing distress to be the recent tampering with the currency, and added his conviction, that it did not arise out of the Corn-laws. The relief which this measure professed to give to the manufacturers, would be inefficient, if it were not attended by a paper currency; besides, the letting loose the bonded corn, would be of no advantage to the destitute and unemployed manufacturers, unless it were given to them. The effect of the measure must be either to reduce the market price of corn or not. If it did reduce it, it would involve the agriculturists in distress without relieving the manufacturers, and thus it would ul-
1129Mr. Benett
 said, he belonged to what were called the country gentlemen in that House, and his object in rising was to defend them from the charges which had been brought against them. It had been said, that it was they who brought the country to its present state of distress by supporting the last war. For himself, he should say that he was not one of those who supported that war: on the contrary, he had always opposed it, and supported every measure which was calculated to hasten its conclusion. He was, therefore, innocent of all its consequences, and he hoped his country would acquit him of being accessary to its bad effects.Mr. Wharton
 deprecated the introduction of any such measure at the present moment; because it must necessarily produce a most unpleasant feeling in the country. It would be much better to wait until the next session of parliament. As to the committee, to which the hon. mover had alluded, he must say, that the whole of the evidence given before it was decidedly ex-parte.Mr. Birch
l. defended the character of colonel Arthur, than whom no man in the service bore a higher character. As to the dispute between him and the petitioner, he was enabled to assure the House that colonel Arthur had been regularly continued in his command, and that it was in his own defence that he arrested colonel Bradley, whose conduct in assuming the command had well nigh led to an insurrection in the colony. Colonel Bradley had had a verdict of 100l.Mr. Butterworth
 entered into a detail of the occurrences mentioned in the petition, and contended, that there was one plain and obvious course for colonel Arthur to have pursued, namely, to produce the commission, if he really possessed it: that would have prevented all the evils which followed, and which were the more dangerous, and the more to have been avoided, when they knew that the colony was almost in a state of insurrection. All complaints were charges of one kind or other, and involved more or less the character of those who were the subject of them. He knew not, indeed, how justice could be done without them; but, as the right hon. gentleman seemed to have so great an objection to those passages which affected the conduct of sir H. Torrens, he would, although he wished to move that it be printed, in the hope that some member might feel it right to take measures for having it referred to a committee, now consent to withdraw it altogether.Mr. Hume
11031102110111001099 said, he had been
11031102110111001099Mr. Hume
 said, he had brought forward the motion in consequence of the petitions which had been presented to the House from the manufacturers of machines, complaining of being out of employment, and praying for relief. He did hope, that the principle which he advocated would at last be adopted; but as some hon. members thought the discussion of the subject would increase irritation in the minds of the manufacturers, and as he had no wish to add to that which already existed, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his motion.Mr. Hume
1119 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill "to repeal so much of the 6th of Geo. IV. cap. 107, as relates to the Exportation of Tools and Utensils." He contended, that the neces-
1119Mr. Hume
1120 apprehended, that if leave were given to export every species of machinery, without discrimination, considerable mischief must ensue. In some cases, the exportation of machinery had been allowed; namely, in those cases
1120Mr. Huskisson
 said, it would be hopeless to attempt to carry any measure into effect on this subject in the present session.Mr. Huskisson
1134s.s.11331132 continued.—Well then, when he heard the landed interest referred to as having supported the government at an arduous crisis, he felt that they had a right to look back to what they had done with conscious pride and satisfaction, considering the glory their country had acquired, and the services they had ren-
1134s.s.11331132Mr. Peel
 felt compelled to vote against the second reading of the bill. He had heard with considerable satisfaction the proposition which had come from the last speaker, but could not guess how far it would meet the approbation of government.Sir E. Knatchbull
l.s.11311130 said, he was rejoiced to hear that the proposition of the hon. member had the approbation of the hon. baronet; but if the hon. baronet supposed the House could get through this question without some discussion on the Corn-laws, he would find himself greatly mistaken. The measures now proposed proclaimed to the world that the Corn-laws were laws which could not be permanent in this country. They were laws for fair weather, and whenever a storm arose, it became necessary to re-consider them. Honourable members must, therefore, if this measure passed, make up their minds to consider fully the whole question at an early period of the next session. He was not absurd enough to suppose that the Corn-laws were the sole cause of the existing distress in the manufacturing districts; but he had no hesitation in saying, that in one respect they had a great effect in producing it, and that was in the interruption which they gave to the commercial interests of our manufacturers with foreign countries. Honourable gentlemen might depend upon it, that the Corn-laws would be settled in one way or another before long.
l.s.11311130Lord Milton
—Not as a charge.Lord Milton.
110911081107 said, that if the pe-
110911081107Lord Palmerston
s.1136 said, he did not wish to obtrude his opinions upon the House, al-
s.1136Colonel Wood
 suggested to his hon. friend the propriety of standing still. As ministers had taken upon themselves the responsibility, it would be better for the landed interest to leave the matter entirely in their hands. He did not think that circumstances would arise to call for the exercise of the power; but in case they did, it would be better that ministers should have the entire responsibility.Mr. Calcraft
 then said, he should not press the motion, although his mind remained unaltered.Colonel Wood
 warmly defended the landed interest from the continually recurring taunts and attacks of the noble lord. The Corn-laws were intended more to favour the production of corn in this country than to put money into the pockets of the landowners. He, however, was for a free trade in corn—he meant, of course, subject to a protecting duty.Mr. Calcraft
11911190 said, he was most willing to bear testimony to the great industry bestowed on that department of government over which the right hon. gentleman presided, of which the able and elaborate detail just given to the House afforded ample proof. There was hardly one point on which the right hon. gentleman had touched, in which he did not concur with him; and he rose, not so much with the intention of following the right hon. gentleman's remarks, as that of thanking him for the able manner in which he had developed his views, and for the general system he proposed to adopt with respect to our domestic and foreign shipping. As to the effects of the alterations introduced by the right hon. gentleman, he could speak with some confidence, having watched them narrowly; because, he was sure no man could say beforehand—and any man who pretended so to say was a charlatan—what effects would arise from any measure; and he knew they had been beneficial, though he was not prepared to find them equal to what the returns read by the right hon. gentleman stated them to be. By them it appeared, that there had been a considerable increase in the trade with the north of Europe, conformably to what had before been stated. When he recollected, however, the mad speculations of last year and the stupor of the present, he hardly thought that any returns made of these two periods could, with safety, be assumed as the correct basis for sober calculation. The people of this country, particularly those connected with the shipping interest, laboured probably under a mistake, in expecting now to possess the monopoly of trade as they had done during the war. There was no possibility of their having this,
11911190Mr. Baring
11931192 contended, that the statements of the right hon. gentleman were at variance with the papers then before the House. During the last four
11931192Mr. Robertson
1198 in alluding to the increased quantity of foreign shipping which had been in our ports since the passing of the reciprocity acts, took occasion to observe, that he was not at all surprised at it. Foreign ships, he was well aware, could be bought and navigated at a much less expense than our own, in consequence of our ship-builders having to send abroad for most of their materials, and also in consequence of their having to pay a greater sum for wages and provisions. Merchants, who had goods to freight, would naturally send them by those vessels which asked the least price; and, as the foreigner could afford to convey at a less price than the British shipowner, it was no wonder that, of late years, a greater quantity of foreign shipping had arrived in our ports. He had neverdoubted that this would be the effect of the system of reciprocity. Though he had no knowledge of political economy, he was inclined to believe that the increased amount of exports and imports was a proof of increased prosperity; and yet he could not conceal from himself a
1198Captain Gordon,
1202 declared his intention of not trespassing long, at that hour of the night, on the attention of the House; indeed, he could have wished that hon. gentlemen, instead of rushing wildly into this discussion, had waited until they had seen the papers printed which his right hon. friend had presented. They would then have avoided many errors into which they had now almost unavoidably fallen. The hon. gentleman who had just sat down had told the House, that his right hon. friend had deceived himself in the view which he had taken of the shipping interest. To that observation he would merely reply, that the printing of the papers would best decide whether his right hon. friend or the hon. member for Aberdeen were correct m the view they had taken of the subject. The great object which his right hon. friend wished to accomplish by his statement of that night was, to prove to the nation, that the complaints made against them out of doors were utterly unfounded, and that the measures which he had introduced had not had any effect in diminishing the commercial marine of the country, but on the contrary had considerably increased it. If, at the same time that our commercial marine had increased, our
1202Mr. C. Grant
 felt that when, by common consent, or, he should rather say, at the earnest request of the whole House, his hon. friend had withdrawn his intended amendment, this was not a fit occasion for an angry discussion of the general principle of the Corn-laws. Some expressions had certainly been used by the noble lord, which, he regretted to say, were calculated to produce feelings of irritation. He trusted, however, that this course would not again be pursued, as he was convinced, that the worst thing that could happen to prevent a fair and candid consideration of the Corn-laws at any future period, was to seize every passing opportunity, when that subject was touched upon, to excite the feelings of the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that if, as the noble lord had stated, no class was to be so high as to be above animadversion, none was so low as to be deprived of defence. He would tell the noble lord what he understood by a remunerating price. It was three per cent on the purchase money, and five per cent on the capital expended on the land. Surely this was no such extravagant expectation.Mr. Calcraft
1138 objected generally to the principle of the Corn-laws, on account of their tendency to bring bad land into cultivation, and thereby render it impos-
1138Major Maberly
 wished to have a positive assurance from ministers, that the general question of the Corn-laws should be taken into consideration next year. All classes were equally and justly dissatisfied with their vacillating and uncertain policy.Mr. Maberly
 said, that the only understanding on which he had withdrawn his amendment was the general expression of the feeling of the House, that he should not go any further. He had no communication with any body on the subject. When he found such a general agreement, he was not so presumptuous as to persevere against the sense of the House. But if they wished him to proceed, there he was, with his amendment in his pocket, and his speech ready, as well as he could make one.Colonel Wood
s.1139 said, that although he understood the gentlemen of the landed interest had compromised this subject with his majesty's ministers, he for one could not give his assent to any such arrangement. If, however, he was, from a conviction of the impolicy of such arrangement, disposed to oppose it, he was still more confirmed in his opposition by seeing the hon. member for Brecon, to whom the agricultural interests seemed to have confided their case, come down with an amendment ready cut and dry in support of such an arrangement. For his part, he could not feel himself justified in bartering away the interests of one of the largest agricultural counties in England, without the most unquestionable proof of its necessity. The farmers of that county were in a state of the greatest terror and alarm, from the impolitic, mischievous and useless, agitation of the corn question at the present moment—a time of all others the least fitted for attempting any of those perilous changes which must be produced by persisting in the course they were called upon to adopt. No prudent government ought, indeed, to have proposed measures likely to excite so much agitation in the present state of the country. At a moment when the bankers, merchants, manufacturers, and the great mass of the people were suffering the greatest evils, and almost plunged into despair, from the losses of the past and the prospect of the future—at that moment, ministers, to increase the evil, and extend the calamity, chose to throw the agricultural districts into alarm and dismay, by
s.1139Sir W. Ingilby
 said, that this amendment could not, by possibility, form part of the present bill. The hon. baronet had mistaken it for the warehoused corn-bill, which stood the next on the orders of the day.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1140s. said, if he thought that the admission of the bonded corn at a duty of 121140s.Mr. Portman
s.s.,s.d.s.s.s.s. repeated the statement which had been already made, that the reason for fixing the duty at 12s.s.,s.d.s.s.s.s.Mr. Huskisson
s.s.,s.s.s.s.,s.,s.s.d.s.s.s.s.,s.1141s. said, that if he thought the duty of 17s.s.,s.s.s.s.,s.,s.s.d.s.s.s.s.,s.1141s.Mr. Baring
1142s. thought that, in the settlement of the duty, some regard ought to be had to the quality of the corn in bond. A great deal of it was of so inferior a description, that 121142s.Mr. Ellice
 denied that the dealers in corn deserved the aspersions which had been cast upon them.Mr. T. Wilson
s. thought it would be impolitic, as well as ungracious, to lay on a higher duty than the 12s.Mr. Whitmore
 agreed entirely with ministers in postponing the general discussion of the Corn-laws to the next session; but he merely concurred in this postponement, on account of the change which had been made in the state of the currency. He trusted that now, when country gentlemen saw that ministers could not, or would not, protect them in their high prices, they would direct their attention to a more legitimate source of wealth—a reduction of the burthens of the country.Mr. Monck
 said, that he had no reason to change the opinion which he had formerly expressed upon the subject under discussion. He was quite sure that the present measure would be productive of little permanent benefit. He nevertheless thought that as it had been held out as a means of affording a temporary relief, it would be ungracious now to stop short. With a view, however, of rendering that relief as extensive as possible, he should propose a clause, that on a certificate from the chairman of any local committee for the relief of the distressed in the manufacturing districts, that a quantity of bonded corn had been purchased for the relief of the distressed districts, government should remit to the committee a sum of money equal to the amount of duty paid upon that corn, to be employed in the further business of relief.Mr. Stanley
1143 objected to the proposed clause. He thought that the hon. gentleman's late visit to Lancashire had made so great an impression on him as to induce him to confine his view of this subject to the distress in that neighbourhood alone. But there were other parts of the country which felt the pressure, and which were quite as much manufacturing districts. Shropshire, Warwickshire, Somer-
1143Mr. Huskisson
 objected to the bill generally, and expressed his conviction, that if the currency had not been interfered with, the present distress would not have existed. He was sure, also, that if an immediate return to the former system was not adopted, still greater distress would be felt.Sir John Wrottesley
1144 opposed the clause, on the ground that it was likely to afford opportunities for numerous frauds, and that it would not reach the distress of the interior of the country, without doing, at the same time, considerable mischief. He objected
1144Mr. Peel
l.l.,s.l.l., said, that he wished to bring under the notice of the House certain duties affecting our shipping, which, though they were of small account when considered separately, became of some importance when considered collectively. He concurred with the hon. member for Coventry that what was wanted to enable the British to compete with the foreign ship-owner was a reduction of taxation. He held in his hand a statement of the charges which had been paid by a small vessel of 71 tons, on her voyage from London to Petersburgh. The fees for pilotage were 10l.l.,s.l.l.,Mr. Rumbold
1196 said, that in his opinion the proceedings of last year had materially added to the distresses of the shipping interest, and had produced changes not only in this country, but all over the world. The present distress was said, by ministers, to have been created by the system of over-trading which our merchants and manufacturers had pursued; but he begged leave to retort the charge, and to declare that ministers themselves had been the cause of that over-trading, by the excitement and stimulus which they had given to the already excited spirit of speculation. He had no hesitation in saying, that the calamities of 1816, of 1819, and of 1826, had all been produced by the sudden contraction of the issues of the country, which had been previously deluged with paper money, beyond the amount required by its internal and external commerce. It was said now, that the quantity of shipping was increasing in this country, and not only here, but in Canada; but the fact was, that though more vessels might now be built in that colony than had formerly been built there, they were brought home almost immediately afterwards, and sold for little more than half of their original cost. The new ships not only could not find sufficient employment, but in what they did obtain they interfered with the employment of those vessels with which our ports were already overstocked. The right hon. gentleman had said, that within the last year there had been an increase of British shipping, beyond the increase of foreign shipping in the same time. That fact might easily be accounted for, without at all proving that our shipping interest was in a better situation than it had formerly been. The increase referred to, was the consequence of that system of over-trading which the right hon. gentleman deplored, and which, when we were importing from all parts of the continent, had occasioned a demand for the service of all the British shipping; and when their numbers were exhausted, and not till then, had had recourse to foreign shipping to aid in satisfying the powerful commercial excitement which had been created. The shipping interest were mistaken if they imagined that the right hon. gentleman could alter his course for their particular benefit. He could not do so: and if he did, he would not do enough. What course, then, must he pursue? Why, he must not only follow
1196Mr. Ellice
 said, he would not press his motion for a minimum or maximum of price. He preferred throwing the whole responsibility on the shoulders of ministers.Mr. Portman
 said, he would not persevere in the opposition.Sir E. Harvey
12011200 was of opinion, that the country could not congratulate itself at present upon the state of the shipping interests. He thought that if the right hon. gentleman would leave out of his calculation the increase of our shipping which had taken place last year, in consequence of the speculations which then were so prevalent, he would not find that there was any just ground for exultation in the
12011200Mr. Hume
 strongly objected to the conduct of the noble lord, in encouraging the cry against the landed interest.Mr. N. Calvert
1199d.,d.s.,s.l. said, that he could not concur in the view which the right hon. gentleman below him had taken of the present state of the shipping interest. The right hon. gentleman had ascribed the present distressed state of it to the over-trading which had recently prevailed throughout the country. Now, that over-trading was owing to the government and not to the merchants; and therefore the right hon. gentleman was not justified in saying, that the merchants were themselves to blame for the depression which existed in every department of the shipping interest. He admitted, that when the freights were high last year, we were enabled to compete with the foreigner; but he complained that, now that they had fallen, we were unequal to that competition. He could show to the House, by a series of details, that of the arrivals in the river since the beginning of the month, the proportion was as three, or at least as two, to one in favour of foreign shipping. So long as the British ship-owner was obliged to pay 31199d.,d.s.,s.l.Mr. T. Wilson
 said, he did not mean to enter into a detail of the arguments, respecting the right hon. gentleman's commercial policy, but he could not refrain from expressing his opinion, that the right hon. gentleman had pursued his theory with a little too much eagerness. He made this remark without at all intending to charge all the evils of the country on that theory; which, however, he believed could no longer be pursued, unless a reduction of taxation was effected that would enable our merchants to compete with foreigners in the various markets of the world. We had been engaged in a conflict with the whole of Europe, which had brought great burthens upon us, and had so augmented the national taxation, that every interest in the country was fettered, and in a condition that ought to excite great alarm. It was far from his disposition to desire to debar foreigners from a participation in the benefits of British commerce; but, in the first instance, we ought to look with caution into our own affairs. We ought to look at the means by which this country had arrived at the pitch of grandeur it had attained; and then turn to our present enormous expenditure, and endeavour to ascertain how the career of prosperity was to be maintained with an expenditure of nearly sixty millions a year.Mr. Haldimand
11711170116911681167quâ non,1166gravamen1165116411637,9745,186In the year 1825
7,9745,186In the year 18256,9783,540In the year 1824
6,9783,540In the year 18246,1873,016In the year 1823
6,1873,016In the year 18235,3863,097In the year 1822
5,3863,097In the year 18226,3582,819In the year 1821
6,3582,819In the year 1821Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.
Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.
7,9745,186In the year 1825
7,9745,186In the year 18256,9783,540In the year 1824
6,9783,540In the year 18246,1873,016In the year 1823
6,1873,016In the year 18235,3863,097In the year 1822
5,3863,097In the year 18226,3582,819In the year 1821
6,3582,819In the year 1821Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.
Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.1162116111601159115811571156115511541153115211511150fifthwith Asia, Africa, and America.1149CommercefourthEuropean trade.thirdsecond1148First, the Fisheries.Thirdly;Secondly;First;114711461145*** rose, and spoke, in substance, as follows:11711170116911681167quâ non,1166gravamen1165116411637,9745,186In the year 1825
7,9745,186In the year 18256,9783,540In the year 1824
6,9783,540In the year 18246,1873,016In the year 1823
6,1873,016In the year 18235,3863,097In the year 1822
5,3863,097In the year 18226,3582,819In the year 1821
6,3582,819In the year 1821Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.
Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.
7,9745,186In the year 1825
7,9745,186In the year 18256,9783,540In the year 1824
6,9783,540In the year 18246,1873,016In the year 1823
6,1873,016In the year 18235,3863,097In the year 1822
5,3863,097In the year 18226,3582,819In the year 1821
6,3582,819In the year 1821Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.
Ships of all other Nations.British Ships.1162116111601159115811571156115511541153115211511150fifthwith Asia, Africa, and America.1149CommercefourthEuropean trade.thirdsecond1148First, the Fisheries.Thirdly;Secondly;First;114711461145***Mr. Huskisson
1189 concluded by moving for the following returns:—1189Mr. Huskisson
l.,d.s.s.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.1194l.l., observed, that as he had recently presented a petition to that House from a body of persons whose interests were intimately connected with the subject under consideration, he would beg to be allowed to say a few words in elucidation of their case. Arguing from the documents already before the House, he must say, that in many important points he differed most materially from the right hon. the President of the Board of Trade. By those documents it appeared, that the foreign tonnage which had entered the port of London had doubled in the last three years. What was the relative state of our exports and imports? In the years 1824 and 1825, the imports to Great Britain from Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and Russia, increased to the value of 243,151l.,d.s.s.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.1194l.l.,Sir M. W. Ridley
1137 disclaimed any intention of wounding the feelings of the landed interest; but he thought no class of persons had a right to hold themselves above the free observation of the members of that House. In the publications in defence of the Corn-laws, he had always seen them represented as being intended for the benefit of the landed interest. He had no hesitation in avowing, that he had changed his opinion with respect to those laws. He remembered, that in the first speech he had made on this subject, he had stated it as his opinion, that it was essential to the independence of the country, that it should raise all its food within
1137Lord Milton
s.s.s. said, that the gentlemen who had spoken seemed to have withdrawn their opposition, in the hope that they should be thereby the better enabled to fight their battle. Whether this might be the case he could not tell; but he begged to guard himself against being supposed one of those who thought 65s.s.s.Lord Milton
1204 said, he did not object to the report being brought up, but he rose to take the last opportunity of saying one word against the measure. He should not give any opposition to it in its present stage, because such opposition would be useless and vexatious. He submitted to the superior wisdom of his majesty's government backed by a large respectable and powerful majority in the House; and he could not disguise from his view, that the measure had also been supported elsewhere in a manner equally strong, and equally setting at nought any thing like opposition. He should for these reasons feel exceedingly blameable in his own estimation, if he attempted to give one moment's further opposition. He considered, however, that all his majesty's ministers had given a pledge that nothing that had been done in consequence of the present exigency would prevent this or the other branch of the legislature from entertaining any measure for the general adjustment of the Corn-laws—that nothing which might now be passed into a law as to the mode of opening the ports, or as to fixing duties, should prejudice the general question when that was brought before the House. He took that opportunity of entering his protest against any thing of the sort being drawn into a precedent; and he did this in spite of all the intimidations he had received from quarters which he despised from the very bottom of his heart, and which intimidations he knew had been sent to him in order to stop the honest expression of his opinions, which he had presumed to utter in the discharge of the duty which he owed to the country at large. No degree of intimidation, however gross, personal, or dangerous it might be, should ever deter him from the discharge of his conscientious duty. He was, therefore, the more earnest in entering this solemn protest, from his having been personally insulted by individuals, whose menaces he had treated with the most profound contempt. He therefore hoped the government would recollect that they had given such a pledge, and as the parliament had thrown the responsibility on them, he trusted they would use their
1204Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. baronet, he had no hesitation in saying, upon the subject of the pledge which the hon. baronet had understood his majesty's government to have given, as to the mode in which the proceedings of this year might operate on the decision of the House in the next, that he could assure the hon. baronet he thought it would be the shabbiest course any government could by possibility adopt, if they were to depart one iota from the pledge they had given, and which he was quite ready to repeat; namely, that the decision the House came to on this occasion as to this measure, ought not, and could not, be taken to prejudge, in any way, the fair discussion of the main question, whenever it should be brought under consideration. With respect to what the hon. baronet had said of intimidations applied to him, he was sure it was quite consistent with the hon. baronet's character, to treat such intimidations with the contempt they deserved.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 considered that the present measures could do no harm, because they would be inoperative. One of the evil consequences flowing from these discussions, was to generate a belief that the interests of the agriculturists and the manufacturers were opposed; whereas, in fact, they were one and the same. If he yielded his consent to the bringing up the report now, it was certainly most reluctantly. The landed gentlemen would have consulted their own interests by having opposed the measure in every, stage; and if he saw any encouragement, he would divide the House now.Sir R. Heron
 said, he concurred in the general measures of his majesty's government, because he considered them characterised by wisdom and candour; but the present measure he considered unwise and uncalled for, and he regretted he had not pushed his opposition to it still further, in order that the county which he had the honour to represent, might have had an opportunity of petitioning the House on the subject. A meeting was, in fact, held for that purpose on Saturday, but, in consequence of the bill having passed through the committee, their object had been defeated.Mr. H. Sumner
122912281227122612251224122312221221122012191218121712161215121412131212121112101209120812071206 rose, in pursuance of a notice which he had given on a former night, for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill to carry into effect the measures recommended in the Report of a Committee of Inquiry into the Practice of the Court of Chancery. He should premise that it was not as a member of that commission that he now rose: the duty of bringing forward the bill he was prepared with, had devolved upon him, merely in consequence of his professional situation. The House, however, must be aware, that it would be necessary for him —after the various allusions which had been made by members to this subject, and the various debates which had occurred upon it—to enter at some length into the consideration of the manner in which the commissioners in question had performed their duty; the particular facts to which they had directed their attention; and the nature of the measures (the general measures, he meant) which they had recommended in their report, for the adoption of parliament. The House would also feel, that in detailing those measures, he must of necessity be led into much detail—perhaps of a dry and uninteresting nature, if considered by itself—but if honourable gentlemen considered that that detail was connected with one of the very highest judicial establishments in this kingdom—an establishment involving so much of the property, and so many of the interests of the whole community—he was persuaded that they would bear with him for a time, however dry such a detail might prove. Many observations had, at different times, been made, in that House, as well as out of it, upon the constitution of the commission to which he was now referring. It had even been said, by one individual, that nothing good could reasonably be expected from a commission which was composed of such parties as this. Indeed, in that House it had been affirmed, for he had heard it, that it was perfectly ridiculous to anticipate any good result from a commission so constituted. If, in an inquiry into the proceedings of an establishment thus closely affecting many
122912281227122612251224122312221221122012191218121712161215121412131212121112101209120812071206The Attorney-General
1246124512441243l.d.s.124212411240 contended, that the commissioners had done their duty in the report which had been made to his majesty, and laid upon the table of that House. He could, as one of those commissioners, bear testimony to the diligence with which his colleagues had applied themselves to the subjects referred to their consideration, and had discharged the important trust reposed in their skill and judgment. So persuaded was he that they had performed that duty con-
1246124512441243l.d.s.124212411240The Solicitor-General
1255l.12541253125212511250 wished to say a few words on this question, but the moderate tone in which it had been discussed, and the considerate forbearance which had been evinced by the hon. and learned
1255l.12541253125212511250Mr. Secretary Peel
l.,1258l.12571256 said, that any gentleman who considered the complexity of the subject which had been referred to the commissioners, could never have expected that they would give their unanimous support to 187 propositions, promoting great and important changes in a system which had now been pursued for more than a hundred and fifty years. It was more extraordinary that so many of them could conscientiously put their seal to such a report as they had presented, than that some of them should have differed from their colleagues on its details. Against this report it had been urged, that though the reforms which it recommended were beneficial, still they were ineffectual in destroying the delay so much complained of in the court of Chancery. It was likewise objected to the commissioners, that they had omitted to consider many important subjects, and particularly two, which, if they really had omitted to consider, they would have been guilty of a most pusillanimous dereliction of their duty. It had been said, that they had not dared to inquire whether any and what delay took place between the setting down of the cause and the hearing, and then between the final hearing and the judgment of the chancellor. Those points came within the direct terms of the commission; and, if the commissioners had shrunk from their investigation, they would have left unexamined the most important points on which they were directed to inquire. Now, he had to inform the House, that of the mass of evidence taken by the commissioners, part was still unprinted, and that part which would have proved beyond all dispute that they had attempted to elucidate these two points. The reason why it was not printed was, that it was given at the latter part of the inquiry—that it consisted principally of documents,—that those documents were only produced at the conclusion of the sittings, and that it had been found impossible as yet to get them into type. He would state the heads of those documents, and would then leave the House to judge-first, whether the commissioners had done their duty in inquiring; and secondly, whether the lord chancellor had done his duty with regard to the judgments he had given within the last three years. There was the cause-paper of the lord chancellor
l.,1258l.12571256Dr. Lushington
1268 said, that as a member of the commission, he begged to disclaim any intention of inquiring into or scrutinizing the conduct of the lord chancellor. If such a power had been imposed upon the commission, he would have objected to it as unconstitutional; for it would have subjected him and the commission to the necessity of deciding upon ex parte evidence against the lord chancellor; or to the alternative, equally objectionable, of deciding upon the testimony of the lord chancellor, in reply to the criminatory evidence adduced against him. However, it was no part of the
1268Mr. R. Smith
 intimated, across the table, that he had not been present at any part of the examination of Mr. Hamilton. Had he been present, he should not have been disposed to permit some things which that witness volunteered in evidence.The Solicitor-General
1271 defended the conduct of the commissioners; nine hundred and ten pages of whose report had already appeared, and nine hundred and ten more were on their way—a pretty considerable report, he thought. The question for consideration was, whether what the commissioners had done was not sufficient to remove the existing arrear of causes, and to prevent the accumulation of causes in future. In looking to this part of the case, they must observe that, in 1822, the arrear of causes was one hundred and five, and that in 1826, the arrear amounted to one hundred and nine, making an increase of no more than four causes in four years. There was reasonable ground to believe, therefore, that the measures proposed by
1271Mr. Tyndal
 thought, that the report of the commissioners would, if acted upon, have the effect of giving more business to the minor courts, and, of course, of increasing the number of appeals to the lord chancellor. With respect to that noble lord, he thought, and he assured the House that he spoke sincerely, that his lordship was placed in a most awkward and difficult situation. Insinuations had been thrown out that the causes of delay between final hearing and decision had been touched upon by the commissioners, and that the inquiry was found to be by no means satisfactory. He meant to give no opinion as to whether this inquiry ought, or ought not, to be gone into; but he was sure that every friend of the noble lord had to regret that the matter was left in this undecided and unsatisfactory state.Mr. Abercromby
12671266126512641263126212611260 said, that as he was quite ready to agree, that it would be better to allow the bills proposed by his learned friend to be printed and considered before they pronounced an opinion upon this subject, and as he was aware that they would have many other and better opportunities of investigating every thing connected with the question in detail, he would not have trespassed on the time of the House, by any observations, had it not been that he could not allow the impression respecting the report of the commissioners, contained in the two last speeches addressed to them, to go forth to the world without some kind of contradiction or explanation. The effect of those speeches would be indeed to propagate a delusion which he was most anxious to avoid. He wished to avoid any thing like personal reflection in speaking upon the court of Chancery, and he agreed in so far most readily with his hon. and learned friend, the member for Lincoln, that in such matters they should look upon every thing rather as a subject of general discussion than individual reflection. With such a feeling he would argue the case; and he thought he could not commence better, or lead to a better understanding of the course he meant to pursue, than to quote an extract from a work, which he understood to be the production of a noble and learned lord, of high reputation. In it he says, that it was advisable to work as much as possible prospectively, because the remedies which were to be provided, were to benefit hereafter; and it was their duty to look rather to what could be done for the future, than to complain of the past, yet it was necessary still to examine affairs a little retrospectively, that they might not, in their proceedings, impute blame to individuals, for committing evils which were inherent in the system, and which individual exertions could not remedy or avoid. In attending to the course here laid down, he did not apprehend that he could be supposed to touch upon any thing personally offensive or contrary to his disposition to avoid allusion to the conduct of the noble person who presided over the court. He would not, therefore, say, that the commissioners slumbered over certain matters subjected to their consideration any more than he would say that the lord chancellor had slumbered in abstaining for the five and twenty years he had presided over the court to adopt
12671266126512641263126212611260Mr. Brougham
1239l.l.,l.,l.1238l.l.1237v.l.123612351234l.l.1233123212311230 said, it had never been his intention to anticipate the motion of the attorney-general, and by several postponements, not unsuitable to the topic of discussion, he had shown that, he was willing to concede precedence to the clear and luminous statement just delivered. Through that statement he should not follow the hon. and learned gentleman; but he could not avoid observing, in the outset, that although his hon. and learned friend had taken a wide range over the report of the commissioners, he had omitted all explanation of the immediate object of the bill. For any thing that appeared to the contrary, the reforms to which he had alluded, these exploded and ridiculous errors, these continued abuses, the bare statement of which excited ridicule and contempt, might have been amended by a simple order of the court. The lord Chancellor, the court of Chancery, and the Commissioners, would, no doubt, by themselves, or by some representative of the whole body, return most hearty thanks to the attorney-general for the gorgeous panegyric which he had bestowed upon them. He (Mr. Williams) would, however, show what they had done, and what they had omitted to do; and then it would appear how far they had ascertained whether the courts of equity, as at present constituted, were capable of administering justice, in the manner in which it ought to be administered. The attorney-general had said, that the delays which had been so much clamoured about, were fancied grievances, and had no real existence; yet he trusted he should be able to show that those grievances were not fanciful, and that the commissioners had not done enough to silence the clamour that was raised all over the country against the practices which prevailed in the courts of equity. Still he hoped the report would do some good; and when good was done, no matter from what quarter it came. The people now did not look to the individual who did an act, but to the act done; and they were ready to give their just applause to any individual for the good he had done. Whatever good this report might do, it was all to be ascribed to an eminent individual, who really monopolized all the merit of the act. The credit of originating this inquiry was wholly due
1239l.l.,l.,l.1238l.l.1237v.l.123612351234l.l.1233123212311230Mr. John Williams
124912481247 said, that as many other gentlemen were desirous of delivering their sentiments on this subject, he should not have presented himself to the House on this occasion, but, from the line of conduct which he had so frequently followed with regard to these matters at former periods, if he remained silent now, it would have been imagined that he entirely approved of the report of the commissioners. He would admit that that report did possess some merit; but he could not avoid thinking that it had fallen far short of the object which it ought to have effected, and that it had left very much undone which it ought to have performed. That the commissioners had diligently investigated and examined into the subject, he would not deny. But, was that all which they ought to have done? He wished the House to look to the evidence of Mr. Shadwell, a most able Chancery barrister. When this gentleman was asked by the commissioners, whether he considered the judges of the court competent to get through the business of it, his reply was, that he was persuaded three angels could not do it. Yet the commissioners had entirely passed this matter over. They ought to have recommended the separation of the bankruptcy business from the great seal. He was well aware, however, that lord Eldon would rather part with his life than permit this separation to take place. He himself had had repeated conversations with the noble lord on this subject, and had sat on two committees relating to it. The opinions of these committees had been nearly unanimous. Sir Samuel Romilly, indeed, had doubted; but still, even he had said, that some measure ought to be adopted, to relieve the chancellor from the weight of the bankruptcy business. Besides, did the chancellor perform the bankruptcy business, except in the cases
124912481247Mr. M. A. Taylor
1270 said, he was sure Mr. Hamilton was incapable of saying any thing untrue, or of resorting to any discreditable trick. The passage which he had read from his evidence was one, in his opinion, which satisfactorily shewed, that the character of the lord chancellor, for despatch, was not so clearly established as his right hon. friend would induce the House to believe. The mem-
1270Mr. Denman
1269 could not concur with the hon. gentleman who spoke last, that there was any thing unconstitutional in scrutinizing and inquiring into the conduct of the lord chancellor. Nay, he even thought it the most important and necessary part of their duty; for they were appointed to inquire into the causes of the delay and expenses attending suits in the court of Chancery. If these suits were occasioned in any degree by the conduct of the judge presiding in that court, it was their duty to report it to the House. It was alleged, that those delays materially and principally occurred in consequence of delays which, by the efficient discharge of his duty, the lord chancellor might have prevented. If such were the fact, it ought to have been stated in the report. That there was sufficient ground for entertaining this opinion, would be found by the evidence of Mr. Hamilton, an extract from which he would read, shewing a comparison of the delays which cases met with in the respective courts of the lord chancellor, the vice-chancellor, and the master of the Rolls. The evidence met with some interruption, he believed, by some master in Chancery. The extract was to the following effect:—1269Mr. Denman
12751274 said, that the same delicacy which had hitherto closed the mouths of his hon. friends upon the subject of Greece, had also influenced him not to make any public appeal to ministers, the reply to which might embarrass the march of their policy towards that country. Judging from some words which had dropped from a noble lord, in another place, as well as from other circumstances, he had reason to believe that some measures on behalf of the Greeks were in the contemplation of government, and he was aware that any public declaration of their policy might be prejudicial to that sacred cause. With respect to the great blow which had been lately struck against the Greeks, it was to him, as it must be to every Englishman, a subject of the deepest regret; but he could not say that he despaired from that circumstance, of the fortunes of that heroic people. Missolonghi had certainly fallen; but it was not the last hold of the Greeks, for
12751274Mr. Hobhouse
s1278dsdsdsssdsdsss rose to present a petition from lieut. col. Bird complaining of the changes occasioned in the currency of the Cape of Good Hope by large issues of paper-money by the colonial government. The hon. member entered into a description of the various changes which had been effected in the currency of that colony by the Dutch governors, whilst it was in the possession of the United Provinces. By the proclamation of sir David Baird the value of the rix-dollar, which formed the currency of the Cape, had been fixed at 4s1278dsdsdsssdsdsssMr. Baring
1279 agreed that the subject of the petition was an important one. The charge which the hon. gentleman had made against the government was so serious, that it required a full explanation of all the circumstances of the case, which could not be entered into at that moment. When the time should serve, he should be ready
1279The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was not his hon. friend's fault that this petition had not been presented before, for application had been previously made by the petitioner, both to the under Secretary of State for the colonies, and to the Secretary of the Treasury, for compensation. This was a question of very great importance to the Cape of Good Hope; and he did trust that it would be considered with as much favour by his majesty's government as a similar case from another colony had been, some time ago, when earl Bathurst, with great consideration and humanity, referred the petitioners to the Privy Council, who rescinded that part of their former order under which the parties had been aggrieved. As to what the chancellor of the Exchequer had said about its not being obligatory on the government to pay the paper-money in circulation at the Cape, that was a declaration which he had heard with the utmost astonishment. He could not conceive it possible that the government could have issued, and received money for these notes, without holding themselves bound in common honesty to pay them. That, however, the right hon. gentleman seemed to look upon as a matter, not of right, but of grace and favour.Dr. Lushington
dsds1282s said, that the learned civilian had clearly misunderstood his right hon. friend, who had merely, as he understood him, intended to say that the paper issued at the Cape did not purport to be convertible into money: and this, any hon. gentleman who happened to possess a bank-note of the kind in question, would discover to be the case. The fact was, that paper had never been at par, except upon two occasions, when large portions of it were called in and paid off by the Dutch government, who immediately afterwards issued a larger; amount than that which they had cancelled. The object of the measures, the Operation of which was complained of by the petitioner, was to introduce British coinage into all the colonies, in lieu of the various descriptions of paper which at present circulated therein. In some cases the paper was that of a former government, issued previously to our possession of the colony; in some it had been so issued under circumstances of great embarrassment, in others the absurdity had been resorted to of striking out a large hole in the centre of a Spanish dollar, and then it was declared by proclamation, that the piece so deteriorated in value should pass for one shilling more than it would have done if it had been entire. It must be evident from these facts, that the measure determined on by government was not only a proper but a necessary one. It was an act of justice to the colony to substitute a metallic currency in lieu of a paper one subject to such ruinous fluctuations. The Treasury had, previously to enforcing the introduction of the metallic currency, bestowed great pains in considering on the manner in which the clause should be brought about so as to produce the least possible inconvenience to the colonies. If government were called upon to pay 4dsds1282sMr. Herries
sds said, he did not think the hon. member had seen the essential points of the complaint. He agreed generally as to the policy of establishing a metallic currency in the colony; but such a step ought to have been preceded by a measure something similar to what might be termed an equitable adjustment; but though he thought the establishment of a metallic currency a correct proceeding, he considered government wrong in taking the extreme end of the line to fix the value of the rix-dollar. It fluctuated from 1sdsMr. Baring
12841283 observed, that
12841283Mr. Secretary Canning
1325132413231322132113201319131813171316131513141313131213111310 rose and said:—Mr. Speaker; after the very long details into which the hon. and learned gentleman has felt it necessary in the discharge of his public duty to enter, I feel satisfied that the House will indulge me in a patient hearing of those statements which my duty equally requires me to make, not, perhaps, in general contradiction to the hon. and learned gentleman, with respect to some of the details to which he has at such length adverted, but for the purpose of placing the subject in a very different point of view from that in which it has been exhibited by the hon. gentleman.1325132413231322132113201319131813171316131513141313131213111310Mr. Wilmot Horton
13311330132913281327 said, that three years had now elapsed since the resolutions of that House had been passed, and the order in council issued, yet not a single colony had, up to the present day, taken one step towards adopting the principles recommended to them by parliament and the Crown. The House was, however, told to wait till another session, in the expectation that these colonial legislatures, which had hitherto done nothing, might at last manifest signs of repentance, and, in good earnest, begin to carry the wishes of government and the country into execution. How could they, however, expect that any mere declarations of their opinions would have any effect, when they found that persons of the highest character and the greatest power in this country actually, by their conduct and expressions, gave a countenance to the resistance which the colonists on all occasions offered to the measures of the abolitionists? If he was, indeed, to judge from what was said in another place, he might assert that even some of his majesty's ministers held sentiments different from those which others of the same ministry maintained in that House; and that the utterance of those sentiments confirmed the colonists in the opposition which had been the subject of complaint, and protracted the time when a final amelioration of the condition of the slaves could be effected. Not two months ago, these opinions had been made public; and lest they might suppose that there was any thing in the language or the circumstances which could possibly create a misconception, he would read the one and the other; and when they saw how different the language and the feeling of
13311330132913281327Dr. Lushington
1341134013391338133713361335133413331332 said, that no man would be found to stand up as the bold, uncompromising advocate of slavery, to defend the same as an abstract principle; but, in making this admission, he must at the same time declare, that no arguments had been or could be advanced to justify the indiscreet haste with which some hon. members would proceed to the adoption of measures calculated to produce a very injurious effect upon the whole property vested in the West-Indian colonies. He, in common with the general body of planters, would be happy to follow that course of proceedings which would lead to any real amelioration of the condition of the negroes; but the same must be traced out slowly and cautiously, and, in order to produce certain and beneficial effects, must be undertaken with a due regard to the capability of the negroes for receiving those advantages which it might be proposed to confer on them.1341134013391338133713361335133413331332Mr. Bernal
1365escape,way out ofThisdirectly1364"To keep the word of promise to the ear, And break it to the hope;"bona fide1363136213611360135913581357 rose and addressed the House to the following effect:—1365escape,way out ofThisdirectly1364"To keep the word of promise to the ear, And break it to the hope;"bona fide1363136213611360135913581357Mr. Secretary Canning
 rose, and said he wished to leave the question entirely in the hands of government, and would therefore move, as an amendment, the previous question.Sir T. Ackland
1352135113501349134813471346**1345l1344ll13431342 stated, that, having concurred in the unanimous vote by which the task of carrying into effect the resolutions passed by the House in 1823, was imposed upon his majesty's government; and not seeing any thing in the course pursued by them which was calculated in any degree to impair the confidence then reposed in them by the House; nor having heard from them any intimation of a wish to call for the intervention of parliament to aid them in the performance of that duty, he could not but consider the present motion as of the same character with those measures which, while their professed object was to strengthen the hands of government, were, in point of fact, as had been stated by his right hon. friend the Secretary of State for Foreign Affair, calculated only to embarrass the government in the execution of the already sufficiently difficult task which had been devolved upon them;—and, upon these general grounds, without going into any of the details of the question, he should have felt justified in refusing his assent to the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman. But as that hon. and learned gentleman had thought fit to comment at great length and with much severity upon the conduct of the colonial legislatures, though he (Mr. Ellis) would not at that late hour follow him into those details, nor tempt him to execute his threat of bringing forward that reserve of further details which he held in terrorem over the House, he trusted that the House, considering his connexion with the colonies, and the part which he had taken upon this question, would afford him their indulgence in offering some few observations upon the proceedings of those legislatures.1352135113501349134813471346**1345l1344ll13431342Mr. C. R. Ellis
sds denied the doctrine of the Treasury, with respect to the analogy between the Cape currency and that of this country. The issue was made by an English governor, and the government obtained for their notes at from 2sdsMr. Ellice
 thought that the hon. baronet should have given notice of his intention to make such a motion. If such a return should be ordered, he should feel it necessary to move for a similar return of the rights enjoyed by Catholics in Protestant countries under similar circumstances.Mr. Canning
 as we understood, said he had intended to conclude with making that amendment himself.Mr. Canning,
1366 then replied. He maintained, that slavery had existed, not in accordance with the principles of the British constitution, but in spite of them. So it was with respect to the Christian religion. Could any man deny that it was most unchristian to hold a fellow being in slavery—to treat him as a brute beast, and, at the instigation of capricious cruelty or sordid avarice, to tear the very flesh from his bones? Such a system was essentially repugnant to Christianity, and could, by no process of sophistry, be reconciled with its mild and benignant spirit. The right hon. Secretary had represented
1366Mr. Brougham
1326 said, he had no intention of charging the hon. member with being a partisan, in the sense in which he seemed to have understood the word. All he meant to impute to the hon. member was,
1326Mr. Brougham
 rose to bring forward his motion. He first desired, that the following resolutions of the House,-agreed to on May 15th, 1823, should be read:—Mr. Brougham
130913081307130613051304l1303130213011300l1299lll129812971296sll12951294129312921291129012891288128712861285 then observed, that at the time the resolutions which had been just read were adopted by the House, the only doubt which existed was, whether they went far enough in propounding measures, or recognizing the necessity of measures for carrying into effect the scheme of policy which the almost unanimous opinion and sentiments of the country suggested, or offered to the House; but all men agreed, and declared by their votes upon that occasion, that this was the least measure of justice that ought to be meted out to the body of the people in the colonies. His majesty's government proceeded, after these resolutions were passed, to take steps for the purpose of recommending to the colonial legislatures in certain colonies, the adoption of measures calculated to effect the object in view, and other steps were taken, calculated to carry these principles into effect in the colonies not subject to the legislative power. It should be his object on the present occasion to call the attention of the House to the manner in which the suggestion of the king's government had
130913081307130613051304l1303130213011300l1299lll129812971296sll12951294129312921291129012891288128712861285Mr. Brougham
dsdsds1280 said, he wished to call the attention of the House to what he could not but consider a very great injustice. He meant, the situation of those persons who were creditors of the Orphan Chamber, at the time of the capture of the Cape.
dsdsds1280Mr. Hudson Gurney
dsds asked, whether he was to understand, from the hon. gentleman, that the creditors, previous to the capitulation, were to be paid at the rate of 1dsdsMr. H. Gurney
 said, he could not permit them to be disposed of without making an observation upon a paper which had been pretty generally circulated amongst the members. He meant a representation of the circumstances in which Mr. Lee, the high constable of Westminster, was placed, from his being constantly in attendance upon the House, during the whole time of their sitting, without receiving any salary or remuneration whatever. The case of this individual had been brought before them some years ago; and opposed by the hon. member for Corfe Castle, upon the ground that the office had been purchased from the dean and chapter, and possessed many advantages. It was not, however, consistent with the dignity of that House, or accordant with the principles of right and justice, that they should continue to receive the services of Mr. Lee without any compensation for the loss of his time and the neglect of his business.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 spoke for some time; but the cries of "question," and the loud coughing which prevailed, prevented our hearing more than that the hon. member was of opinion that, although all persons must rejoice that a church establishment had been sent out to the West-Indies, it would prove of no use, unless missionary exertions were also encouraged.Mr. Butterworth
 recommended the claim of Mr. Lee to the consideration of the House.Mr. M. A. Taylor
1277 said, that the motion which the hon. baronet had so unexpectedly brought forward, was one of a novel, and unprecedented description. It was a motion which called upon our different consuls to exercise duties which had never been supposed to belong to their office, and which, if they did exercise, would give them a claim to additional emoluments from the country. From the extensive nature of the inquiry which the hon. baronet proposed to institute it was evident that they must peruse an enormous mass of legal documents, and wade through a great quantity of historical evidence, for which their previous habits might not have qualified them. Besides, the information which the hon. baronet wanted would, if obtained, only tend to raise a clamour in the country upon an argument that was totally false in itself, and which had never yet been incorporated with the discussion of the Catholic question. If the motion were good for any thing, it could only be for advocating some reciprocity of measures from the English government to its Catholic subjects, founded on the measures adopted by foreign Catholic governments to their Protestant subjects. Now, if the conduct of Roman Catholic governments had been most execrable in this respect, it was only a stronger argument for an enlightened government like that of England to give to its Catholic subjects those privileges which had been withheld by the bigotry of less intelligent governments. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would pause before he gave his sanction to this motion; at any rate, he hoped the House would pause before it allowed the policy of England to take its colour from that of
1277Mr. Denman
1356135513541353 rose amidst loud calls for a divison. He began by saying, that if it was the wish of the House that the debate should there stop, he would instantly sit down, but he hoped, nay, he entreated, that at the close of the labours of the session, when perhaps those hon. gentlemen whom he saw around him, would meet together for the last time for business this parliament—they would not separate, leaving this most important question unfinished; or suffer it to be disposed otherwise than as having received the seal of the most solemn and impartial investigation. It was to him no small satisfaction that so patient and attentive a hearing had been already given to the two gentlemen most closely connected with the colonies, and that they had been uninterrupted in the tenour of those arguments which their honour and their interests prompted them to advance as reasons why this resolution should not be adopted. The impress of impartiality,
1356135513541353Mr. Denman
1273 envied the feelings of his hon. friend in presenting such a petition. He heartily wished that there could be an expression of public sentiment throughout the country upon this Subject, which might convince the world that we
1273Mr. W. Smith
1276 rose to move for information, to the production of which he understood the right hon. gentleman the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs had no objection, and to which, he trusted the House would have as little objection. He would not, therefore, detain the House further than by stating the object of it, namely, to obtain through his majesty's ministers and consuls in those countries in which the Roman Catholic religion is dominant, information
1276Sir R. H. Inglis
 observed, that he did not conceive that any objection could have been made to this proposition, as it was only a sequel to several motions made ten or twelve years ago for the purpose of obtaining information relative to the Catholic religion.Sir R. Inglis
1272 rose to present a petition from White
1272Sir R. H. Inglis
 said, that the time was now come when some step ought to be taken by England, in order to save a Christian people from extermination. The cruel and inhuman manner in which the Turks carried on the war against the Greeks was evident from this circumstance—that the Greeks preferred sacrificing themselves along with their wives and children to submitting to the degrading captivity which they must suffer if they fell into the hands of the Turks. He was sorry to say, that notwithstanding the heroic resolution with which many Greeks had freed themselves by death from the degrading brutalities of their captors, some of them had been exposed for sale ac the price of 50 and 100 dollars a head in the market at Alexandria. He lamented that French officers should have degraded themselves and their country by entering into the service of the Pacha of Egypt, and by fighting against the Greeks; but he lamented still more the impolitic law which prevented British subjects from embarking in the cause of Greece, and from showing their attachment to the sacred cause of freedom. He condemned the policy of the foreign enlistment bill, but praised the liberality with which ministers had exercised the powers it gave them.Sir R. Wilson
 said, he would take that opportunity of requesting an answer to the question which he had, on a former night, put to the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, as to whether it was the intention of government to propose any grant for the Relief of the Distressed Manufacturers. He repeated his question then, as he feared he should not on that evening have the legitimate opportunity of ascertaining the intention of the government through the motion of the hon. member for Coventry, which he supposed would not come on. He considered that the calamities under which the manufacturing districts were labouring were of a nature to justify the interference of parliament.Lord Milton
14051404 said, he did not, in the slightest degree, take any objection to the principles of the resolution, so far as it went to pledge the House to punish any gross case of bribery or corruption. He had always felt that it was the first duty of the House to proceed to remedy any abuses
14051404Mr. Wynn
 advocated the delay of the consideration of the resolutions until next session. The motion was one which was well worthy the consideration of the House; but it had not attracted a sufficient share of attention to enable members to vote with a due regard to all the bearings of the question. The Grenville act, though its operation was to be but temporary, had excited great discussion; and he did hope that less consideration would not be given to such an important measure as the present. Besides which, the resolutions were of so important a character, that full effect could not be given to them but by a legislative enactment, which could not take place till the next parliament. He did not consider the last day for business a fit moment to bring forward resolutions which were to bind future parliaments. He, therefore, trusted that the noble lord would not press his motion to a division.Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, in explanation, that after a lapse of fourteen days from the return of a member, no petition could regularly be entertained, impeaching the validity of such a return; but still the House had the power of investigating any charge specifically alleging a corrupt distribution of money to the voters; and it was a charge which it would be incumbent on the House to enter into, as it involved a gross breach of privilege; and if it were to be made out to the satisfaction of the House, the House would consult its dignity by ordering the attorney-general to prosecute the offenders.Mr. Wynn
 was surprised at the most extraordinary assertion made by the hon. member for Newton. That bribery and payment for votes took place in many districts was very probable; but it was too bad to say that it existed in all. For himself, he could assure the hon. member, that he had been three times returned for the city of London, and that he never paid either in meal or in malt; nay, that he never expended a single shilling in coach-hire or otherwise towards his election. He had been frequently applied to by out-voters as to whether he would pay their expenses to town, but his uniform answer was, that he never paid one shilling of the expenses of his election, not even so much as a bowl of punch, the price of which, perhaps, the hon. member would understand. The only expense incurred at his election arose from advertisements, and the hire of a committee-room for a few days. He did not think such an assertion could have come from any but the representative of a corrupt borough.Mr. Alderman Wood
 denied that he had ever paid for his seat in any way. His committee sat every Tuesday for the last three months, and if the hon. member for Newton would only pay them a visit next Tuesday, they would give him such a lesson about purity of election as would induce him to change his opinions.Mr. F. Palmer
 said, he could put his hand to his heart, and declare that he had never resorted to any means of getting into that House of which he could possibly be ashamed. However, as he was told that practices did exist at elections, which ought to be reprobated, he thought it his duty to express his disapprobation of them by supporting this resolution.Mr. Grenfell
 brought up the Report of the Select Committee on the Banking System of Scotland and Ireland. On the motion, that it be received,Mr. Secretary Peel
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1432l.l.14311430142914281427l.l.l.l.l.1426l.l.l.1425 said, that in rising to address himself to this subject, he felt that he was placed in a most embarrassing situation, owing to the extraordinary manner in which it had been introduced by the right hon. gentleman. It should be recollected, that the report which the right hon. gentleman had made the subject of remark, was not in the possession of a single member; neither was any individual, except those who attended the committee, acquainted with the evidence on which that committee had arrived at a certain conclusion; and when this was the acknowledged fact, was it not utterly impossible for those to whom the right hon. gentleman had made his appeal, to come to any fair or prudent judgment? The committee had continued their inquiry until a very late period of the session. They had laboured until no more time remained than was sufficient for the consideration of that evidence on which they had formed their judgment; and he hoped the House would suspend their opinion until that evidence was laid before them. He never sat on a committee that was more disposed to listen to every representation. He never sat on a committee that was more disposed to cast aside every consideration, and every proposition, except what was connected
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1432l.l.14311430142914281427l.l.l.l.l.1426l.l.l.1425Mr. Secretary Peel
1433 said, that he went into the committee with a full persuasion of the extreme absurdity of having one set of principles regarding the currency for England, and another set for Scotland, and he had heard nothing, in the course of the inquiry, that had altered his opinion. Every position in the report was in favour of the general principles the House had adopted for this country, but the con-
1433Mr. Abercromby
 "Not then, only. I affirm, that this state of things existed during the very last year."Mr. Abercromby,
14351434 continued, he did not dispute that. He stated a general proposition, which he knew was equally applicable to both countries. A great deal had been said of the loss occasionally sustained by the English labourer, by the failure of a country bank; but he was convinced that the Scotch labourer suffered a much more severe loss by the depreciation of the currency, resulting from over-issues, because this loss was of longer continuance. There could be no doubt
14351434Mr. Abercromby
 was of opinion, that a currency founded on a metallic basis, was the only one on which the country could rely for security.Mr. Robertson
1440 thought, that a great deal of injustice might have been avoided, if an inquiry had been entered into sooner; but all inquiry was, in the first instance, refused. The true requisite of a currency was security, and that was not to be obtained by abolishing paper-money altogether; for, if that was
1440Mr. Alderman Heygate
 thought, that the bankers of England had reason to complain that a committee of inquiry had not been granted, before their circulation was limited by the alteration in the currency. They were as much entitled to that favour as the Scotch banks. With respect to the Bank of England, he thought it had many difficulties to encounter, before the establishment of the branch banks; but these difficulties it had laudably endeavoured to surmount; and he hoped, that before the next session those banks would be in operation, much to the advantage of the public.Mr. Cripps
1444 expressed his firm conviction, that it would be impossible to keep faith with the public creditor, and at the same time to continue a metallic currency. The only way to support such a currency would be, to reduce taxation; and he for one would vote for such reduction, without reference to any consideration of whether or not the reduction would prevent faith being kept with the public creditor.1444Mr. Maxwell
 said, that the Scotch were perfectly right in preferring their own system of banking to that of England. No complaint had been made against the Scotch system of banking; no overtrading, no rash speculation had been attributed to that system, and no failures had occurred in Scotland in consequence of its being adopted. That system had given the greatest satisfaction to the trading interest of Scotland, and to the country at large. It would, therefore, have been both unjust and impolitic to interfere with it. England was differently circumstanced. An alteration in England was an act of necessity; but in Scotland, the present system of banking having given satisfaction for so long a period, there was no necessity whatever for a change. It ought always to be recollected by those who considered the subject, that in England they were only returning to the system which had once universally prevailed, and which had been interrupted by a succession of circumstances; but in Scotland it had been always the same, and with it they had gone on advancing in power and prosperity. If a paper circulation enjoyed the confidence of the people, he, for one, would always support it.Mr. W. Gordon
1410 in reply, thanked the hon. member for Newton, for having made a speech so well calculated to support his resolutions. If corruption at elections was so general, as to be supposed by the hon. member universal, there needed no stronger argument in favour of the course which he called upon the House to pursue. He wished the hon. member had attended the last meeting of the electors of Westminster, and they would have shown him that the people only sought able and honest representa-
1410Lord J. Russell,
 said, that there were certainly other modes than the one he proposed for correcting the practice of bribery; but, in spite of such modes, it was notorious that bribery was practised with impunity: it was therefore evident, that other remedies ought to be adopted. The resolutions did not pledge the House to any thing dangerous, for it would be in the option of any member hereafter to object to them. As to his bringing forward the motion in the next session of parliament, he was by no means certain of having the honour of sitting in the new parliament.Lord J. Russell
"3. That this House will not appoint such select committee so long as any trial is pending before a select committee of this House to try the validity of the return, or so long as a day is named in the orders of this House for appointing a select committee to try the validity of the return, for the borough, cinque port, or place, to which the petition refers.""2. That at the hour appointed by this House for taking such petition into consideration, this House will proceed to appoint a select committee to inquire into the truth of the matters contained in the said petition, and report the result of their inquiry to this House; and such select committee shall consist of thirteen members, to be chosen by lot, according to the directions, provisions, rules, and regulations, and subject to the exemptions for choosing forty-nine members by lot, contained in the various acts to regulate the trials of controverted elections, or returns of members to serve in parliament, so far as they are applicable thereto, and of two other members to be appointed by this House, out of the members then present in this House; and the thirteen members so chosen by lot, together with the two members to be so appointed by this House, shall be a select committee, and shall inquire into and try the matter of such petition, and shall report their opinion thereof, together with the evidence given before them, to this House.1403"1. That whenever a petition shall be presented to this House, after the expiration of the time allowed for presenting petitions against the validity of the return of any member of this House, by any person or persons, affirming that, at any time within eighteen calendar months previous to presenting the said petition, general bribery or corruption has been practised, for the purpose of procuring the election or return of any member or members to serve in parliament for any borough, cinque port, or place, and it shall appear to the said House, that such petition contains allegations sufficiently specific to require further investigation, this House will appoint a day and hour for taking the said petition into consideration,
14031402 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to bring forward certain resolutions framed for the purpose of repressing Bribery and Corruption at Elections. He had, he said, already brought the substance of these resolutions before the House; and as, on that occasion, the bill he introduced underwent a great deal of discussion, he should not think it necessary to enter at present into the same details which he had formerly stated. It might be remembered, that several objections were at first taken to that bill; and those he had endeavoured to obviate as much as possible in preparing his resolutions. Into the resolutions, in short, he had incorporated the matter of the ori-
"3. That this House will not appoint such select committee so long as any trial is pending before a select committee of this House to try the validity of the return, or so long as a day is named in the orders of this House for appointing a select committee to try the validity of the return, for the borough, cinque port, or place, to which the petition refers.""2. That at the hour appointed by this House for taking such petition into consideration, this House will proceed to appoint a select committee to inquire into the truth of the matters contained in the said petition, and report the result of their inquiry to this House; and such select committee shall consist of thirteen members, to be chosen by lot, according to the directions, provisions, rules, and regulations, and subject to the exemptions for choosing forty-nine members by lot, contained in the various acts to regulate the trials of controverted elections, or returns of members to serve in parliament, so far as they are applicable thereto, and of two other members to be appointed by this House, out of the members then present in this House; and the thirteen members so chosen by lot, together with the two members to be so appointed by this House, shall be a select committee, and shall inquire into and try the matter of such petition, and shall report their opinion thereof, together with the evidence given before them, to this House.1403"1. That whenever a petition shall be presented to this House, after the expiration of the time allowed for presenting petitions against the validity of the return of any member of this House, by any person or persons, affirming that, at any time within eighteen calendar months previous to presenting the said petition, general bribery or corruption has been practised, for the purpose of procuring the election or return of any member or members to serve in parliament for any borough, cinque port, or place, and it shall appear to the said House, that such petition contains allegations sufficiently specific to require further investigation, this House will appoint a day and hour for taking the said petition into consideration,
14031402Lord John Russell
 said, he had heard with surprise the declaration of the hon. member for Newton.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
s.s.s.s.14421441 said, he could not come to the same conclusion as the hon. member who had just taken his seat; namely, that the report of the committee was a sound and wise report. The principle on which their report was founded was unknown to him, and the report itself was diametrically opposed to what he expected, after the events which had occurred at the beginning of the session. He agreed with the member for Knaresborough, that if Scotland was to be exempted from the operation of the new measures, on account of the evidence which had been presented to the Committee, he could have produced evidence equally strong to exempt the bankers of the various counties of England; and he would appeal to the hon. member for Newton for evidence to except Norfolk from the operation of these bills. He asked, therefore, with the hon. member for Newcastle, why they had not heard evidence for England? Ministers had not acted with more propriety on this occasion than they would have done in making different Corn-bills for England, Ireland, and Scotland. They had been asked, what pledge the ministers had given that they would not pass the measures for England without making them embrace both Scotland and Ireland? He answered, that that pledge had, in effect, been given by the chancellor of the Exchequer, in the discussion that took place on the first proposition of the measure. He had then asked the right hon. gentleman, what was intended to be done with respect to England and Scotland? and he was answered, that it was
s.s.s.s.14421441Mr. Ellice
14241423l.l.14221421142014191418l.141714161415141414131412 rose, pursuant to notice, and said, that, as the report now brought up involved the consideration of that sys-
14241423l.l.14221421142014191418l.141714161415141414131412Mr. Tierney
 said, his hon. and learned friend did not pretend to deny, that giving money after elections, without any previous promise to that effect, was not within the bribery laws. Such a proceeding would certainly be an act of bribery, and it would, upon evidence, appear whether it was so far connected with the election as to affect the vote. He could not help thinking with the noble member for Yorkshire, that if the sanction of the House was given to these resolutions great good would be produced by them at the approaching general election. We were at this moment at a most delicate crisis. The machinery of corruption was already at work. Its sources were gathering; and the means were forging for carrying it into effect. At such a period the resolutions must be productive of much good. He called upon every hon. member, as he valued his own interest, to give his vote in favour of these resolutions, as the surest and most effectual means of preventing the engines of corruption from being turned against himself.Mr. Brougham
 said, he wished to be permitted to offer a word in explanation of what had been so much animadverted upon. In stating that there was no election free from the charges of corruption and bribery, he did not mean to pledge himself so much to their actual existence, as to their constructive existence under the interpretation of the bribery laws. In fact, as the laws stood now, no one knew what was, or was not bribery.Mr. H. Gurney
1408 said, he should certainly vote for the previous question, he could not conceive any thing more impracticable and inconvenient, than the machinery recommended in the noble lord's resolutions; nor any thing less likely to effect the object he had in view. In the place of these resolutions, he would recommend the noble lord to take in hand the revision of the Bribery and Treating acts, which, as they at present stood, were
1408Mr. Hudson Gurney
d.s.l.1443s.s.per se, said, he was convinced, that all the trading and commercial concerns of Scotland were so interwoven with her system of paper money, that distress and ruin would follow any attempt to break it up. He did not, however, present himself as a panegyrist of that system, d.s.l.1443s.s.per se,Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, he had had the honour of being returned six times to parliament for the town of Liverpool, and he solemnly declared, that upon no occasion had he been called upon to pay, directly or indirectly, a single shilling for his seat. He thought that declaration due to the people of Liverpool. At the same time he felt bound to give his support to the resolutions of the noble lord.General Gascoyne
1436l. denied that it was at all necessary to assimilate the currency of Scotland and England. A difference had existed in that currency for a very long and difficult period, and yet they had the evidence of three Bank directors, decidedly declaring that it had no bad effect upon the commerce of that country, or the transactions of its inhabitants. During a period of little less than a century, there had been, in fact, but two failures; the whole loss from which amounted to only 36,0001436l.Mr. J. P. Grant
 was of opinion, that the words of the resolution were not sufficiently comprehensive, so as to reach every species of bribery. He referred to the practice of giving money to electors after the election was over.Mr. Lockhart
1406 said, that when his noble friend had come down to the House with a bill he was told that his object would be better answered by proposing a resolution, and now he proposed a resolution, he was told that his best course to pursue would be to bring in a bill. The existence of the most gross and criminal corruption was notorious and undenied; and it was known to be the practice of
1406Mr. Warre
l.l.l.l. said, he had that day received a letter, in which it was stated, that a seat for a borough might be obtained, if the candidate was willing to spend 3,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 agreed with the hon. member for Newton, in thinking that it was difficult for any man to say, when he did or did not infringe the bribery laws. He also agreed with his hon. colleague, that there was no such thing in the city of London as bribery or corruption. He believed, nevertheless, that a person might offend against the law without knowing that he did so. With respect to the offer of a seat, mentioned by the hon. member for Aberdeen, he thought that it must have been a hoax played off upon him; for, considering that the hon. member was such a strenuous advocate for purity of election, he was likely to be the last man to whom such an application would be made.Mr. T. Wilson
 objected to the restrictions which had been imposed on English country bankers, while those of Scotland were exempted from their operation. He was of opinion, that if the currency of this country had been let alone, it would have righted itself, and we might have gone on as well as before; but to begin our alterations by depressing the country bankers, and by placing them under restrictions from which Scotch bankers were exempted, merely because there had been fewer failures in Scotland, was a course which he thought entirely wrong. He disagreed with those who had advised a different course to be pursued with regard to the two countries; as he considered that England and Scotland ought to have been left to work together, and he was sure, if they had, it would have been to their mutual advantage. To impose these restrictions on English country bankers, was to advance Scotland at the expense of England; for he was convinced there were no means of circumscribing the Scotch paper currency to the limits of that country alone. If the principle on which ministers acted was a good one, it ought to be applied to both countries.Mr. T. Wilson
"And in England, too."Mr. Peel,
 across the table: "That was during the Bank restriction."Mr. Peel,
 said, that the noble lord's object was chiefly to extend the term of inquiry into cases of bribery beyond its present insufficient limit, and he should therefore support the motion.Mr. W. Smith
 rose, to suggest the best mode of shortening this debate. He would advise every member, who felt the unmerited imputation cast by the hon. member's statement, to vote in favour of the noble lord's resolution. He repelled the accusation as far as he was personally concerned, and he called upon those who felt with him to vote with him also.Sir M. W. Ridley
143914381437 said, that as he had abstained from making any observations upon the system of banking at the time when the subject was discussed with reference to the English country bankers, he might perhaps be asked, why he proposed to make any observations upon the subject now. In answer to that, he could say, that as an English country banker, as one of those whose proceedings were said to have produced all the misery which afflicted the country, he had
143914381437Sir M. W. Ridley
1409 most solemnly declared, that he had never paid for his seat in meal, and he was quite sure that his hon. colleague never paid for his in malt. He had now been twice elected, and it was much to the honour of the six thousand electors of Southwark, that he had never paid a single shilling, directly or indirectly, towards his election. And he was sure that, if the hon. members for Westminster were in their places, they would say as much for their constituents. It was the duty of the House to carry these resolutions by a large majority, to shew that they were in earnest in their endea-
1409Sir R. Wilson
1407 said, there had been an impression throughout the House, that not only was the time for presenting an election petition limited, but that the limitation included all petitions which referred to the practices of bribery in boroughs. The bill brought in by his noble friend related, not to the removal of the sitting members, so much as to the general practice of bribery and corruption. He could not help thinking, that the conclusion of the session, and just before a general election, was precisely the period at which to pass such resolutions. If the motion was put off till next year, parties likely to be affected by these resolutions might say, that they had not received due notice
1407Lord Milton
5 in rising to second the motion, said, he was sensible that the feeling of the House was so entirely with the right hon. gentleman who had just been proposed to fill the office of Speaker, that it was unnecessary for him to occupy much of the attention of the House, or to add any thing to the eulogium which had been so justly pronounced by the right hon. mover. He was aware, indeed, that it had been the usage both for the mover and seconder, on these occasions, to make some observations on the nature, and the important duties, of the office. It would ill become him, however, to address any observations of that kind to members who had long sat in that House; and members who had now, for the first time, taken their seats in it, must, as English gentlemen, be so well acquainted with the arduous nature of the office of Speaker, and with
5Mr. Portman,
7 in rising to move the adjournment of the House, said, he could not forbear expressing his congratulations, both to his right hon. friend who had just taken the Chair, and to the House. He congratulated the right hon. gentleman on having received the highest reward
7Mr. Wynn,
43 rose and said, that it now devolved on the House to proceed to the discharge of a most important duty, namely the election of a member to fill in the ensuing parliament, one of the most honourable, and at the same time one of the most arduous offices, that could be conferred upon an individual in this country—that of Speaker of the House of Commons. Happily, the House had not, upon the present occasion, to encounter the difficulty of selecting from their body any untried member, who might inadequately discharge the duties of that high and arduous office. They possessed a member whom they had already elected to fill the office of their Speaker in three successive parliaments, and the experience of those successive parliaments had abundantly confirmed the wisdom of their
43Mr. Sturges Bourne
6 rose and said, that he felt his inability to express, as he ought, the thanks which he owed to his right hon. friend who proposed, and to his hon. friend, the member for Dorsetshire, who seconded, the motion; still less could he hope to be able to express the obligation and the gratitude which he owed to that House, for the cordial manner in which they had received it. To be elevated to that Chair, had been the first object of his ambition, and as long as his health and
6Mr. Manners Sutton
 said;—I beg most respectfully to express my acknowledgments to the House for this renewal of their countenance. They shall find me diligent, zealous, and impartial in the discharge of the duties which have devolved upon me. I have not the arrogance to presume, that, unassisted, I am equal to the task; but I implore of the House to correct me when I am wrong, to support me when I am right; and I pledge myself to make every exertion my powers can command to merit the renewal of that sanction and protection which, for three parliaments I have had the good fortune to obtain.The Speaker
 congratulated the House on the selection they had made, and would only express his hope, that every man who took office in the House, might enter upon it with as much integrity as the right hon. gentleman in the Chair.Sir Joseph Yorke
9 having taken the chair on his return from the House of Peers, said; I have to state to the House, that this House has been in the House of Peers, where the lords, authorized by his Majesty's commission, signified his Majesty's royal approbation and confirmation of me, as the Speaker of this House. I proceeded to lay claim, by humble petition, to all their undoubted rights and privileges, especially those of freedom from arrest for themselves, their servants, and estates; free access to his Majesty when occasion should require, and that all their proceedings should receive the most favourable construction. The lords, authorized by his Majesty's commission, signified his
9The Speaker
3130292827 said, that, in performing the task which had been allotted him, of moving the thanks of that House to his Majesty, for his Majesty's most gracious Speech from the Throne, he could not deny that he felt a considerable degree of difficulty. If the task of addressing that House for the first time was,
3130292827The Hon. T. Liddell
35343332 (member for Maldon), in rising to second the Address, said, that he did so with feelings of great anxiety and of great pleasure also. The anxiety that he felt was relieved by the gratification it afforded him, that the first words which he had an opportunity of uttering in that House were in the expression of sentiments of loyalty towards the sovereign, and of thanks to him on the occasion of the exercise of one of the most important branches of the royal prerogative. In this feeling of loyalty he was satisfied that all who heard him cordially participated. They had that day had an opportunity of witnessing the parental regard the sovereign had manifested for the preservation of the rights and liberties of the
35343332Mr. George Winn
4241403938flat3736 said, it had often fallen Jo his lot, on occasions of this kind, to
4241403938flat3736Mr. Brougham
49484746454443 said—I am really, Sir, somewhat at a loss to know what the hon. and learned gentleman requires, when he speaks of the barrenness, of information in the Speech from the
49484746454443Mr. Secretary Canning
 in explanation, denied that he had any wish to see the estimates reduced below what the exigencies of the public service would permit.Mr. Brougham,
595857l.l.sl5655ll54l53ll5251l50 reprobated the indisposition constantly exhibited, on the part of his Majesty's government, to diminish the naval, military and civil establishments of the country. Even where they had expressed any intention to do so, their acts had not corresponded with their declarations. If the hon. seconder of the Ad-
595857l.l.sl5655ll54l53ll5251l50Mr. Hume
62 member for Yorkshire, rose to second the amendment. He observed, that he had no ambition to trespass on the indulgence of the House, by going into all the topics introduced into the amendment moved by the hon. member for Aberdeen, but he begged to call the attention of the House to the
62Mr. Marshall,
lllslss65ssl.l6463 expressed his regret at finding, by the King's Speech, that ministers had not advised his Majesty to recommend any inquiry into, or remedy for, the distresses which were, upon all hands admitted to exist in the country. It had, indeed, been stated by the right hon. secretary, that it was the intention of ministers to propose a permanent law with respect to the introduction of corn, which law would, at a future period, be brought under discussion. But he would ask the House, whether, after this meeting, they ought to separate without giving the
lllslss65ssl.l6463Mr. Maberly
7069686766 member for Louth, said, that though he fully agreed with many of the points contained in the gracious Speech which the House had that day heard delivered from the throne, he was, as an Irish member, obliged to deplore the omission of one subject which he conceived ought to have been mentioned in it, and that was the present state of Ireland. He fully agreed in all that had been said by the hon. mover and seconder of the Address, respecting the sympathy which his Majesty felt for the distresses of the people of England; but, at the same time that he did this, he could not but regret that the sympathy of his Majesty had not been extended to his people in Ireland. He conceived that it was the bounden
7069686766Mr. Alexander Dawson,
7271 said, that, with all the respect which he felt for his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, it was impossible for him to come at once to a sweeping condemnation of the whole system of Corn-laws, on which the country had so long acted. He trusted that, whenever the House entered upon the discussion of those laws, it would do so with calmness and temperance; for upon no subject was it more necessary that they should set an example of calmness and temperance to the public. He conceived his hon. friend to be egregiously mistaken in supposing that the higher classes of the country, and more especially the landholders, were anxious to shift the burthens of taxation from their own shoulders to those of their poorer fellow-subjects. In entertaining such a supposition, his hon. friend had been led astray by prejudices which he must be permitted to call illiberal. For his own part, he could not help wishing that it had been convenient for the House to go forthwith into the discussion of the Corn-laws; and therefore he agreed with that part of the amendment which deprecated the postponement of that important question. He was likewise of opinion, that the House ought to give to the public a more formal pledge than usual, that it would enter without delay into the retrenchment of all unnecessary expenditure; but he would not go the length of his hon. friend in reducing our establish-
7271Mr. Western
73 said, he would only trouble the House with a few observations; but it did appear to him, that there was a total omission in the Speech from the throne of every subject which it ought to have contained. He contended that the distress of the country at the present time was as great as that which it had suffered at the worst period of the war, and argued therefrom, that it was particularly necessary to enter into an immediate consideration of the corn question. He believed it would not be denied, that during the war the value of land had risen in value full one-half, if not two-thirds; that every species of commodity had risen in a similar manner; and that the great inconvenience and distress which had been felt during its continuance, arose from the price of labour not keeping pace with the price of commodities. Now he would ask, whether it was reasonable, that, when there was a reduction in every article except that of food, when ministers were reducing the five per cents to four per cents, and playing other tricks with the currency, the House should uphold laws, which had no other object than to keep up the price of land and of the productions of the land? He contended, that the present system of Corn-laws, upheld the land full forty per cent, and thereby created distress, and its general concomitant, dissatisfaction, throughout the country, for who could endure with patience that his own property should be depreciated in order to uphold that of the landholder? He maintained, that ministers ought to have taken notice of the spirit of gambling and speculation which prevailed during the last year, and which had filled the Gazette with more bankruptcies than any other cause. The bubbles in 1720 had often been referred to, as forming a parallel to those which had recently exploded; but he contended, that the parallel was by no means a just one, as there had been a loss upon one scheme alone in the last year, which was more than equal to all the losses put together, upon all the schemes which were devised in 1720. No measures, however, had been taken to punish the fraudulent projectors of these ruinous
73Mr. Alderman Waithman
767574 rose, but, from the buz
767574Mr. Brogden
 said, it was impossible for him to sit silently under such gross personalities.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 dared to say, that the offensive words were not intended, but had escaped from the hon. member in the heat of discussion.The Speaker
797877 begged pardon of the Speaker and of the House, if he had inadvertently been guilty of a breach of order. But he must say, that he saw it reported in a public newspaper, as part of the speech of the hon. alderman, that he had pocketed thousands of pounds, without any inquiry or investigation. He did not impute this observation to the hon. alderman. It might have been an exaggeration; but, as he had seen the statement, he thought that he was bound to repel it. The greatest prejudice had been excited against him through the medium of the public papers; and, therefore, he called
797877Mr. Brogden
 begged to assure the hon. member, that the words attributed to him were not used, neither did he mean to allude particularly to those transactions to which the hon. member had referred. He only meant to say, that various transactions had taken place with respect to different companies with which the hon. member was connected, that, in his opinion, called for the animadversion of that House; and, if he could vindicate himself from them, no man would rejoice more sincerely than he would do. He had known the hon. member, though not intimately, for several years; and in making those observations he certainly was not actuated by any thing like personal hostility towards him.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he was conscious that the words which he quoted from the papers were not true. They were, however, attributed to the worthy alderman, and he therefore felt it necessary to notice them.Mr. Brogden
l80ll.l. said, he believed that such a debate had never before arisen on the question of voting an Address in answer to a King's Speech. As, however, he had been alluded to by the hon. member, he felt it necessary to say a word in explanation. When he heard, on a former evening, the right hon. the Speaker described as possessing all the cardinal virtues,—as having, in fact, as many virtues as there were points of the compass—surely it was not strange for him to express a wish, that the other officers of the House should manifest equal purity and integrity. The plain charge brought against the hon. gentleman was this—that he, as a director of the Arigna Company, purchased from a man, named Flattery (a very flattering name) certain mines, full of iron and coal—with which valuable commodities Ireland was to be supplied—for the sum of 10,000l80ll.l.Sir Joseph Yorke
l.81llll admitted, that certain members of the company did act as the gallant officer had stated. Undoubtedly, an agreement was entered into that 25,000l.81llllMr. Brogden
82 member for Kircud-bright, wished to bring the House back to the real question in debate. In his opinion, the Address, which was so ably and eloquently moved and seconded, was not objectionable; and that ground was, he thought, sufficient to enable them to say that they agreed to it. When the topics adverted to in it were unobjectionable, he would not oppose it on account of certain omissions; especially after the assurance of the right hon. Secretary of State, that the question of the Corn-laws would be deliberately considered, and that the still more important question, which involved the happiness and prosperity of Ireland, and also of England, would receive the same serious attention. He would now shortly state why he must withhold his assent from the amendment of the hon. member for Aberdeen, to whom the country was greatly indebted. He withheld that assent, because the amendment involved a great many topics which he was not prepared—neither could the House be prepared—to discuss at so short a notice. They could not pledge themselves on the moment to come to a decision on five of the most important questions that were over submitted to a British parliament. These subjects were, that the taxes should be reduced; that the expenditure should be lessened; that the Corn-laws should be abolished; that Catholic emancipation should be granted; and that there should be a contraction of sinecures and pensions. When, at the proper time, those questions came regularly before the House, he should not be deterred, by any consequences, from avowing his opinion, and voting according to the dictates of his judgment; but it was impossible for him to entertain them now. With respect to one of those subjects, with
82Mr. Fergusson,
888786858483 said, that he hoped the question relating to the Corn-laws would be considered by the House, not as it affected particular interests, but with a view to the general welfare of the empire; and he was also anxious that the earliest opportunity possible should be taken of discussing and setting it at rest, as the deferring it would only contribute to keep alive animosities which unfortunately existed between two parties in the country, who fancied that their interests respecting it were diametrically opposed to each other. He had great pleasure in expressing his approbation of the speech which had been delivered by the hon. gentleman who had moved the Address. It gave the most undoubted proof of his ability and his liberal sentiments, and was at once an honour to his heart and his head. That hon. gentleman had divided the subject into four distinct topics; and, as he himself conceived that those topics were the most important which could at present be offered for the consideration of the House, he would follow that example. With regard to the first—the indemnity to be granted to ministers for their admission of foreign oats—it was a matter which could admit of no discussion, as it was not possible that two opinions could be entertained respecting the propriety of a measure so evidently beneficial, and, indeed, so absolutely necessary for the
888786858483Sir Robert Wilson
9190 member for Dublin, said, that he should betray the duty which he owed to his sovereign, to his country, and to the solemn oath of fidelity which he had taken at that table, if he were to remain silent on the present occasion. He had been most anxious to find reason to agree with the Address; but he was sorry to say that he could find no such reason. He could not agree to it; and yet, if ministers had introduced into it one single sentence, which ought to have been there, they would have had many additional votes in their favour. When the House considered the communications which they had from Ireland, it was doubly their duty to take care that all mention of that country should not be excluded from the Address. A certain confidential public functionary, who had lately arrived from Ireland, and who must be well acquainted with the situation of that country, had stated, that the great evil of Ireland, and especially of Dublin, was poverty—a poverty which might be banished, if the people of Ireland were put into such a situation, that they could enjoy the benefit of British enterprise, British industry, and British capital; but that they could not enjoy without the adoption of such measures as would ensure conciliation and peace between the two countries. All this would be effected, if only one single measure were adopted. He had that day seen the crown on the king's head, and he thought that Ireland was the brightest gem of the diadem, and that the brightest measure the sovereign could adopt would be Catholic emancipation. At present government was forced to keep a large army in Ireland; and such was the situation of that country, that the inhabitants could not sit down in safety by their own fire sides; and yet, while the ministers required from them allegiance to the king, they would not, in return, afford them defence and security. He had documents in his hands, which showed that in the speeches from the throne, in the sessions of 1822, 1823, 1824, 1825, and 1826, Ireland had been prominently mentioned: and yet, although mentioned at the close of the last parliament, the subject was altogether omitted in the present royal Speech. The ministers had asked indemnity for having permitted the importation of corn. Why did they not ask for indemnity for not having given peace to Ireland? For his part he could not easily bring him-
9190Mr. Henry Grattan,
 in explanation, said, that whatever measures would tend to promote the interests of Ireland, and of the noble race of men by whom that fine country was peopled, would always receive his cordial support, if he were convinced that those measures could be carried into execution with safety to the church and state.Mr. Winn,
92 member for Dublin, was of opinion, that the diversity of sentiments which had been expressed in the course of the debate, had arisen from the absence of several topics from the King's Speech, which, in the judgment of different members, ought to have been introduced into it. He himself thought, that the state of Ireland had been sufficiently adverted to, in the present stage of parliamentary proceedings. On that subject he had never had but one opinion, and that was, that
92Mr. Moore,
93 regretted that the
93Sir Joseph Yorke
 was sorry that the condition of the Catholics of Ireland had not been mentioned in the Speech from the throne. If his hon. friend, the member for Dublin, would propose the amendment to which he had alluded, he would give it his cordial support.Mr. Richard Martin
94 said, that though he agreed with the hon. member for Aberdeen in the opinion which he had expressed, with respect to many of the topics alluded to in his amendment, yet he could not, without an opportunity for more ample discussion, give his support to that amendment. No one had expressed the slightest objection to the Address which had been moved, but the hon. member proposed to tack to it an amendment, coupled with a speech, full of the most important considerations, and the House was called upon, in a new parliament, many of the members, probably, never having had an opportunity of considering many of the topics which had been brought before them, to vote for this amendment, which he really believed was longer than the long speech by which it was introduced. For his own part, he generally voted against ministers on all questions of economy, such as the retrenchment of
94Mr. Calcraft
 would vote for the amendment, because, as he conceived, it did not pledge the House to any opinion with respect to the topics introduced into it, but merely to take them into consideration.Sir R. Fergusson
 then moved, that the following words be added to the Address:—"That this House desires to express to his Majesty their deep regret at the present state of Ireland, and to assure his Majesty of their determination to direct their attention towards that subject, with a view to the redress of the grievances under which his Majesty's subjects there labour:—That this House will apply their most serious attention to the investigation of the estimates which may be laid before them; and will take the most effectual measures for reducing the expenditure of the country in all its branches, civil and military, to the lowest scale consistent with the good government and the honour of the nation."Mr. Henry Grattan
 member for Beverley, said, that he quite agreed with what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, and conceived that the statute law afforded a sufficient provision against bribery and corruption in the election of members of parliament, without having recourse to the resolutions proposed by the noble lord.Mr. Batley,
107106 said, he was quite certain that the right hon. gentleman would not; so soon have put forth his strength against the resolutions which the House had adopted at the close of the last session, if he were not certain of being supported by the strong phalanx which was about him. In his opinion, it would have been much better for the right hon. gentleman to have displayed his ingenuity in correcting the faults of those resolutions than to have exercised it in attempting to get rid of them altogether. If ever there was a time which called for interference of the House to correct the abuses with which the business of elections was conducted, it was the present; for after the experience which every person had had of the late elections, it was evident how little terror the resolutions of the House inspired. There never were so many cases of gross and flagrant corruption, against the recurrence of which it was the duty of the House to take all practicable precautions. The charity of the last speaker towards the persons to be affected by these resolutions was most suspicious. It would
107106Colonel Davies
108 observed, that the House was called upon to affirm or to reject resolutions, which went to create a new offence and a new mode of trial. The end might, be a very proper one; but it would, he conceived, be infinitely better that this new jurisdiction should be sanctioned by a bill, rather than by a resolution of the House of Commons. Such a mode of proceeding would admit of consideration and discussion in the different stages, whereby errors might be corrected and improvements introduced. But the House was called upon by the noble lord to adopt at once resolutions on a subject of infinite importance. Did not the noble lord think it a serious matter, that a committee of the House should be empowered to administer an oath? Was it not a serious matter that a common informer might keep in his pocket, for seventeen months and twenty-eight days, a petition affecting the interest of individuals and of corporate bodies; that, at the end of seventeen months he might, if he pleased, prefer his charge against a corporation, or an individual to the House, without expense to himself, and without one word being inserted in the resolutions as to a penalty in case of vexatious or malicious charges? He was surprised to hear the hon. member, who spoke last, assert, that there had been more gross bribery during the last election than at any former period; and this in the face of the resolutions. The fact proved, then, the insufficiency of the resolutions; although the hon. member considered it as a sufficient reason for adopting them. He was not contending against the principle of the noble lord. He repeated what he had slated last session, that this measure should be introduced by bill, and that the nature and the extent of this now jurisdiction should be carefully determined. The House should have the opportunity of ma-
108Mr. Secretary Peel
 opposed the amendment; not because he was indifferent to the interests of the landlords, but because he was convinced that the introduction of the subject at the present moment was extremely ill-timed. He could not agree that it was a fault in the Speech from the throne to have omitted the several topics yesterday alluded to. On the contrary he thought those omissions formed its great merit.Sir J. Sebright
110 member for Surrey, said, that the importance of the question and a sense of duty impelled him to offer a few observations to the House. He was the more induced to do so, because, with reference to the subject involved in the resolutions; namely, the purity of election, hon. gentlemen must be, so soon after the general election, strongly impressed with the necessity of some measure, to enforce the principle contained in them. His gratitude, as an independent member of parliament, was due to the noble lord who brought forward the propositions, as well as to the noble lord with whom they originated, because he was proud to see the aristocracy of the country advocating the rights and privileges of the people. But, much as he felt indebted to those noble
110Mr. Pallmer,
"Your Majesty's faithful Commons feel it their duty to represent to your Majesty, and at the same time to express their deep regret, that the agricultural classes, though not suffering in the degree they did a few years ago, particularly in the year 1822, are yet in a state of severe pressure of distress, from the heavy burthens to which they are exposed. They will endeavour to trace the causes which have led to the dreadful alternations of prosperity and adversity which all the industrious classes have experienced since the termination of the war in the year 1815, and they trust they shall discover the means of restoring the agriculture, commerce, and manufactures, of the country to the same condition of progressive improvement, in which they were steadily advancing antecedent to that period."113sllss112 rose for the purpose of submitting an amendment, by way of addition to the Address. This he felt to be necessary, not that he was hostile to any part of the Address, but that he was desirous to fill up an omission on a question most important to the country. The Address adverted to the distressed situation of the manufacturing districts, but it omitted to state, in any particular manner, the condition of the agriculturists, who, he would say, though not as depressed as the manufacturers, were still labouring under severe pressure, arising from the burthens to which they were subject. It became the more necessary to advert to the situation of the agriculturists, because the omission of that subject from the royal Speech went to confirm an opinion too prevalent in the country, that the agriculturists were in prosperity, and that they were flourishing, at the expense of the manufacturers. This opinion he knew prevailed among the manufacturing classes, and it had even been stated in that House by an hon. alderman. It was necessary that such an opinion should not go forth as sanctioned by that House, and therefore he felt bound, publicly, to deny its justice. The farmers, he could state, were in distress, and their condition generally declining. They were scarcely able to struggle against the burthens by which they were oppressed.
"Your Majesty's faithful Commons feel it their duty to represent to your Majesty, and at the same time to express their deep regret, that the agricultural classes, though not suffering in the degree they did a few years ago, particularly in the year 1822, are yet in a state of severe pressure of distress, from the heavy burthens to which they are exposed. They will endeavour to trace the causes which have led to the dreadful alternations of prosperity and adversity which all the industrious classes have experienced since the termination of the war in the year 1815, and they trust they shall discover the means of restoring the agriculture, commerce, and manufactures, of the country to the same condition of progressive improvement, in which they were steadily advancing antecedent to that period."113sllss112Mr. Western
 said, that he would not take the sense of the House on the amendment; but he wished it to be put, as he was anxious to have it placed on record.Mr. Western
115ls114 seconded the amendment. He could not but regret that the subject of the Corn-laws had not formed a part of the Speech from the Throne; the more particularly on account of the; strange delusion which filled the public mind on that subject. That it was a delusion to suppose that the distress was owing to the Corn-laws would be proved by the fact, that under those laws, and; even at higher prices than the present, the manufacturers, masters and journey-men, had prospered to a degree thereto-fore unexampled. He contended, that the distress arose from the impolitic conduct of government in tampering with the currency, from the great issue of small notes, and from the fact of ministers never allowing the country to enjoy the benefit of a real sinking fund. He maintained that it was another delusion to suppose that the repeal of the Corn-laws would produce cheap
115ls114Mr. Leycester
98 presented a petition from the inhabitants of Abdick, Bulstone, and Ilminster, in Somerset, praying that the House would not permit any alteration in the Corn-laws, without the fullest investigation. He had in his possession many petitions on this subject, but from what had been said last night by the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, who had intimated the intention of government to bring the subject before the House shortly after the adjournment, he should, for the present, withhold them. For the same reason, and as the right hon. gentleman had said, that he would not be drawn into any discussion at present, he would for bear from making any of the observations which forced themselves upon his mind at this moment. He did not ask his Majesty's government to state what was their intention on any part of it; but feeling the importance of the subject, he could not help insisting upon the necessity of obtaining all the information that could be come at respecting the operation of the Corn-laws as they at present existed. If any inconvenience had been experienced, which he very much doubted, because the laws which existed had not been put into execution, it could only be satisfactorily ascertained by means of the inquiry to which he now alluded. He wished the whole system of the laws on this subject to be put on a different footing; but what he was most desirous to impress on his Majesty's government was, the necessity of procuring full and complete information, before any new enactment should be resolved upon. It was not for him to suggest to ministers the course that they ought to pursue; but, as far as his own opinion went, he was decidedly in favour of the appointment of a committee, without which he thought the question could not be fairly and usefully re-agitated and re-discussed. When this question had last
98Sir T. Lethbridge
105104103 said, that he certainly did not mean to differ on general principles from the noble lord who had just sat down, although, he should feel it his duty to object to the mode in which he proposed to carry his resolutions into effect. He agreed with the noble lord in conceiving it to be the bounden duty of the House to inquire into every case where gross bribery and corruption were said to have been
105104103Mr. Wynn
109 doubted whether the resolutions of the noble lord would meet all the objects he had in view, and felt that there was some weight in the arguments urged on the other side of the House; though the right hon. gentleman who spoke last had taken rather a partial view of the question. It had been urged by an hon. member, that the existing laws were sufficient for punishing bribery, provided they were properly executed. The resolutions of the House enabled them to do it, if they were exerted. The right hon. gentleman had dwelt upon the long period during which a common informer might keep a petition in his pocket; but it was in the discretion of the House, if such a case occurred, to deal with it in a proper manner, and reject the petition altogether. Another argument of the right hon. gentleman was just, and showed the infirmity of the resolutions; namely, that the party petitioning incurred no peril. He thought that this was a serious defect, and that it could not be remedied by a resolution of the House. This House could not inflict a penalty: it could not even inflict costs upon the party. This power did not belong to a separate branch of the legislature. Moreover, if the defect were attempted to be supplied by a bill, was the House sure that the other House would pass it? This House might adopt it; but this House depended in some measure, for the pure exercise of its functions, upon the other House, and might propose for that object
109Mr. Scarlett
9796 presented a petition from the parish of Wootton, in Kent, against any further concessions to the Roman Catholics, and for putting down the new Roman Catholic Association. He said, that he could not remain quite silent upon a subject of such vital importance, lest he should incur the charge of supineness in a cause he was most desirous to advocate. He concurred in the prayer of the petition, and cordially rejoiced that the parish of Wootton was thus early in the field to express its opposition to popery, and its determination to uphold unimpaired our Protestant constitution; for he was firmly convinced that if the legislature did not promptly interpose its authority, and quickly make use of the power it possessed effectually to suppress the existing popish faction, and at once to shut the door against farther concession to the Roman Catholics, it must be expected, that that portion of the benches of that assembly,
9796Sir John Brydges
99 said, he had heard the announcement made last night by his Majesty's ministers, that they would not at present enter upon this subject, with considerable regret. If they were aware of the agitation which the notion of any alteration in the Corn-laws had occasioned, not only in the agricultural, but in the manufacturing, interests of the country, he was sure they would not have formed any such resolution. He thought it was too much for ministers to call parliament together in November, and tell them then that they had a plan to propose, but which they did not intend to bring forward until February. He was aware that it might be inconvenient to them to disclose that plan at present; but, however inconvenient it might be, their duty left them no alternative but to do so. It was inconvenient to him, and he had no doubt it was equally so to many other members, to be in town at this season; but being here, he should think he failed in his duty if he neglected to press upon
99Lord Althorp
101100 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for the renewal of the resolutions passed on the 26th of May last, relating to bribery and corruption in returning members to serve in parliament. But it might be necessary for him, before he did so, to explain to the House, for the information of those members who were not in parliament when these resolutions were adopted, the nature of the measure which he meant to submit to their notice. If his noble friend (lord John Russell) who first introduced them, were a member of this parliament, he should have left the task of bringing them forward to him, but his noble friend not having at present a seat, he felt it to be his duty to propose them. In all the discussions which had taken place on this subject, it had been constantly stated by its opponents that their opposition was founded upon hostility to any sweeping measure which went to change the constituted body, but that whenever an instance of gross bribery or corruption was made out against any particular borough, the place ought to be disfranchised, and that they were ready to act upon that principle as often as such a case should be brought forward. Yet, notwithstanding such a declaration, it was quite notorious that many boroughs, wherein gross and open corruption was practised, were not as yet disfranchised. Hence the necessity for the introduction of those resolutions which were proposed, by his noble friend, at the close of the last session of parliament, and which he had now the honour to call upon the House to sanction by its vote. Very few cases of corruption, comparatively speaking, had been brought before the House, although every one seemed to agree in the necessity of putting a stop to a system which was admitted, on all hands,
101100Lord Althorp
 said, that if the present resolutions were to be embodied in a bill, there was not the slightest chance of its passing the other House. The only hope of adopting the present rules was by a resolution of the House. The most material objection which had been urged against the resolutions, was founded upon the power which it gave of presenting petitions without expense. This was the unavoidable consequence of founding the measure upon resolutions, and not upon a bill. But he did not think, that, practically, any such effects would result as were suggested, and if they did occur, it would be easy to find a remedy for such a practical evil. However, as it seemed to be the general wish of the House that the resolutions, in their present state, should be withdrawn, he would, with the consent of the House, withdraw them.Lord Althorp
toto cælo123 differed entirely from the right hon. gentleman in the observation, that an acquiescence in the present motion would infringe upon the Grenville act. The right hon. gentleman was not more disposed than he himself was, to bestow hearty commendation upon that act, than which no one more wise or virtuous had ever been framed by that or any other assembly. For what was the object of that act? It was to make a voluntary surrender, on the part of this branch of the legislature, of a jurisdiction which it found itself not capable of wisely and impartially exercising. So far, therefore, as the Grenville act went to take from that House, in its collective capacity, the right of determining upon cases of controverted elections, and to refer such cases to a more satisfactory tribunal, it had his approval. But this provision for a competent tribunal to decide upon such cases, did not go to take away from parliament the right and power of self-defence and protection, in the event of circumstances totally unconnected with those under which that act was originally passed. Did his hon. and learned friend propose, that that act should, in this particular case, be infringed on, or did he propose that inquiry and examination should be abandoned, where investigation could be attended with advantage? No such thing. There was here no necessity for such inquiry; for the decision was to be formed on an inspection of the returns themselves. They were both before them. It was unnecessary to examine into the details of the election; for there were documents before the House which, without reference to such details, would enable them to come to a decision. Here were two returns. In one, the indenture was annexed to the writ by the sheriff; in the other, it was not. In the one all the necessary forms were complied with; in the other, they were not. The question for the House to determine was, which of these returns the House should adopt? Witnesses were not necessary. They had the evidence of their own senses to regulate them in the course most proper to pursue. The case of the election of Liskeard had been adverted to; but, in his opinion, the cases were by no means analogous. Even in that case he had the high constitutional authority of Mr. Pitt to support him in the opinion, that that case did not fall within the Grenville act, and that the
toto cælo123Mr. Brougham
 thought the House had no power to alter the return made by the sheriff, except it was decided by a competent tribunal that he had acted corruptly or illegally. He thought, therefore, that the book on their table was quite sufficient to decide the case. The second return, it was clear, was never mentioned as a return by the sheriff himself.Mr. Carter
 thought the whole question was, whether the second return could be called a legal return. In his opinion, it was no return at all, though he did not think that any blame was attributable to the sheriff.Mr. D. Gilbert
 said, he must make a confession, and take to himself whatever shame attached to it; namely, that he was ignorant of the course which ought to be pursued in this case, and if called on to vote, he must oppose the motion; because, in his present state of information on the subject, he was unwilling to assent to a vote which would decide it all at once and for ever. He was not prepared to go the whole length with the hon. and learned gentleman in saying that want of annexation to the writ constituted a nullity. If that were so, undoubtedly the learned gentleman's case would be a very strong one. However, as it would be better to decide by precedents, and as this would decide future cases, he would suggest the propriety of adjourning the question for further discussion, when they would come better prepared to give it that attention which its importance required. He had at first thought that it would be better to call the clerk of the Crown to the bar, to give explanation, if necessary; but on consideration, bethought, that might be deciding the case at one side. He would move, that the debate be adjourned to Wednesday, and that the clerk of the Crown be ordered to be in attendance.— Agreed to.Mr. Secretary Canning
133 did not rise to oppose the measure now under consideration. He believed it was the only course ministers could have pursued. But it was most desirable, without now attempting to enter on the merits of the great question of the Corn-laws, that an early settlement of it should take place. He could not help pointing out to the House the strange nature of the law by which the corn trade was to have been regulated. They were now deliberating upon the third instance of its infraction within the last three years. Could a heavier censure fall upon any law than that simple fact? They passed a law which suffered repeated infractions from the executive government: they were suddenly convened to consider of the infraction, and they all felt satisfied that the breach of the law was the only safe conduct which government could adopt. The year before last they adopted resolutions in direct contradiction to this law: they did the same last year: and now they were assembled to pass an act of indemnity to ministers for breaking through it. He put it to the House, if such a law ought any longer to disgrace the Statute-book. He was prepared to show, at the proper time, that it was not only in hostility to the general prosperity of the country, but that it acted most injuriously on that interest for whose benefit it had been enacted. He concurred with the hon. baronet in hoping, that no recrimination or angry feelings would be allowed to mix themselves up with the consideration of this question. It was one of vast importance to all interests, affecting, as it did, not only the prosperity of the agricultural, but the manufacturing and trading classes. It was likewise a question of great difficulty, which it became all to approach with calmness; and he trusted, the passions and interests of individuals would not be mixed up in a matter so intimately affecting the universal safety and well-being of the state. With respect to the recent act of ministers, it
133Mr. Whitmore
ssss134dssss wished the hon. gentleman had followed the example of the hon. baronet who preceded him, and refrained from any animadversion on the Corn-law. As he had made many allusions to it on different 6ccaskms, it would have been well if the hon. gentleman had taken the trouble to ascertain what that law was. Among the various publications which had appeared upon it, he had perused one which had been put forth by the hon. gentleman. In that pamphlet he found it asserted, that the principle of the law of 1815 was, to cut off all intercourse, as to the trade in grain, with foreign countries; that the trade in corn was rendered, by that law, the exception, and not the rule; and that the object of it was, to screw up the prices at home to an unnatural elevation. Now, so far was the trade in corn made the rule of the law in 1815—so far was it from being made the exception, that it was established, that when the averages were at 63ssss134dssssColonel Wood
 member for Bridport, expressed a hope, that the intimation thrown out by the Foreign Secretary of State would be rigidly adhered to, and that any measure relative to an alteration of the Corn-laws would be brought forward in that House without any previous intimation elsewhere; so that every member would come equally unprepared and equally unprejudiced to the discussion of this important subject.Mr. Warburton,
 observed, that all the interests of the country were so closely connected, that any measure which tended to uphold one of them exclusively, was certain, in the long run, to be injurious to that very interest. In avowing himself friendly to some alteration in the Corn-laws, he did not consider himself to be seeking the advantage of his own constituents at the expense of any other class of the community. He fully agreed with an hon. gentleman who once represented the city of London, that he was not so much sent to parliament to guard the interests of the city, as to guard those of the country at large, and, indeed, he might say, of posterity. In conclusion, he would not compliment ministers on the policy which they had pursued with regard to this question, for he thought that if they had any feeling, they must be nauseated with the compliments they had received already. However, this much he would say, that they would have been highly criminal if they had abstained from acting as they had done.Mr. Alderman Waithman
pro tempore139 said, he was sure that only one impression could have been generated in the House by the address which the hon. gentleman had delivered— an address which was as creditable to that hon. gentleman's sense of what was due to himself, as it was consonant to the honour of the House, and to the feelings of those whose duty it was to suggest a fit person to fill the chair of the committees. For his own part, he felt that the House, although it might avail itself of the hon. member's determination to withdraw himself at present from the chair, which he had filled with so much credit to himself and advantage to the public business— and he could assure it, that he did not intend to propose the hon. gentleman for its chairman, after what he had just said,— he felt, he repeated, that the House, if the hon. gentleman came out of the inquiry which he had challenged, free from moral taint, would be sorry to make any arrangement which would preclude him from again filling that situation. At the same time, he must observe, that if it had been possible—if it had been either respectful to the House, or kind to the individual— to press him against his own disclaimer, he should have been reluctant to place the hon. member at present in the chair, because he felt that a thousand opportunities
pro tempore139Mr. Secretary Canning
141140 said, he felt himself in as painful a situation—indeed he might say, in a more painful situation —than he had ever before felt in addressing a public assembly. He wished it to be distinctly understood by the House, that he did not come forward as the accuser of the hon. gentleman. With regard to the transactions which he had brought before it, and which the hon. member had acknowledged to be fraudulent, the hon. member said that he knew nothing. He gave the hon. member credit for that assertion; and he now informed the House, that it was not upon that ground alone that he opposed the re-elec-
141140Mr. Alderman Waithman
135, member for Ipswich, said, he was aware it was irregular to allude to any discussion which had taken place in that House on a previous occa-
135Colonel Torrens
 said, he considered that ministers were justified in the course they had pursued, and that, seeing the temper and feeling of the House, he would not at present enter into the general question of the Corn-laws.Mr. Western
 concurred with the last speaker in approving of the conduct of ministers. It was his intention to have gone more at large into the general question of the Corn-laws, but, observing the temper and disposition of the House on the subject, he forbore doing so for the present.Mr. Wodehouse
 thought the House ought to decide from the documents before them. If they went out of those documents, they would travel out of the record.Mr. Horace Twiss
 wished to explain that nothing could be taken as a return to the king's writ, except the return made by the sheriff to the Crown-office, and by the officer of the Crown to the House. There was the book on the table, stating that one return was annexed to the precept, and annexed by the sheriff to the writ; and also stating, that the other return was not annexed to the precept or to the writ, as well as that it was not regularly received, in point of time. From the manner in which the entry was made no further evidence was necessary for the House to decide the question.Mr. Abercromby
 said, that, as the subject of his present motion was intimately connected with the privileges of that House, it would, of course, take precedence of every other. He would commence by requesting the clerk to read the return to the Crown-office relative to the borough of Tregony.Mr. Abercromby
119118117116 then proceeded to observe, that the simple reading of that entry might be almost sufficient to establish beyond contradiction, that there had been no double return for the borough in question, and that the entry in the book ought to be forthwith rectified, by order of
119118117116Mr. Abercromby
138 addressed the House. He said, that he had now had the honour of filling the important and honourable situation of Chairman of the Committees of the House for nearly two whole parliaments; and he was not conscious of having done any act, during that period, which was either dishonourable in itself or derogatory from the situation which he filled in that House and in society at large. Within the few last months, however, he had been assailed by public and private calumnies, the most unjustifiable and unfounded. He had rebutted those calumnies as far as was in his power; but they were still circulated to his disadvantage, in consequence of the prejudices which had been excited against him. He was happy, however, in having it in his power to say, that from those who knew him best, he had received, not blame, but thanks; he had met, not with accusation, but applause; whilst, on the other hand, he was sorry to say, that among the public at large his character had been torn from him by anonymous publications of the most scandalous and virulent description. He would venture to affirm, that there was no gentleman on either side of the House, let his politics be what they might, who had investigated the merits of his case, and possessed sufficient knowledge of it to decide on the accusations which had been preferred against him. In such a condition, though he felt himself perfectly guiltless, he could not think of presenting himself as a candidate for the office which he had filled in the two last parliaments, until he had removed the
138Mr. Brogden
 deprecated the appointment of any more committees to examine into the operation of the Corn-laws. He conceived such a step to be utterly needless, after the mass of information which had been collected on the subject.Mr. Benett
 thought that ministers could not have acted otherwise than they had done. He would not anticipate the general discussion. He was one of those, who felt great inconvenience at the postponement of the question; yet he could discover many good reasons for that postponement. He approved, therefore, of the determination of government to promulgate nothing until after the holydays. He advised every member to use his best endeavours to allay animosities, and abstain from any observations, until the opportunity should arrive for a full and conclusive discussion of the subject.Mr. Calcraft
 was not disposed to concur fully with the hon. and learned mover, although he certainly had not heard anything from the right hon. gentleman to affect his statement. He thought the House ought to exercise its utmost vigilance to guard against fictitious returns. Suppose, for instance, that in some of the boroughs or popular places of England, where persons voted by scot and lot, some person on the part of the scot and lot voters assumed to officiate as the returning officer, and that his return was forwarded to the sheriff, and accompanied the writ to the clerk of the Crown's office; great difficulty might arise from setting aside such a return. He, therefore, thought it necessary to adopt some measure to provide against the inconvenience that might arise from undue returns in such a case, or in a case similar to the present. When it was considered what expense arose from prosecuting petitions in cases of controverted elections, every precaution should be taken to prevent fictitious returns. He would support a motion that went to effect such an object.Mr. Lockhart
137 asserted, that, both in the House and out of it, there was a unanimous opinion, that the question of the Corn-laws ought to undergo immediate discussion. Such being the case, the conduct of ministers appeared very extraordinary. There were hundreds of petitions to be presented from the manufacturing districts against those laws; and no gentleman would perform his duty in presenting them, if he did not state fully the nature of their contents. Discussion
137Mr. Hume
125 said, he had never contended that any return should be received by the House, except such as had been made through the sheriff; nor did he think the
125Mr. Wynn
121120 assured the hon. and learned member that he should not have thought himself at all disorderly in interrupting him before he had concluded his speech, had he been aware that his motion would have taken the shape which he had eventually given it. The hon. and learned member commenced by telling them, that he had a motion to submit on a matter connected with their privileges; but, in fact, he had concluded with a proposition which was against law, and against the usage of that House. The details with which the learned gentleman had favoured them, would have been perfectly in place, before an election committee, legally constituted for the investigation of the alleged irregularity; but when addressed to that House, which had no power to entertain the subject, they were useless to all purpose, but to prejudge the question. What was the substance of the motion? That that House should of its own authority, order a return to be taken off the file. If the learned member could persuade the House to such a course, the next thing he must do, would be to bring in a bill to repeal all the acts relating to elections passed by that House since the commencement of legislation on the subject. If the House were to controvert a return made to it, in the manner now proposed, it would lead to the greatest inconveniences. For if, under any pretence, they were once to arrogate to themselves such a power, there would be always plenty of cases, with circumstances of a special and peculiar nature, to demand their interference. It was the established practice of the House, in cases of this kind,' to refer the matter in the first instance, to a committee of privileges. That was the course pursued in the case of Pomfret, in the time of James the 1st. In that case it was decided, that the proper course to be pursued was, to refer mat-
121120Mr. Wynn
124 said, that nothing was further from his intention than to take any part in this discussion, nor was he aware of its nature until he had entered the
124Mr. Huskisson
dsdss"2. That the importation of foreign oats, oatmeal, rye, pease, and beans, be permitted for a time to be limited, on payment of the duties hereinafter mentioned: that is to say, for every quarter of oats 2dsdss131"1. That all persons concerned in issuing, or advising the issue, or acting in execution of, an Order of Council of the 1st day of February, 1826, for allowing the importation of certain sorts of foreign corn, shall be indemnified.ssssd130ssdsss129128dssdsdsdsdsds127 addressed the committee. He began by observing, that as the Orders in Council for the opening of the ports for the admission of oats, oatmeal, peas, beans, and rye, which had just been referred to the committee, was issued, not only without the authority of law, but in direct contravention of existing statutes, and as his Majesty had called parliament together at this time chiefly for the purpose of having that order submitted for their consideration, he thus took the earliest opportunity of submitting to the House the grounds on which his Majesty had been advised to issue that order. This was a duty which ministers owed to parliament, to the country, and to themselves; and if it should be the pleasure of the legislature to grant them the indemnity for which they sued, so far from its becoming a dangerous precedent, it would rather tend to strengthen and confirm the precise bounds by which the different authorities in the state were limited. They owed it also to themselves to seek the indemnity of parliament, as they would otherwise be subject to certain legal consequences for having so advised the Crown; and they likewise owed it to those subordinate officers who acted under their orders in opening the ports. The date of the Order in Council was the 1st of September. At that time most of the members of parliament were resident in the country, and had opportunities, in their several districts, of observing the state of the harvest. That circumstance would render it the less necessary for him to go into any lengthened statement, on the present occasion; and he was certain the recollection of those members would bear him out in the assertion, that never was there a period when the reports from the different parts of the country so entirely concurred as to the harvest, and he hoped that those reports would be sufficient to justify ministers in the course they had pursued. With respect to the state of the crops at that time, he would say first, that wheat, taken as a whole, was deficient in quantity and quality; and the quality of course affected the value of the quantity. Barley, on the whole, would not make more than about two thirds of an average crop. Oats were generally deficient, and beans and peas much more so; and such had been the appearance of those crops in the ground, that in the month of
dsdss"2. That the importation of foreign oats, oatmeal, rye, pease, and beans, be permitted for a time to be limited, on payment of the duties hereinafter mentioned: that is to say, for every quarter of oats 2dsdss131"1. That all persons concerned in issuing, or advising the issue, or acting in execution of, an Order of Council of the 1st day of February, 1826, for allowing the importation of certain sorts of foreign corn, shall be indemnified.ssssd130ssdsss129128dssdsdsdsdsds127Mr. Huskisson
"Gentlemen of the House of Commons; —I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. I rely with confidence on your affectionate support; and you may depend upon my continued exertions to uphold the honour and interests of the nation, to cultivate the blessings of peace abroad, and to promote, at home, the welfare of all classes of my subjects." reported his Majesty's Answer to the Address, as follows:
"Gentlemen of the House of Commons; —I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. I rely with confidence on your affectionate support; and you may depend upon my continued exertions to uphold the honour and interests of the nation, to cultivate the blessings of peace abroad, and to promote, at home, the welfare of all classes of my subjects."The Speaker
132 said, that in looking at the situation in which the country was placed at the period alluded to, his Majesty's ministers were perfectly justified in the course they had adopted. This was his own opinion, and it was also the opinion of many gentlemen with whom he concurred in the general view of the Corn-laws. But, in saying this, he begged not to be understood as meaning to retract any thing he had formerly said with respect to that question. His sentiments remained unaltered on that subject; but he thought the case now before the committee formed no part of that general question. He was ready to admit, that a sufficient case had been made out for the measure adopted by ministers. In expressing that, he believed that he only spoke the feelings of the landed interest. He would go further, and say, that he only spoke their sentiments in declaring, that all the country gentlemen were greatly indebted to ministers for that which they had done. He made this observation, because it was asserted, most unjustly, that the landed interest were the only persons who differed from public opinion upon this most important subject. He knew it was a principle generally admitted among persons concerned in commerce, that, after any unusual depression, they were at liberty to seek for a remuneration of their losses in advanced prices. That was, as he understood, a general principle in trade and manufactures, and it was not at all unfair. But it was not applicable, at all times, to the agricultural interest. That interest had been as depressed as any class in the kingdom, and no good could result from exciting jealousy between them and the manufacturers. The best remedy for the evils of the country was to look them fairly in the face, and not to enter into any recrimination between the different classes of society. When the great question came under consideration, he hoped the House would not be told that landlords were oppressive, and
132Sir E. Knatchbull
"To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled, the Petition of Robert Gourlay, presented the following petition:—
"To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled, the Petition of Robert Gourlay,Mr. Hume
144 said, he held in his hand a petition from the incorporation of guildry of the city of Brechin, praying for a speedy revision of the Corn-laws. The petition stated, that the admission by ministers of foreign grain, was a measure of prudence and necessity, and the petitioners were unanimous in their expression of that opinion. The concluding part of the petition prayed the House not to adopt half measures with regard to the Corn-laws, but so to deal with them as to remove the necessity of ministers having again to claim an indemnity from parliament for effecting a public good. The hon. member then claimed the indulgence of the House while he referred to a report in a daily paper, tending, as he said, to injure him in the eyes of the country. He was well aware of the malice and inveterate rancour pursued towards him by some individuals connected with the public press, who gave publication to a series of calumnies that seriously affected his character. He hoped, however, that the time was not far distant when the imputations under which he laboured would be satisfactorily cleared up, by a full explanation of the circumstances which had given rise to them. The hon. member then said, in alluding to the report in question, that at the close of his observations respecting the corn question, a few nights ago, when he called upon ministers not to postpone the consideration of that important measure, as the peace of the country and the interest of the people at large would not admit of delay, it was asserted that he was coughed down. Had such been the case, it would certainly not have been the first time that the House had signified a wish that he should not say more; but he begged to state, that his meaning on the occasion alluded to was only partly given, and to say that he experienced in that House such treatment was only adding to the calumnies with which he was constantly assailed. He had too much confidence in the indulgence of the House, and the favour of the Speaker, to suppose that such treatment would have been pursued
144Mr. Hume
 said, he could assure the House that the landed interest did not by any means feel the alarm on the subject of the Corn-laws which was attributed to them. He for one had a full confidence in the wisdom of the House, and was satisfied that it would not proceed to legislate on such a subject without maturely weighing the interests of all parties concerned. It was desirable that it should be soon disposed of, as landlords at present were embarrassed upon what terms to let their lands.Mr. Hurst
148ll said, he had a petition to present to the House, which was of great importance to the public, and involved also the honour and independence of the House. The petition was from Mr. Roger Flattery, of Dublin, who was formerly a civil engineer in the employment of government, and whose name must be familiar to many gentlemen present, as connected with the Arigna Mining Company. The petitioner complained of a variety of grievances which he suffered in consequence of his connexion with that mischievous and ruinous undertaking. It appeared that Mr. Flattery had sold his interest in the Arigna mines to the undertakers of that scheme, for the sum of 10,000148llMr. Alderman Waithman
 replied, that it did not. It merely prayed for an inquiry into the conduct of the persons connected with a certain company.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 rose to second the resolutions, and observed, that great thanks were due to the hon. gentleman who had introduced them. If any member who was not in the last parliament had any scruple in voting for them, he could assure him that any change in the mode of constituting committees on private bills must be a change for the better. It might be said, that it would be improper to prevent members from coming in to vote in a private committee in which they had not heard the previous proceedings, seeing that they were allowed to do so in the House on important questions. He did not mean to justify one course by citing the other, but there was this difference between the two cases. In the committee they voted on evidence; while, in the House, they voted on argument. He could easily conceive that a man might not like to sit out a long argument, or what was worse, along speech without any argument at all; but he could not conceive the propriety of a member coming in and voting on the conclusive-ness or inconclusiveness of evidence which he had not heard. Recollecting what had taken place in former committees, he was convinced that the course now pointed out would be a great saving of time and expense to parties connected with private bills, and he hoped the House would consent to it as an experiment. If it succeeded, the resolutions could be made part of the standing orders. If it failed, they would not be in a worse situation than they were at present.Mr. Yates Peel
l157 admitted that great inconvenience arose from the former course with respect to private bills, but the one now proposed would, he thought, be much worse, and therefore he would give it all the opposition in his power. First, with respect to the hundred and twenty members to be on a committee, he thought it would be extremely difficult to obtain that number, unless they resorted to the former objectionable course of having members named on different committees sitting at the same time. Last session, there were thirty committees on private bills sitting at the same time. How could such a number be provided for in the mode proposed? The hon. mover seemed to think that it would be extremely difficult to get a select committee oft each
l157Colonel Davies
 admitted that some remedy was necessary, but could not concur in that now proposed. He thought it would be absurd to prevent members from doing that in a committee; namely, voting on subjects which they had not heard discussed, which was ever permitted to them in the House.Mr. Maberly
152 said, that seeing the disinclination of the House to entertain this petition, he felt it to be his duty to yield to the suggestion of the
152Mr. Alderman Waithman
161lll160159 said, that as it was admitted that the present system of private committees was extremely defective, he thought the hon. member who had endeavoured to introduce some amendment was entitled to thanks, and he, for one, thanked him, though at the same time he did not think the remedy pointed out was such as the case required. Indeed, he did not see how the House, without passing a censure on itself, could sanction resolutions founded on alleged corruption in committees of its own members. He knew that in speaking of any thing which passed in the present parliament, he must be particularly guarded. He should be careful, therefore, of what he said of the living, but a much greater latitude was allowed him with respect to the dead. And, speaking of the late parliament, he would complain, and that loudly, of the conduct of some members of it, for their very unjust and partial conduct in a committee or a private bill. A petition had been presented from the corporation of London against the Equitable Loan bill, and it was referred to the committee on that bill; and though the preamble of that bill asserted that it would be a public benefit, and though the petitioners offered to prove that it would be greatly injurious to the trade of London, and had prayed to be heard by themselves or their agents, the committee at first decided that they ought, not to be heard; and on the singular ground, that the petitioners had no interest in opposing the bill. How different was such conduct from that pursued
161lll160159Mr. Alderman Waithman
l162 said, that, though he was by no means so satisfied as the hon. gentleman opposite seemed to be, of the gross misconduct of the committees on private bills, still it was his intention to vote in favour of the resolutions of his hon. friend, as a precautionary experiment, for the present session, against any misconduct that might by possibility arise. He did not believe the committees on private bills to be that mass of corruption which some members asserted them to be. There might have been some cases, in which members who had not been present at the evidence, had entered the committee-room, and overwhelmed the voices of those who had been present; but he had not heard of any instance of gross injustice in their disposal of private property. The worthy alderman had said, that as the last parliament was dead he had a right to abuse it; but, though that parliament was dead, the members who composed it were living, and he, as one of them, must beg leave to vindicate its conduct. What the present parliament might turn out, he could not tell; but with the benefit of the worthy alderman's bright example, he had no doubt but that it would be much better than that of which he had spoken with so much reprobation. Though he he could not agree in every point with the proposed resolutions, he must repeat that he was not unwilling to adopt them as a precautionary experiment for the present session. His reason for so doing was not founded so much on the misconduct of the committees on private bills, as upon the standing orders themselves. He disapproved of the method of referring private bills to the consideration of a committee formed of the members of that county to which the bill applied, and the adjoining counties, because the number of persons on such a committee varied very greatly. In the case of the county of Derby, the number of members for that and the adjoining counties, to whom private bills might be referred, was 80. In the county of Warwick the number was 87; in that of Leicester 69; and in that of Staffordshire 66; and he
l162Mr. Secretary Peel
164 said, he much doubted the propriety of this resolution, and hoped the hon. gentleman would postpone it until it could be more maturely considered. He understood on a former evening, that one of the great objections urged against the resolutions of his noble friend (lord Althorp) relative to bribery at elections,
164Mr. G. Lamb
154153 rose for the purpose of submitting to the House certain Resolutions on the subject of Committees on Private Bills. They were, he observed, the same as those which he had submitted in the last session of the last parliament. It was not his intention, at present, to propose that they should form part of the standing orders of the House; but merely that they should continue in force during the present session, by way of experiment. If, at the end of that time, they should be found to have answered the object in view, it would be for the House afterwards to decide whether they should be enrolled amongst its general standing orders. As there were many members in this parliament who, he supposed, were not acquainted with the reasons which had urged the introduction of those resolutions in the last session, he would briefly state, that it had in that session been found necessary to provide some remedy for what was admitted to be an evil in the mode of carrying private bills through the committees. Complaints had been unsparingly made against the conduct of many members; and it was alleged, that very many of them had voted on committees where their own interests were concerned. He was aware that most of such complaints rested on very weak foundations; that they were frequently made by parties who had been foiled in the prosecution of improper projects; and sometimes were urged by professional men, who felt their character at stake by the course they had advised in the prosecution of those measures. Still, however, it could not be denied, that there were some instances in which members, either by the influence of personal interest, or by other causes, had suffered themselves to be warped from the straight line of their duty. This undoubtedly was an evil, and an evil for which it was necessary that some remedy should be provided. A private bill, it should be recollected, called for the suspension of some general law in a case alleged and presumed to be
154153Mr. Littleton
l suggested the propriety of giving a power to wave that part of the resolutions which rendered it necessary to deposit 500lMr. G. Bankes
 said, there was no analogy between election committees and committees on private bills; for the questions submitted to the first were mixed questions of law and fact, while those submitted to the latter were questions of policy and expediency. He did not believe that any such extent of evil as was now pretended had arisen from the misconduct of private committees; and he was of opinion, that they were oftener prejudiced against advantageous bills than biassed in favour of improper bills by unworthy motives. It had been suggested, that the nomination of the committees by ballot would often exclude from them useful local knowledge. He was himself' of that opinion, and would have great difficulty in believing that fifteen gentle- men of Hampshire could legislate easily on the local interests of Northumberland. He conceived that great advantage would arise from acceding to the resolutions. ' At present it was prudent to bring them in experimentally. If, upon trial, they ' should be found beneficial, they might be made standing orders of the House. The injury done by committees on private bills was not, in his opinion, great, but the scandal of them was extreme; for supposing the committees to come to a right decision, still, if it were seen that numbers, who had not previously attended, flocked in to give their vote, it never could give satisfaction to the parties defeated by it, and thus became detrimental to the dignity and character of the House.Mr. Wynn
 looked upon the proposition embraced by the resolution, as similar to a case of arbitration, where the parties contending agreed to abide by any order or award which might be decided on by those to whom the matter in dispute was referred.Mr. Wynn
 said, it was contrary to all rule that the House could entertain this petition. Besides other obvious objections to its being received, the petition referred to certain debates which had taken place in that House, and hon. gentlemen must be aware that such a proceeding was highly irregular.Mr. Wynn
163 said, that though he had
163Mr. W. Smith
 was of opinion, that the petition was one which the House could not with propriety entertain. In the first place, if the petitioner complained of the conduct of certain hon. members by name, it was but just and reasonable that those members should have had due notice of the charge against them. If, in the second place, the petitioner made a general complaint, how was it possible to say which of the 658 members were meant to be accused? The petition, moreover, referred to certain unauthorized reports of the proceedings of the House, which could only find their way to the public by a breach of privilege. An affidavit was also referred to by the petitioner; but, could the House depart so far from its established usage as to admit affidavits in one shape and not in another? Under all the circumstances, he was of opinion that the petition was one that could not be received by the House, and he therefore recommended the hon. alderman to withdraw it, and, if he pleased, to bring it forward in an amended form.The Speaker
 wished to ask the hon. alderman whether the petition implicated any member of that House by name.The Speaker
l158 observed, that it was agreed on all hands that the present system required amendment, and the question was what course ought they to adopt. It was said, that the better way to proceed would be by a select committee on each private bill. That, he admitted, would be an improvement on the present mode, but he thought it would be extremely difficult to procure as many select committees as the number of private bills would require. It was said that they had no difficulty in procuring election committees. That might be the fact; but those committees were not often required. If their appointment was to run through a whole parliament as frequently as committees on private bills, it would, he thought, be a matter of some difficulty to procure the attendance of members. As to the nomination of sixty members from the counties adjoining that with which the object of
l158Lord Althorp
in limine174 said, that as a member of
in limine174Mr. Bailey
175 said, he rose for the purpose of bringing back the attention of the House to the real question before them; from which it appeared to him that they were in some degree departing. There were two questions arising out of this petition. The first was, whether it was proper to accede to the prayer of the petition; the second, whether it was proper to receive the petition. With respect to the first question, he certainly
175Mr. Secretary Peel
179 said, that he held the present question to be of such serious consequence, that he could not allow it to pass without offering a few words to the consideration of the House. The present occasion brought to his memory the words of a once distinguished member of that House, Mr. Grenville, who had declared, that he looked upon every case of contested election, brought before the House of Commons, as a case of the utmost importance, in which the property and birth right of every subject of the realm were at stake, and in which it, therefore, behoved the House to act with the greatest caution. If he entertained this feeling upon all cases of election, he entertained it more strongly than ever in this particular instance, where the House was going to pass a judgment which would form a precedent in one of the most important parts of its jurisdiction. He was, therefore, much obliged to the hon. and learned gentleman who had brought the subject before the notice of the House, for the manner in which he had done so. At the time when the hon. and learned gentleman first brought it forward, he thought his argument particularly clear and convincing. In the interval which had elapsed between that time and the present, he had taken great pains to inform his mind upon the subject; and, though he still hoped that the House would assent to the proposition which the hon. and learned member had made to it, he did not think that there was so clear a case as to make it necessary to take proceedings against any other parties. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to review the points in which he considered the last return to be informal, and cited a great many cases on the subject, which
179Mr. Stuart Wortley
180 said, he could not offer his opinion upon this important subject without first expressing the great pleasure which he felt in finding that a subject so dry and tedious had attracted the attention of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. The talent and industry, of which the hon. gentleman had just given the House so striking a specimen, would, he had no doubt, be productive of great advantage to their discussions whenever the hon. gentleman should apply himself to a subject which admitted at once of research and display. He did not regret the time which the House had taken to come to a decision on this question; because it was one of great importance, and therefore, required mature deliberation. When it was first presented to their notice, he thought that the latter return could not be considered a valid return; and the consideration which he had since given to it, had satisfied him of the correctness of that opinion, and of the propriety of ordering that the indenture containing it should be taken off the file. He contended, that to follow any other course would be to furnish a precedent fraught with danger. The House was aware that in all election returns, a great responsibility was imposed on the sheriffs of counties. They were required to use their best discretion; the House being ready to give them every indulgence in cases where they used it honestly but erroneously, and to punish them whenever they used it partially and improperly. Now, the sure way for a sheriff to escape from a responsibility to which he ought to be liable was, to send up, besides the regular return annexed to the writ, another paper, not annexed to it, received from some other person than the regular returning officer, and then to leave the House to decide which of the returns was the proper return. He maintained, that the sheriff was bound, in all cases, to make either a single return or a double return to the writ, and no other. He was not prepared to say whether the sheriff might not make two returns annexed to the writ. It was, fortunately unnecessary to decide that question in this particular case, as the sheriff had declined to do so: and such being the case, he thought that the House was
180Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that if the original documents and the entries agreed, he should certainly follow up his present motion by another for taking off the file the second indenture.Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, that his intention in calling in the clerk of the Crown, was to demand from him the original returns, and not to ask him any question. The conduct of that officer had not been impugned, and therefore did not require any explanation. He should merely ask him if the returns he produced were the original returns, and he would then leave the House to exercise its own discretion.Mr. Peel
 continued. If the petitioner did not believe in a future state, what assurance had the country, that any form of oath would be binding upon him? If such a person presented himself to seek redress before a magistrate, and refused to comply with the form prescribed by the law of England, the magistrate must tell him, "then, Sir, I have no power to administer any other form of oath than that which the law points out." Such must be the reply in all similar cases. No magistrate could, and he hoped that no magistrate ever would, deviate from a rule that was founded in sound and constitutional principles.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
173 said, he felt con-
173Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 said, that if he were permitted to make one or two observations at this stage of the debate, they would, in all probability, save the time of the House from being unnecessarily wasted. The right hon. Secretary had rested the case on its proper grounds. The sheriff had a right to receive, or to reject, both returns made to him; but then he must annex them both to the writ, and must not venture upon any middle course. He had no difficulty in agreeing to the proposition of the right hon. gentleman; but he must say this on his own behalf, that the peculiar advantage of the course which he had suggested was, that, it did not strike at the Grenville act, but was content with the evidence upon the table, which was in its very nature conclusive. If it should be the pleasure of the House to call in the clerk of the Crown to produce the original returns, and if that measure, on their being found to agree with the entries in the book, should be followed up by another motion, acceding substantially to that which he had himself brought forward, he could have no objection to urge against such a mode of proceeding.Mr. Abercromby
184 perfectly agreed with the right hon. Secretary as to the course to be pursued when the clerk of the Crown was called in. He was happy, for the sake of individuals sitting in that House, as well as for the sheriff and the clerk of the Crown, that the House had come to a clear and decided expression of opinion on this question. He had no reason to complain of the conduct of Mr. Wilbraham, the deputy clerk of the Crown, and, under all the circumstances, as he saw no necessity for proceeding further, he would, with the permission of the House, withdraw his motion.184Mr. Abercromby
 expressed a wish that the petition should be read, in order to set the learned serjeant right as to the petitioner's belief.Mr. Hume
178 observed, that the petition itself was a complete answer to the learned serjeant. With respect to the argument of the hon. gentleman under the gallery, against allowing a Deist to take an oath, he would ask that hon. gentleman what was a Jew, but a Deist? According to the hon. gentleman's principle, a Jew ought not to be allowed to be sworn. The argument of the hon. gentleman, therefore, was directed against the existing statutes. As to the hon. baronet, it really appeared to be very strange, that a gentleman who had for such a length of time, in Ceylon, been administering oaths to men who did not believe in the Christian revelation, should now say, that he would not believe a Deist on his oath. With respect to the introduction of any future measure on this subject, he did not intend to bring in any, but he confessed it was his opinion that some such measure ought to be introduced. He desired to see religious scruples respected by the House and the law of the land put on a liberal footing, in that respect. At one period England set an example of liberality to the world, and he hoped that the time was not far distant when she would again resume the lead, and not be as she was unhappily at present, rather following than guiding the spirit of the age.178Mr. Hume
 here intimated, that the petitioner did believe in a future state.Mr. Hume
172 said, he had an important petition to present, in which the rights of a British subject, and the cause of civil and religious liberty, were deeply concerned. The right of which the petitioner complained he was deprived, was that enjoyment of religious freedom which it was consistent with the spirit and practice of the British constitution that every British subject should possess. The petitioner was Mr. Robert Taylor, who had been canonically ordained a clergyman of the established church. He was also a Bachelor of Arts of St. John's College, Cambridge. He stated in his petition, that after the most mature consideration, he could not give a conscientious credence to the doctrines of Christianity. That this was the result of a conscientious conviction on the part of the petitioner, was shewn by his having resigned a cure, which he held in a parish in Suffolk, in consequence of his sincere disbelief in the tenets of the established church. The petitioner further stated, that he arrived at that state of mind that he could conscientiously declare himself a Deist. He declared, that in various instances those who were of the same faith with him had experienced hardship and injury from being deprived of protection in courts of law, on account of the profession of Deism. This was the more a subject of just complaint, as under the act of Toleration they were entitled to protection, unless their mode of faith was opposed to morality, or was inimical to the interests of the state. The petitioner set forth an example of the hardship experienced by persons professing Deism, in the instance of a shopman of Mr. Carlile, who was prevented from prosecuting in a court of justice, in consequence of his adherence to the tenets of Deism—and because he
172Sir. Hume
183182 said, he was anxious to explain how far he went along with the hon. and learned gentleman, and how far he differed from him on this important question. He put out of the way all observations on the manner of executing the return—on its being executed by the deputy mayor, and on its being executed by a different person from that to whom the precept was directed, because, if there was any validity in those observations, they ought to be received in the shape of a petition. The hon. gentleman who had done himself so much credit that evening by the research which he had displayed on the present abstract question, had adverted to a resolution of the House in which it was stated, that the House would look to the substance, and not to the form, of a return. Now, he would say at once, that, in the present instance, he did not think it necessary that the return should be annexed to the writ. It was true that the statute required that the returns for counties should be attached to the writ, but it said nothing of a similar nature with
183182Mr. Wynn
176 observed, that the remarks which had fallen from the right hon. Secretary afforded another proof o that prudence and moderation for which he had so much distinguished himself. He regretted that the right hon. gentleman had not, by speaking earlier in the discussion, set the example of those excellent qualities to the two honourable members who had spoken on his side. One of those hon. gentlemen wag, as yet, but a very young member, and no doubt, when he had more experience in that House, he would learn to discuss subjects with a little more temper. With respect to the other hon. member, he thought, that if he had practised as a judge in this country, as long as he had done abroad, he would have made a distinction between receiving a petition and complying with its request. He was sorry to find hon. members confounding the opinions of an Atheist with those of a Deist. He knew not that an Atheist could give any sanction to an oath; but he believed that a Deist could, and he had no hesitation in asserting, that the interests of justice were much more likely to suffer from the oath of a man who swore on the gospels, which he
176Mr. W. Smith
 expressed his horror that any gentleman, educated in a Christian country, could be found to entertain the doctrine stated in the petition, and to claim a right to be sworn in courts of justice upon the Works of Nature. The fact was, that the case of the petitioner was not the case of Deism. He was sorry to say, it was nothing short of Atheism; for it attempted to set up the works of nature, in contradistinction to the works of the Deity. He had often, in the course, of his life, administered oaths to the Persian worshippers of fire, and to other idolaters in the East, who did not believe in Christianity, and he had done it by that form which they held binding; but certainly, nothing should induce him to administer an oath to a Deist, on what the petitioner was pleased to call the "works of nature."Sir E. Carrington
 concurred in every thing which had fallen from his hon. friend, respecting the impartiality with which his royal highness the duke of York administered the patronage of the army. The place which he had occupied for many years on the opposition benches, and which he expected he should retain as long as he had a seat in parliament, had never made any difference in the attention which his royal highness had thought fit to bestow on himself and the different members of his family who were in the army. If his political opinions had produced any effect on the royal duke's mind, he believed that it was to pay greater attention to him than he would, perhaps, have bestowed on a political adherent.Sir R. Fergusson
197 Said, that he had now made up his mind as to the course which he should pursue. That course was, to submit a motion to the House on the subject of Joint-stock companies generally, and without reference to the conduct of any individual in particular. In case it should be carried, he had made up his mind to inquire into the origin and progress of the Arigna Company; into the conduct of the directors of that company; and, indeed, into the conduct of the directors of all other companies. He now gave distinct notice, that, immediately after the recess, he would bring these Joint-stock companies under the notice of the House. It was not from any wish to consult his own convenience that he postponed his motion till after the holidays; but he had had com-
197Mr. Alderman Waithman
198 said, that if he understood rightly what the worthy alderman had said, when he first brought this subject under the notice of parliament, he declared his intention of bringing a specific charge of misconduct against the hon. member who had formerly filled the situation of chairman of their committees. Now, however, that the hon. member had declined to sit in that chair, so long as any charges were hanging over his head unrefuted, the worthy alderman shifted his ground, and said, that instead of bringing a specific motion against any individual member, he would bring forward a general motion against a large number of members who had also misconducted themselves. If there were any foundation for charges so materially affecting the honour of the House, he would ask the worthy alderman, why he did not bring them forward immediately? Were such calumnies against the House collectively, and its members individually, to go abroad for months uncontradicted and uhrefuted? Justice demanded that the worthy alderman should forthwith produce his charges against the directors of what he was pleased to call these fraudulent companies. The House ought not to forget, that many of those companies, fraudulent and ruinous as they were now termed, had been sanctioned by its approbation; that where a charter had not been obtained for them, it had given them leave to sue and be sued by their secretaries; and that it had also distinctly declared, that after having given them such power, it would not be responsible for the use to which the managers of the company might put it. He conceived that the insinuations which the
198Mr. Maberly
200 said, that he was now placed in a similar situation to that in which he had been placed the first time he had the honour of a seat in parliament. He had then brought forward a complaint against the constitution and management of the Court for the relief of Insolvent Debtors; and, in consequence of his exertions, that Court, as then constituted, was knocked up. He recollected, however, that after he had brought forward that complaint, the prosecution of it was taken out of his hands, and committed to the care of a select committee. He wished that some gentleman would now propose to do that which had been done to him on the former occasion, and would institute, by means of a committee, the inquiry which he had pointed out. He thought he had been very unfairly used on this question. He took it up, not on private, but on general grounds. [Cries
200Mr. Alderman Waithman
 thought, that the country was highly indebted to the right hon. gentleman for the liberal course which he had hitherto pursued. He wished to know what was the object of the present motion; for, if it was to obtain a select committee, to whom was to be referred the question of the importation duties; he should certainly oppose the appointment of any such committee, until after the question of the Corn-laws had been finally settled. Until that question was decided, he was convinced the trade of this country could only be partially affected by other measures.Mr. Alderman Thompson
205204ss, in rising to second the motion, said, he was convinced, that the more a person was acquainted with the details of the importation of foreign articles into this country, the more he would be convinced that the system of free trade had been very imperfectly carried into effect. In the article of foreign timber, with which he was better acquainted than with some of the imported articles, he knew that the duty imposed was not only very heavy, but was very inconveniently levied. The price of good timber in the Baltic was about 18205204ssMr. Warburton
 protested against the principle, that British manufacturers wanted any protection. All they required was, that their energies should not be oppressed and destroyed by enormous and unnecessary duties. We could not export our agricultural produce in return for importations of foreign manufactures, since that produce was nearly 50 per cent, dearer than any other in the world. We must, therefore, either export our manufactures, or pay money for goods imported. If there was a free trade to-morrow, our manufacturers might meet all the world; and their knowledge and skill, their capital and their machinery, would give them a decided advantage. But, then, the Corn-laws destroyed these means of superiority; and, until the question of those laws was settled, the prosperity of England stood but on a foundation of sand. He should not detain the House further, as he had merely risen to enter his protest against the supposition, that, of themselves, the British manufacturers required any protection against foreign competition.Colonel Torrens
195 defended the recent regulations. He contended, that there were not officers on the half-pay list sufficient to fill up the different situations of daily necessity. The half-pay list ought not to be considered as a matter of economy, so much as a matter of utility. Instead of placing officers from it upon the full-pay, it would often be more advantageous to the service to place officers upon it from the full-pay. There was, in one regiment, an ensign who was sixty-one years of age, and several officers who were not much younger. He defended the propriety of the regulation made re-
195General Gascoyne
199 said, it was undoubtedly out of order for him to address the House again; but he trusted to its indulgence, whilst he said a few words upon a point which so materially affected his character. He was surprised that the worthy alderman had so misunderstood the communication which had passed between them. The worthy alderman had told him, that on Monday last he would inform him of the course which he intended to pursue. He then stated, that he did not intend to bring forward his threatened motion, which would be of a general nature, until after the recess. "I told him," continued Mr. Brogden, "that such a proceeding was cruel to myself and unjust to the House; that his first motion was personal
199Mr. Brogden
 rose, and addressed the House with a degree of agitation which rendered him almost inaudible. He begged to call the respectful attention of the House to a few observations. The House was aware that an hon. alderman, whom he now saw in his place, had threatened to bring his conduct, in respect to a certain company, of which he had been a director, under its consideration. He was placed in a peculiarly unfortunate situation, in not knowing, first of all, what charges were to be preferred against him, and next, at what time they were to be brought forward. He had applied on the subject to the hon. alderman, who had told him, that he did not yet know what course he should feel it expedient to pursue. He therefore thought it right to inform the House once again, that he was most anxious that an inquiry should be instituted into his conduct, not only with regard to the Arigna Mining Company, but with regard to every other company with which he had been connected.Mr. Brogden
194 said, that he rose for the purpose of saying a word as to the manner in which the patronage of the army was exercised by the present commander-in-chief. He thought it right, as a member of opposition, to say, that he could bear testimony to the fair and impartial manner in which his royal highness, the duke of York, administered the patronage of the army. He could speak of it, not only with regard to his own family, but also with regard to the families of other opposition members with whom he was acquainted. It was impossible for any individual to dispose more impartially of patronage than his royal highness. If the manner in which the patronage of the army was disposed of were compared with the manner in which the patronage of the navy was disposed of, the comparison would be highly advantageous to the duke of York. He felt it to be his duty to make this statement, because he differed widely in general politics from his royal highness,
194Mr. Calcraft
190189l188187lllll186llllllll185l rose, pursuant to notice, to bring before the attention of the House a subject of considerable importance, in moving for returns of all officers who have been permitted to sell their full-pay, half-pay, and brevet commissions, since the last return in March; also a return of the money received and paid for the same. It would be necessary for him to recall the attention of the House to the steps taken by a noble lord (Castlereagh), now no more, in the year 1817, exertions in which the House anxiously co-operated, to establish a distinction between the effective and non-effective military establishments, and to provide means for the support of non-effective establishments, in such a manner as might relieve the country from maintaining them as a heavy and permanent burthen. In 1817, as appeared from an abstract of the amount of half-pay, superannuated allowances, civil and military, the amount chargeable to the army was 2,800,000190189l188187lllll186llllllll185lMr. Hume
196, in proposing his next resolution, commented on the statement made by the gallant member for Liverpool; namely, that there was in the British army an ensign of sixty-one years of age. He would ask the gallant general how long that individual had served? Was it twenty, thirty, or forty years? Let it be which it might, the fact of his remaining an ensign after so long a period of service, was one of the greatest reproaches that could be uttered against the management of the army. He had never accused the duke of York of partiality in administering the patronage of the army. On the contrary, he had admitted that it was fairly exercised, and had said that it was not to the man, but to the system that he objected. All he had done was, to object to his having the power of bestowing patronage, and in such a channel as increased the half-pay list, which the House had shown an anxiety to reduce. Could it be right that the country should have the same half-pay list in the tenth year of peace that we had in 1816. With regard to the comparative abuse of patronage in the two services, he would say, that the abuse in the navy was to that in the army in the ratio of ten to one. He could prove that mere boys at school had been placed in command of ships, when the officers whom they commanded were lieutenants. That was a species of abuse which cried aloud for correction. The hon. member then moved for "a return of all Officer who have purchased the
196Mr. Hume
207206 said, that as he did not feel the least wish to object to the account for which the hon. baronet had called, and as he did not think this a fit occasion to enter into the subject of the importation duties, he should make but a few observations on the question. He was of opinion, that the great principles which regulated, or which ought to regulate, the commercial policy of this and of other countries, required a more solemn consideration than could be given to them at the present moment; and believing this, he hoped he should stand excused to the House for saying, that it seemed to him the fitter
207206Mr. Huskisson
 asked the hon. alderman, whether he wished to have his intended motion entered in the book of notices.The Speaker
 said, he should not have troubled the House with any observations, had it not been for the attack which had been made on those who distributed the patronage of the navy. He conceived such attack to be most unfounded, and could bear testimony to the impartiality with which promotion was dispensed amongst the deserving officers of that service.Sir C. Cole
203202lslldsslsldslddssldslad valorem201 rose for the purpose of moving for returns of the quantities of Foreign Goods imported into the United Kingdom in the years 1824 and 1826. The object of his motion was, to ascertain what had been the effect of the act that was passed in 1825, for altering the law in respect to the importation of foreign productions. It was commonly supposed that this act had established a free trade; but nothing could be more erroneous than such a supposition. The speech with which the President of the Board of Trade introduced that act had led to this opinion; but the act corresponded very little with the principles laid down in that speech; for the new duties were all kept so high,
203202lslldsslsldslddssldslad valorem201Sir Henry Parnell
193192191 said, that although he did not intend to object to the motion of the hon. member, he would remind the House of the peculiar circumstances which led to the regulation of 1825. The object of it was not so much to save money to the public as to give a scope for promotion in the army. The only expense which it could occasion was the contingent expense of substituting new lives for old ones, in some few isolated cases. The hon. member had objected to the largeness of the half-pay list; but he ought to have recollected, that a large half-pay list was the I necessary consequence of the large establishments which the country had been obliged to maintain during the long and arduous struggle in which it had been engaged. There were but two modes of diminishing that list; namely, the death of the individuals placed upon it, or their appointment to full-pay. Now the House must be aware, that among the retired
193192191Lord Palmerston
 said, that in stating that there had been a wish expressed, that the subject should not be brought forward until after the holidays, he certainly did not allude to the hon. member but to a right hon. gentleman over the way. It was by no means with a view to his own convenience, that he had suggested the postponement. It was to meet the wishes of others: but, perceiving that a disposition to accommodate was sometimes productive of greater inconvenience than the adherence to an original plan, he was determined to exercise his own discretion, and bring the subject before the House on Tuesday.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 took the opportunity, seeing the President of the Board of Control in his place, of asking whether it was the intention of ministers to introduce any measure respecting the Currency, in consequence of what had taken place in the Committee on the Small Note Bill in the last session of the last parliament?Lord Folkestone
208 said, that in consequence of what had passed in the House last evening, he was induced to give notice, that on Tuesday next, he would submit a motion, for an inquiry into the formation
208Mr. Alderman Waithman
l212211210209 said, he thought the
l212211210209Lord Folkestone
 expressed his satisfaction at the postponement of the consideration of the corn question. The appearance of things indicated the probability of a scarcity; and, if so, by the spring, the evil of protracting the existence of the present laws on the subject would be too manifest to be denied by any one.Colonel Torrens
218lll217 said, that the two motions which he intended to bring forward that evening, were so connected with each other, that he would take the opportunity of making at once all the remarks with which he deemed it necessary to introduce them. One of the motions was only the revival of a motion, which he had himself introduced in 1820, and which he had intended to have followed up by another motion, had not his right to sit in parliament been cut away by a decision which convinced him that the conclusions drawn by election committees were not always infallible. Since the year 1820, no notice had been taken of the subject to which he had called the attention of the House, though it was one of great importance, and referred to abuses, which were deeply rooted in the system of the law as at present administered, and which operated injuriously on the individuals who were made the victims of them. There could not be found a more decided proof of the advantages arising out of the interference of parliament, than that afforded by the results of his motion. It appeared that from the year 1816 down to the year 1819, both inclusive, being a period of four years, previous to any notice being taken of the number of prosecutions instituted under the customs and excise laws, the average number of informations filed each year was 700; whilst during the year in which attention was called to the subject, and during the year immediately following, the average number did not exceed 250. From such a statement of facts, he in-
218lll217Mr. D. W. Harvey
215 maintained, that the first subject that ought to be considered, was the best mode of placing the currency on a more stable footing; and that with regard to the price of corn, or of any other commodity, it was useless to discuss it, while one of the principal elements of that price remained unfixed.
215Mr. E. D. Davenport
 said, that the hon. member's motion called only for a return of the number of causes set down for trial, which was not in itself sufficient. The House ought to be informed how long the court was occupied in hearing interlocutory motions. He thought, therefore, that a more extensive motion was necessary. He could assure the House that the judges of the court of Exchequer were anxious that that court should be made an efficient court, and that they would willingly lend their assistance to any measure which would prevent it from being branded as a receptacle for sinecurists, by giving it an active and extensive jurisdiction.Mr. Spence
 said, he felt personally obliged at the announcement of an early day for bringing forward a motion, in which his character was so deeply concerned. He felt the same confidence that he had before expressed, as to his coming out of the inquiry with an unsullied reputation. He had seen in a report of the proceedings of the House of last evening, in which it was stated, that it was intimated to the worthy alderman by him, that he wished the subject should not be brought forward, until after the holidays. He now called upon the worthy alderman to do him the justice to say, that he had never concurred in such an understanding.Mr. Brogden
216 objected to the postponement, and observed, that ministers were bound to state to the House the course which they intended to propose on the corn question. As long as this was unknown, the country would be kept in a state of suspense, highly injurious to all parties. No man was safe in entering into any transaction connected with the purchase or sale of land, while he was ignorant of what might be the future proceeding on that question. He therefore regretted the delay, and for the very same reasons on which the gallant colonel had founded the expression of a contrary sentiment. It was said, that every day would show more and more the impolicy of those laws. He expected that various meetings would be held in different parts of the country, some to obtain their repeal and others to obtain protection for the landed interest. At those meetings he anticipated that violent and intemperate language would be used by both parties, and more particularly by that party which sought to alter the present system. That this would be the natural effect of postponing the discussion, no man of any reflection would venture to deny. Various meetings had been held at different places; and he must particularly mention the one held in the Common-hall of London, in which the landlords had been branded with the name of monopolists, and other
216Mr. Benett
220 thought, that if the judge who tried the information, were to certify that there was no cause for filing it, the Crown should pay the defendant his costs. If such certificates were given by the judges, they would bring before the notice of the public the conduct of those who had the power of filing the informations. The reason why so little business was transacted in the court of Exchequer was, that an attorney could not practise there in his own name, but was obliged to practise in the name of one of the side clerks. He received, therefore, only half fees; and that was the reason why he went in preference to the court, of King's-bench, where he received whole fees. He thought it would be of great advantage to the public to get rid of these side clerks altogether. He supposed they had a vested interest in their situations, and that therefore the House must indemnify them for the loss they would sustain by the abolition of their offices. When they were got rid of, the court might be thrown open, and so be made to relieve the other courts from the pressure now thrown upon them. He was anxious that some attention should be paid to the internal arrangements of this court.; for some years ago, several mal-practices were detected among its officers, and that he had himself brought forward a motion on the subject. It was
220Mr. Lockhart
219 seconded the motion. He
219Mr. Hume
214213 observed, that the noble lord had discovered more in the answer which he had returned to the noble lord's question, than that answer really implied. The noble lord had asked him, whether it was intended to renew the committee of last session on the Small Notes bill, or to take any steps with regard to the report which had been presented by that committee. His answer was, that he was not prepared to inform the noble lord whether or not it was intended by government to propose either the renewal of the committee, or the adoption of any proceedings founded on their report. From that answer the noble lord chose to infer prematurely that no steps whatever would actually be taken. He again stated, that his majesty's government had not had an opportunity of considering if it was necessary or not to renew the committee in question; and, therefore, he was not prepared to say whether they would do so, or whether they would take any steps on the report already presented. The noble lord expressed his surprise, that when a report had been presented in a former session, on a subject involving questions of the greatest public interest, his majesty's government ten days after the meeting of parliament on a special occasion, and at an unusual period, declined any proceeding on that subject until after the recess.
214213Mr. Huskisson
 said, that he was not at that moment prepared to reply to the question of the noble lord,Mr. Huskisson
ll said, that, on the whole, he thought great benefit would result, if the House laid down some specific rule, in accordance with which an appeal might be made against the decision of a committee, instead of leaving the matter in so indefinite a shape as the present resolution did. The resolutions, generally, went to purify the constitution of committees; and therefore appeals were likely to be less numerous than they otherwise would be. But he hoped, if it appeared that injustice had been done to an individual, that he would not be debarred from redress because he could not put down 500llMr. Secretary Peel
l said, his doubts as to the legality of calling on appellants to put down 500lMr. G. Lamb
 was of opinion, that a deposit ought to be required generally, leaving it to the House to depart from that practice in any particular case, if they thought fit. If, however, the House would consent to adjourn the debate to a future day, he would in the interim reconsider his resolution, and endeavour to make such alterations as would obviate the objections which were made to it in its present shape.Mr. Littleton
l"That the party or parties complaining, or their agents, shall, previously to the balloting for such select committee, deposit with the clerk of the fees the sum of 500l225l rose to move the resolution, directing that any individual who appealed from the decision of a committee on a private bill, should, in the first instance, deposit the sum of 500l"That the party or parties complaining, or their agents, shall, previously to the balloting for such select committee, deposit with the clerk of the fees the sum of 500l225lMr. Littleton
 observed, that a great part of the argument against the resolutions of the noble member for Northamptonshire (lord Althorp), with respect to bribery at elections, on a former evening, turned on the right of the House to award costs; and he could not easily divide the two cases. In his opinion, the final decision with respect to costs should not be left with the committee; and therefore he thought it would be right, supposing the House to be favourable to the resolution, that these words, "unless the House should otherwise direct," or words to that purport, should be added. By this alteration an opportunity would be given to the House to remedy any wrong, or to rectify any error, in the adjudication of costs, which might be committed by the select committee. He was aware that this ultimate appeal to the House might occasionally take up a considerable portion of their time; but it appeared to him, that the interests of justice required such a course.Mr. G. Bankes
 contended, that it was evident, from a former petition presented by the individuals whose names were subscribed to this petition, that they did not claim a right to vote at the last election. He therefore thought that the order made on the petition ought to be discharged.Mr. Goulburn
ll227ll felt the proposition for a deposit of 500ll227llMr. Calcraft
 thought it only fair that time should be allowed to the petitioners to amend their petition.Mr. Hume
224 said, that he had before stated the rule of the House, and the law of the country on all cases, like the present. Such petitions by law could only be received from those who were candidates at the election, or from those who claimed a right to vote for them. That was the rule of parliament, and indeed the law of the land, until the time of the Grenville act. The right of petitioning was thrown open by that act to all persons. Considerable inconvenience, however, being found to arise from the practice, the former rule was revived. In all points relating to the reception of petitions, it was the duty of the House to lean to the side of the petitioners; but, in cases like the present, the words of the act were imperative, and the House was bound to abide by them. There was one point to which he wished to call the attention of the House; and that was, that any decision to which they might that night come was not final, and that the election committee to which it might be referred would have the power of deciding whether it came under the head of an election petition or not. He needed only to refer to the decision in the Nottingham case; where, in the middle of the trial, it was discovered that the petitioners who had described themselves as freeholders of the town and county of Nottingham were not such, and therefore were not entitled to vote for the election of members for the said borough. If the House were to send to an election committee the present petition, not being such as an election committee could take cognizance of, it would be making a heavy infliction on both parties, owing to the expenses which they would have to incur in bringing their witnesses to England. He mentioned that circumstance, in order to show that the course which it ought to follow was chalked out by the act of parliament, and that there was nothing in the particular features of the case to induce it to transgress that course. Now, from the petition itself, it did not appear that the petitioners were electors. They did not say that they themselves bad a right to vote—all that
224Mr. Wynn
223222 said, he hoped the House would permit him to draw its attention to the petition which had been received last week from the borough of Athlone. On Saturday last, he had told the House that such a petition had been presented, and had requested its assistance in deciding whether it came within the restrictions which were requisite to constitute it an election petition. The restrictions, as the House well knew, rendered it necessary that the petitioners should be persons who claimed to be either candidates or voters. Now, this petition did not describe the petitioners, directly or indirectly, as persons who claimed to be either candidates or voters. A question might be raised upon it; namely, had the petitioners a right to vote? which question they wished to raise by their petition. If the House should be of opinion, that their petition was an election petition, they had nothing to do but to leave it to the usual course of such petitions; but if they should be of a contrary opinion, the House ought to have the petition entered as read, and then some member could move to discharge the order made upon it, and treat it as a mere ordinary petition.223222The Speaker
226in toto said, he would not, as some gentlemen had done, condemn 226in totoSir T. Acland
232231 said, that the noble lord, in bringing forward the petition, had expressed himself in a manner which reflected the highest honour upon his feelings, and which was most creditable to him as the representative of the district in which the distress existed. He could assure the noble lord, that he participated fully in his sympathy for the sufferings of the petitioners. There was no part of the empire, in which distress had been deeply and for any length of time experienced, where the people had evinced a more laudable conduct than in the part of Scotland from which this petition proceeded. Their sufferings had been borne without leading them to deviate from the most exemplary conduct, or to forfeit their high character, although the sufferers were in a very humble sphere of life. It was not possible for more patience and forbearance to be evinced, than had been manifested by these unfortunate people; and he gave this opinion, from having had frequent opportunities of ascertaining their sufferings and of observing their conduct. He well knew how imperfect were sources of private information in cases like the present; but, since the last session, a single week had not passed without his having been in constant communication with the committee now sitting in the country upon the subject. That committee had devoted its attention to the subject, in the most exemplary manner. It had used its most zealous exertions to mitigate the sufferings in that part of Scotland. The noble lord's proposal was, to present a petition, praying for a grant of public money; and he had very properly observed, that the consent of the Crown was necessary to the reception of such a petition by the House. He hoped that the House would not be disposed to enforce its regulation strictly in this particular case. Although the petitioners did in effect pray for a grant of public money, they rather called the attention of the House to a public measure, for which a grant of public money was necessary. He was not quite sure whether this was not a public petition, or that the consent of the Crown was necessary. Were such a consent essential, he should be very unwilling to refuse it. At the same time, he felt peculiarly anxious, that
232231Mr. Secretary Peel
255lll254253***252lllllll251llll250249llllllllllllllllllllllsl248llll247llllll246llsslllllll245l244 said, he laboured under considerable difficulty in bringing forward the motion, of which he had given notice for that evening. If he had to bring forward a motion upon which honourable gentlemen present could feel no observations personal to themselves, he should feel no such difficulty; but he felt it impossible to enter upon this subject without making allusions and remarks which must not only be felt by honourable members themselves, but also create a considerable sensation in the minds of their friends. He wished it, however, to be understood, in the outset, that in the observations which he should feel it his duty to make, it was not his intention to confine himself to one individual, or any number of individuals. And here he begged to set himself right in the opinion of the House, with respect, to an hon. gentleman opposite, as he felt that he had not been fairly dealt with in being called upon to come forward with a specific charge against that hon. gentleman (Mr. Brogden). Indeed, he felt that, upon a subject of such magnitude, it would be invidious to bring a direct charge against any particular member of that House. The only reason why he alluded more especially to the hon. gentleman was, because he had, for some time, held an important office in the appointment of that House, and because he was again to be proposed to fill it. Feeling this, and
255lll254253***252lllllll251llll250249llllllllllllllllllllllsl248llll247llllll246llsslllllll245l244Mr. Alderman Waithman
257256 Canning assured the hon. alderman, that if he announced his intention of moving an amendment to the motion before the House, it was not with any desire to obstruct the object which that proposition had in view, but rather to place it upon a more practicable footing than it stood at present. The hon. alderman had observed, but a few minutes since, to some friends who were suggesting something to him, "that he would be
257256Mr. Secretary
 said, he had no such design in the motion he had submitted to the House.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 disowned any sweeping censures on all Joint-stock companies. In what he had said he had excepted all those which, though of great and unquestionable usefulness, were of too great a magnitude to fall within the compass of individual capital. he also, excepted from all censure, those persons who had merely lent their names to such companies, from an opinion that by so doing they were promoting the interests of the public.Mr. Alderman Waithman
263 dissented from the motion of the worthy alderman, and approved of the amendment, because it appeared to him to be the most practical mode of obtaining the desired object; namely, that of enabling the hon. member who had just sat down to retrieve his character. He could not, however, agree with the right hon. Secretary, that this was the worst case that could have been selected. There were many of them which, from the published statements, for he was not in the country at the period when these schemes were in progress, appeared to him infinitely worse, and more iniquitous in their conduct, than that with which the hon. mem-
263Mr. Fergusson
264 said, he could not but think the House and the country greatly indebted to the hon. alderman, for his industry and public spirit, in exposing the practices of these Joint-stock companies, and on making them the subject of fair and impartial inquiry. The House and the public were especially indebted to him for the statement that night. Thanks were also due to his majesty's ministers for the manner in which they had that night conducted themselves; and his only objection to them, with reference to this subject, was, that they had not taken up the matter, and done something in it at an earlier period. Still he thought, that the House and the public were obliged to them for the candour which they had displayed. The right hon. President of the Board of Trade had remarked, that he had, a considerable time ago, made a declaration against these Joint-stock companies, and pointed out the mischievous results to which they must lead. But, in reality, this declaration had been productive of little good; and he was convinced, that nothing short of a legislative enactment would put a stop to these abuses, and prevent their recurrence in future. Without a strong measure of that description, similar frauds would always prevail. He had, himself, in 1825, warned the House and the country of the mischievous nature of a number of these Joint-stock companies, and had endeavoured to impress upon the minds of members, and upon the public, the per-
264Mr. Hobhouse
269268267l266l265 observed, that the hon. alderman had brought a great many sweeping charges against Joint-stock companies. But Joint-stock companies might be good; and therefore vague, general, and sweeping accusations against them did not deserve much attention. The injustice of denouncing such companies by wholesale had been sufficiently exposed by the right hon. Secretary. Certainly, in a country like this, he was not a little surprised to hear these united efforts of enterprising men branded as they had been; and he was equally surprised at the attempt to extort from these general denunciations a charge against any particular individual. He had listened with great attention to the speech of the worthy alderman, but had listened in vain for any precise or definite accusation. It contained abundance of vague charges, but few or no facts; and even these resting on proof by no means sufficient to impeach any man's
269268267l266l265Mr. Attwood
272 said, in explanation, that nothing was further from his intention, in the allusion he had made, than to have
272Mr. Attwood
 said, that having been connected with one of those companies whose origin and conduct were now the subject of debate, he meant the Equitable-loan company, of which he had been a director, he hoped he might be allowed to offer a few observations, with reference to what had fallen from the hon. alderman regarding that company, and those with whom he had the honour to act. The hon. alderman had said, that every individual connected with the Equitable-loan company had carried on a base traffic in the shares. If this accusation were meant to apply to him, he must take leave to tell the hon. alderman, that it was false. The hon. alderman had added, that the company had been got up for fraudulent objects, and that all those connected with it must have known, and did know, that such was its character. If this imputation were levelled at him, he must assert that it was, in like manner, false and unfounded. He had become connected with the company, because he considered it of a beneficial character; but he had never trafficked in shares; and every engagement that he had entered into, in reference to it, he had fulfilled.Colonel Davies
 said, that as the hon. baronet had affirmed, that he spoke from undeniable authority when he stated, that the Australian company had originated in sonic sinister consideration, on the strength of which it was patronised by the government, he felt it necessary to rise in his place to inform the hon. baronet that he was misled, and that, whatever might be the source of his information, he would do well to distrust it in future. The company had been sanctioned on mature consideration, and the conviction that nothing could be more beneficial to the interests of the population of New South Wales. The hon. baronet had talked of a monopoly. But how could it be called a monopoly to grant one million of acres to a company, where twenty more millions of acres lay? It was proper to observe, in reference to the observations of the hon. baronet, that although this company, as well as the Canadian, and the Van Die-men's Land company, was formed under the auspices of the colonial department, yet not a single share in any of these companies was possessed by any individual connected with that department.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 also defended the Australian company, and said, he was convinced the hon. baronet, must have been deceived by his informant.Mr. Taylor
284283 observed, that it was not his intention, after the kindness with which the House had fa-
284283Mr. Alderman Waithman
230229228 presented a petition from the Weavers of Glasgow, and of the county of Lanark, representing their extreme distress, and praying for relief. The noble lord observed, that it was exceedingly painful to him to read the description of the state of destitution, hopelessness, and helplessness under which the weavers of the county which he had the honour to represent were suffering; knowing, as he did, how accurately that description conformed to the melancholy facts of the case. Many
230229228Lord A. Hamilton
lsl281 said, he thought the worthy alderman entitled to approbation, for having had the spirit and the fortitude to say in that House what was universally said out of the House. At the same time, he could not but express his warmest admiration of the manner in which the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs had received the motion. He rose principally for the purpose of making an observation upon one of those Joint-stock companies which had been eulogized by the hon. member for Midhurst, in terms which certainly did not meet with his concurrence. It might be supposed, from the manner in which the hon. member had spoken of the Australian company, that it had been founded upon principles more liberal than those of any other company. Now, he begged leave to ask, whether this company was not founded upon a monopoly? He had received information on this subject, from undeniable authority, and he was enabled to state, that a monopoly had been granted to the
lsl281Sir C. Forbes
243l242slllslsl241ss240sls239238sllsslllssl237slllsll236sslsl235234ad interimslpro tempore"To the Right Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled: the humble Petition of Thomas Parkin, of No. 14, Poultry, Secretary to the National Stone Way Company.233 said, he rose to present a petition upon a subject of all others the most open to confusion; he meant the uncertainty of the law. The petition was very appropriate to the present occasion, as it had some reference to the Joint-stock companies, the subject of which was about to be brought before the House. The petitioner stated, that he had been employed as the secretary of one of the most solid and substantial Joint-stock companies; namely, the National Stone Way Company. Having performed his duty, the petitioner could not get his salary paid, and he therefore attached some property or funds of the company in the hands of the City bankers. The banker having refused to pay this money, the case had been brought before the City court, and the recorder of London had nonsuited the petitioner, on the ground that a company existed, of which the money attached was a part of the property, and ought to have been attached as the property of the National Stone Way Company. The petitioner, therefore, brought an action against the bankers, in the court of King's-bench, when he was defeated on just the reverse grounds namely, that the company was,
243l242slllslsl241ss240sls239238sllsslllssl237slllsll236sslsl235234ad interimslpro tempore"To the Right Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled: the humble Petition of Thomas Parkin, of No. 14, Poultry, Secretary to the National Stone Way Company.233Mr. D. W. Harvey
258 repeated, that at some future time he should not resist inquiry into the origin and management of other companies, if a case at all like that against the Arigna Company could be established, in the first instance. Now, enough had passed in the matter of that company, to lead the House to a grave suspicion that there had been in the conduct of that company matter for inquiry. The allegations against it had been distinct. They had been urged with strong and decided epithets, by those who supported the accusation; and, on the part of the defence, there had been an admission of such conduct as it was necessary that the House should examine into. By the course which he took, he did not mean to prejudge the question as to any case; but he was bound to say that, with respect to the other companies which the hon. alderman had mentioned, he did not think that he had made out any such case as against the Arigna company; or a sufficient case, indeed, to institute inquiry. But, whatever was done must be done by specific motions; because he was quite sure that, by going into the general inquiry, the hon. alderman would only merge his own object in a mass of impracticable details. For himself, he was perfectly ready to go into an inquiry upon the distinct charge against the Arigna company now; and afterwards he should be just as willing to receive another charge against any other company, as to which the same degree of conviction in his mind, that there had been mismanagement, should arise. But he could not consent to some of the propositions which had been relied on, in bringing forward this motion. He could not assent to the hon. gentleman's opinion, that this country was injured at home, and its character prejudiced in foreign countries, by these Joint-stock companies. He could not but say that he thought some of our Joint-stock companies conferred honour, as well as advantage, on the country. Some of our best and noblest institutions owed their origin to, and were supported by, Joint-stock associations. He had only to instance the Bank and East India Company.
258Mr. Canning
bonâ fide279 said, he did not rise to oppose the right hon. gentleman's amendment, as he must imagine he had well weighed its bearings and its consequences, and adopted the course he had token as least objectionable in a choice of difficulties; still he could not but think it of most questionable precedent. The Arigna company was a very limited and strictly private association. The only parliamentary inquiries into transactions, supposed to be fraudulent, of which he was aware, were in the cases of the Charitable Corporation, and the South Sea. Both of these were public bodies. The South Sea founded on an arrangement of the Public Debt. The ministers of the Crown were parties supposed to be implicated; though the Directors were
bonâ fide279Mr. Hudson Gurney
262lll261in limine260259 rose. He said he was sure he might with confidence throw himself upon the indulgence of the House upon this, to him, most trying and momentous occasion. He had long had the honour of a seat in that assembly, and had long been honoured with its favour and confidence. Seldom, however, it. was, that he had occasion to intrude himself upon its notice, and never before now was he culled upon to defend his character and his honour, from a most serious charge, and that under circumstances the most difficult to meet and rebut. It was the weight of prejudice which had been created against him, made the struggle in which he was involved most unfair. He complained of the un-candid, and he had almost said, the most unfeeling manner, in which this subject had been brought forward by the hon. alderman; from which it was evident, that the design was, to make him the chief actor in the late schemes; to hold him out as the ostensible contriver, or main supporter of almost all of them; and to throw a burthen on his shoulders, which no man could bear, or could be expected to bear. He repeated, that he rejoiced at the prospect of this inquiry;
262lll261in limine260259Mr. Brogden
, with much earnestness of manner, begged leave to second the motion.Mr. Brogden
275274273 said, that as specific allusion had been made to the share he had had in some of these companies, he was bound to afford the best explanation which he could on this occasion. He admitted that for a number of years, he had been engaged in several Joint-stock companies, fire-offices, and insurance-offices, for example, and he could add, that while so acting he had never felt any thing but pride and satisfaction, nor had he ever taken a part in a single company, of which, in any sense, he ought to feed in the least degree ashamed. The worthy alderman who had introduced this subject—and he gave him full credit for purity of intention—had certainly indulged himself in unjust and unfair reflections of a sweeping nature. [A cry of "no."] He must reply "yes," for the worthy alderman had dealt out his imputations against all the members of parliament who had been, in any way, connected with Joint-stock companies. That among these speculations, there had been many which were formed upon false principles he readily admitted; but there were others of a very different description. With one in which he was engaged, the Real del Monte Association, he could assure the worthy alderman, that the directors, so far from feeling any indisposition towards inquiry, courted it, and he should be afforded every assistance for that purpose. It had been hardly formed, when the shares rose to a very great premium; a circumstance which he could assure the House had given the directors at the time the greatest concern; and he, as the chairman, was the instrument of publishing a notice, with the view of correcting any exorbitant expectations, which specified that the whole plan was an experiment, and only such; and this was done at the instant, to guard the public against too sanguine expectations of the result. He could also assure the House of a fact which was also commu-
275274273Mr. John Smith
282 regretted that he was obliged to trouble the House with a few observations in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. baronet. The hon. baronet had certainly adopted a singular mode of making an attack against the Australian company. His information, he said, was confidential, and yet he had scrupled not to bring it forward, attacking all those who had had any concern with that company. He said that the whole thing was a job; but, in talking of the allotment of acres and other things, he did not appear to understand, that one of the principal objects of the Australian company was to raise a species of fine wool, which could not be procured elsewhere. With respect to the observation, that the affairs of the company had been placed in the hands of a particular family, he could only say that the hon. baronet was quite mistaken. The commissioners abroad had little or no power; for the fact was, that the whole business of the company was managed at home, and there was no part of its concerns that did not. reflect the highest credit on the king's government. A most humane and successful endeavour had been made by the agent of the Australian company, to conciliate the original
282Mr. John Smith
 said, that if there was any association or company in this country, that promised greater advantages to the colony, and to the mother country, than another, that company was the Australian. It was formed upon public principles, and acted upon public principles. The directors, who were only twenty-four in number, held more than half the shares. He, as a director, had never sold a share, although they bore a high premium; and he believed he might say the same of the other directors.Mr. Hart Davis
278277276 said, that as an allusion had been made to him, it became his turn to explain what had been his conduct during the prevalence of the occurrences which were so much alluded to. The hon. member was, however, under some mistake or misapprehension, when he insinuated that he had had the least connexion with any of these speculations. He could assure him, that neither directly nor indirectly had he had the least share, or interest, in any company which had been formed in the years 1824, 1825, and 1826. He had, indeed, an interest in one of the oldest insurance companies in the country, but it had remained of the same amount during the last twenty years. It was not, however, because he held a particular situation under the government, that he felt himself disqualified from applying his private property to such beneficial purposes as fairly presented themselves to his view; but the fact was, that he had never thought of embarking in these speculations, and, with the exception of some inconsiderable shares in two canals, one of them near his country residence, and the other locally connected with his interests in another point of view, he had never been in any way engaged in these companies. If the hon. member alluded to the company formed to promote the growth of silk in Ireland, he would explain, in a few words, all the connexion he had had with it. When the parties who had projected that company came to the Board of Trade, he had specifically stated to them, that though he thought it a desirable experiment, and wished it to have a fair trial, and though, under other circumstances, he might have felt disposed to take an interest in it, yet, considering the situation he held, as President of the Board of Trade, he could not expose himself to the misapprehension that would be likely to arise from his so doing. When the parties applied to him, as President of the Board of Trade, to know what number of shares would be taken, he informed them that there must have been some miscon-
278277276Mr. Huskisson
ll271ll270 said, he rose to address the House, only in consequence of the allusion which the hon. gentleman who had just resumed his seat, had thought proper to make with respect to him. Ungrateful as he knew such explanations to be to the House at large, and disagreeable as they necessarily were to the member who had to offer them, he could not permit the occasion to pass without trespassing for a moment upon the attention of the House. The hon. gentleman had taken the pains to draw a distinction between those Joint-stock companies, which, being formed on a large scale, were calculated to be advantageous to the empire at large, and those of an inferior magnitude, which had been denounced as less entitled to public patronage and support. That, however, was not the question before the House. It was of much wider extent; but, narrowed as it was by the amendment of the right hon. Secretary, and after the personal allusion of the hon. member who had last spoken, he felt himself justified in addressing them. It was true that he was a director of a Joint-stock company for a few weeks. But as no list of that company had been advertized, he did not imagine that there was any member of that House, except those who were in the same situation as himself, who knew any thing about it [a laugh]. He was not aware, indeed he had not the slightest suspicion., that the general knowledge of the hon. member, extending as it did to every thing of the kind, could have produced that particular example. He would briefly state the circumstances under which he had become connected with this Joint-stock association. In the spring of 1825 it was proposed to him to join his name as a director of this company with
ll271ll270Sir Alexander Grant
, after having put the question, said, that the name of sir William Congreve having been mentioned, as being concerned in certain Joint Stock companies, he wished to state, that he had received a letter from sir William, inclosing medical certificates of his inability to attend the House in his place this day, on account of ill health.The Speaker
280 said, he thought the worthy alderman who had brought forward the present motion must now see that the great extent of it would defeat the object which he had in view. He could not think that the worthy alderman, living as he had lived in this great city, and taking an active part in its affairs, could mean to include under one sentence of reprobation, all the Joint-stock companies which had been formed in this country. He had reprobated, and in his opinion justly reprobated, those ephemeral bubble companies, which differed as much from the companies which the right hon. President of the Board of Trade had eulogized, as light from darkness. He
280Mr. G. Robinson
290 would not say a word
290Mr. Secretary Peel
296 said, he thought that it would conduce to the economy of the time of the House, if hon. members would avoid making long speeches upon presenting petitions, and reserve themselves until the specific questions to which such petitions related came property under their
296Mr. Baring
297 was of opinion, that the discussion of such an important subject as this ought not to be confined to one field-day, but that it ought to be frequently brought under the consideration of the House. The speech of the hon. member for Ipswich rested entirely on the assumption that this country possessed a monopoly of the more ingenious machinery, and therefore ought to enforce
297Mr. Warburton
298 said, that when the hon. member for Aberdeen, in the last parliament, had expressed his determination to introduce a measure for the repeal of the present law, he had urged him to postpone it, because he thought it was due to the feelings of the manufacturers not to make so great an alteration at that particular time; and, in his opinion, the present was as little suited for such an experiment. They had been told that it was quite absurd to continue this law, and to prohibit the exportation of machinery, because drawings of the different machines were to be found in the Scotch Encyclopædia. But, since the year 1821, when that Encyclopædia was published, many improvements had been made in those machines. [Mr. Warburton, "Then they are secrets."] Then, if they were secrets, why should not the country profit by them as much as possible? This was a question which ought not to be hastily taken up. They had already had some experience of the ill effects attending a precipitate decision on long-established laws. When the hon. gentleman brought forward the repeal of the combination laws, he laid down some broad general principles, which sounded very well. He called on the House to put the master and the journeyman upon the same footing; and
298Mr. Secretary Peel
295 said, that, although he agreed in principle with those who looked upon free trade as a great advantage, he was far from going along with them to the extent to which they proposed to carry it. He thought that the principle of free trade must be ever limited by another principle; namely, the policy of each country reserving to itself the sole benefit of those exclusive advantages, which, cither from nature or by acquisition, it might enjoy.
295Colonel Torrens
287l. observed, that the hon. member who had presented the petition had uttered one sentiment, which he would never hear in silence. That sentiment was, that the Catholics could give no security which would render it safe to make any further concession to them. What security was required? If the legislature gave them political power, would not their love of that power induce them to retain it by their conduct? If the sentiment of the hon. member were largely acted upon, it would tend directly to the dismemberment of the empire.287l.Colonel Torrens
294 protested against the sweeping doctrines laid down by the hon. member for Aberdeen. As a representative of a large manufacturing county, he
294Mr. Littleton
291 observed, that he conceived he should not have performed his duty if he had refused to present the petition, and indeed, with the exception of the single sentence which had been animadverted upon by the right hon. gentleman, it appeared to him to be unobjectionable. It was far from his wish to be instrumental in placing any statement on the records of the House which might have the effect of creating any unfair prejudice on the minds of any of its members when this most important question should be brought under their consideration. He would not there
291Mr. Moore
 maintained, that the statements in the petition were incontrovertible. He wished them to be fairly placed before every hon. gentleman. He was not conscious of having pronounced the tirade which one hon. gentleman had imputed to him. He had merely asserted that which was as notorious as the sun at noon-day, that the Roman Catholic priesthood possessed the power described in the petition. He did not blame them for exercising that power. They had a spiritual duty to perform, and he gave them credit for performing it conscientiously. But that was the very state of things he complained of. The performance of such a supposed duty was calculated to occasion extensive mischief. He was surprised at the warmth with which the hon. colonel had made almost reproachful observations on what he had stated respecting securities; and he was satisfied that what he had advanced on that subject could not be controverted. If it were established that the Catholics could not give any securities for the proper exercise of whatever civil rights might be conceded to them, that he presumed, would immediately determine the question. The necessity of securities had been maintained by all our wisest and greatest statesmen. He repeated his opinion that, situated as the Catholics were, a further concession of political power to them was dangerous to the state.Mr. Moore
285 said, he held in his hand a petition from Mr. Emanuel Hutchinson Orpen, of Dublin, on a most important subject. The petitioner complained of the power exer-
285Mr. Moore
 observed, that the effect of particular systems of law was frequently over-rated, their real operation being ascertained correctly, as soon as they were repealed. Such had been the case with the combination laws; and, as soon as the statutes forbidding the exportation of machinery should be abrogated, it might be found that they had materially contributed to the protection of the manufacturer. He trusted that, in the present session, the true principles of political economy would be better understood, and that no sudden change in the existing law would be attempted.Mr. Bright
 thought the hon. gentleman who had just spoken, had taken a tone far beyond what the nature of the cast required. Every one was aware that petitions were frequently presented, stating ' the opinions of individuals. In the propriety of which opinions, it was by no means necessary that the House should concur, before they allowed the petitions to be printed. Undoubtedly, he concurred with the hon. gentleman in thinking, that it would be much better, if the statements, on both sides, were calmly and dispassionately made and that all parties would consult their true interest by such conduct. But, to select one petition for reprehension, on this ground, while petitions, equally objectionable, on the other side, were allowed to pass without observation, would not be much to the credit of those by whom it was done, nor make a very favourable impression on the public mind of the justice of their cause.Mr. Goulburn
289 said, that the right hon. gentleman had mistaken his hon. friend, who had merely urged the good sense and good feeling, under the circumstances of the case, of not giving circulation to the allegations of the petition, by ordering it to be printed. His hon. friend's first statement was, that the petition referred to a subject which was about to undergo the investigation of committees, before whom witnesses would be examined upon oath. That being the case, and the matter being one with which the House at large could be but very little acquainted, it was surely not too much to ask the House to withhold printing a petition, not from a body, but from an individual, containing statements calculated to make a
289Mr. Abercromby
 said, he could not hear the allegations of the petition without declaring in his conscience, that he did not believe that the power possessed by the Catholic priesthood had been exercised to the extent alleged. He knew it was utterly impossible to disconnect the subjects of religion and politics in Ireland; but he believed that the opposite party was liable to a similar imputation. If the Roman Catholic priesthood exercised their influence with the Catholic laity, for political purposes, there could be little doubt that our own clergy exercised their influence for similar objects. He regretted that the hon. member should have indulged in a tirade against the Catholics, on grounds which, in his opinion, were wholly untenable.Mr. James Grattan
292 presented a petition from the Machine Makers of Manchester, praying for an alteration of the law prohibiting the Exportation of Machinery. The hon. member said, that the petition involved a principle of very great importance to this country. He recollected hearing the right hon. gentleman at the head of the Board of Trade say, that he hoped the day would soon arrive when the word "prohibition" would be expunged from our commercial system. He perfectly agreed with the right hon. gentleman in the sentiment, and he appealed to him whether it was right to continue a system of prohibitions with respect to machinery, when he was endeavouring to abolish that system with regard to every other article of industry? The object of the petitioners was to obtain a repeal of the law which prohibited them from exporting the produce of their ingenuity and labour to the markets that would afford them the best remuneration or reward. This object, at all times just, was rendered infinitely more necessary now that the markets at home did not afford a demand for their industry. The petitioners declared themselves to be totally out of work, and in a state of absolute starvation; the British manufactures affording them no employment, and the foreign markets being shut against them, by the prohibitory system persevered in by ministers. Every man was now allowed to export the produce of his industry to where he could find a purchaser, except the unfortunate maker of machines. The consequence of this was, that the machinists of England were in a state of destitution, whilst their sufferings were increased by a knowledge that it was in the power of ministers, by opening their trade, to relieve their distresses. Those who opposed the exportation of machinery were like those who had opposed the opening of every other trade, in order to augment their individual gains, and to secure to themselves a monopoly. He might illustrate the truth of this by referring to many trades, but particularly to the silk trade. The persons engaged in that trade had done every thing in their power to persuade the country and the government, that removing the prohibi
292Mr. Hume
286 did not rise to oppose the bringing up of the petition. On the contrary, it was his opinion that every man was entitled to complain to that House of any grievances under which he laboured. He rejoiced, therefore, that Mr. Orpen had come to that House; and he trusted, that if petitions from other individuals of a different nature should come to the House hereafter, the hon. member would be disposed to receive them with equal readiness. The hon. gentleman had stated what was known to all; namely, that the Roman Catholic priesthood possessed the power of excommunication. The question was, whether or not that power had been carried beyond its proper exercise. That was a question which would be tried upon the evidence of witnesses on oath;
286Mr. Spring Rice
288 observed, that many of the burnings and massacres adverted to in the petition were as unconnected with religious considerations, as if they had taken place in this country. The petitioner charged the Roman Catholic clergy with the most enormous vices; and prayed for the establishment of a new code of laws against them. The House had the authority of the Attorney-general for Ireland, that the clergy had not contributed to the excesses which had taken place in that country. What ground, therefore, could there be for the allegations of the petitioner? He deprecated the revival of old animosities
288Mr. S. Rice
 put it to the hon. member, whether any good could arise from printing and circulating such a petition. It might produce much heat and irritation; and he trusted, therefore, that the hon. member would withdraw his motion.Mr. Spring Rice
293 appealed to the hon. member, whether a question of such vast importance could with propriety be discussed at a period when thousands of manufacturers were either out of employ, or but partially employed? He assured the hon. member, that if a bill were to be introduced, which had for its object the abolition of every restriction upon the exportation of machinery, it would be pro
293Mr. Huskisson
 did not conceive that any mischief could arise to any branch of our trade or commerce, by the exportation of machinery of whatever description. The use of that machinery would enable other countries to increase their wealth, and we should ultimately derive a proportionate benefit from such increase. It appeared to him unjust to withhold this liberty from the manufacturers of machines. They formed a large class of the community; and he could not see why their interests should be sacrificed to those of other manufacturers, the produce of whose industry was exported.Sir H. Parnell
299 said, he was on the point of rising to give notice, that on the 15th of February, he would move to renew the committee on emigration, which had sat during the last session. He assured the hon. member, that it would not at all forward his object to force a decision on the subject at the present moment. The individuals who desired to emigrate could not be removed at this season of the year with any advantage to themselves. The
299Mr. Wilmot Horton
 presented petitions from Glasgow and Calton, in favour of Emigration, as a measure necessary for the relief of the distressed manufacturers.Mr. W. Horton
 dissented from the assertion, that the report of the committee held out no hopes of advantage from emigration. He knew not what better evidence could have been collected than that which was collected by the committee, to throw light upon this important subject. He hoped that the next committee would be able to propose some temporary measure, which would in no way interfere with any permanent measure which it might ultimately think proper to adopt.Mr. W. Horton
300s. said, it was evident, from the correspondence into which ministers had entered with the editor of the "Glasgow Free Press," that they were favourably inclined to the system of emigration. He was sorry to find that they were ready to see thousands of their fellow countrymen seeking to be exiled from their native land. The system of emigration was contrary to the spirit of our laws, and opposed to many of our most ancient regulations, he admitted, that it was necessary to do something to relieve the distresses under which so many of our artisans were at present sinking. He was sorry to inform the House, that since the petition from Carlisle had been presented, he had received accounts, stating that their distress was increasing daily. He could state to the House, that the hand-weavers did not at present receive more than 5300s.Sir James Graham
 wished to be informed how, under the present system of our Corn-laws, the corn grown in the colonies was to be sent to England to pay the quit-rent, which was to re-imburse the government for the expenses it might incur in carrying emigrants to the place of their destination.Mr. Warburton
301l. deprecated the continuance of the present discussion. It was of great importance that hon. gentlemen should keep their minds open to information on this subject, and that they should not pledge themselves to opinions now, which might, by possibility, fetter their judgments hereafter. There were many points connected with the subject of emigration, into which it would be incumbent on the House to examine before it came to any determination. They must consider; first, how far emigration would be available to meet the distress which now prevailed in this country on account of the population being greater than the demand for labour; and secondly, how far the encouragement of emigration would affect the interests of the colonies. It might be impossible to incur the expense of relieving the distress of the country by emigration, and when it was recollected, that an expense of 20301l.Mr. Secretary Peel
302 trusted that ministers would take the advice which had been tendered to them by the hon. baronet, and
302Mr. Maberly
303 said, that if the hon. member would allow him, he would propose him as one of the committee; and he had little doubt, but he would soon be con-
303Mr. W. Horton
306305 said, that the course taken by the hon. gentleman was so very
306305Mr. Wilmot Horton
 was surprised at the manner in which the hon. member for Aberdeen had disclaimed the petition of Mr. Bishop Burnett. It was true that he did not present that petition; but then he spoke upon it with a warmth, and in terms, which were not called for at the time. As for the story itself, which he might fairly describe as "Bishop Burnett's History of his own Times," he thought it ought to be disposed of first.General Grosvenor
311310 said, that as the hon. member for Aberdeen appeared to have misunderstood him, it would be necessary for him to repeat a few of the observations which he had submitted to the House. That hon. member was totally mistaken if he supposed that it was his wish to get rid of this investigation with the half-mangled case, as he termed it, of Bishop Burnett. He had merely mentioned to the House the very great expense which had been imposed on the country in collecting materials for coming to a decision on this case, and he would now pledge himself, that if gentlemen would take the trouble to wade through the report on their table, they would find ample and conclusive evidence to enable them to come to a determination on this case, and it did appear to him to be a most cruel and unjust mode of proceeding that, after the charges which had been
311310Mr. Wilmot Horton
312 continued. He could not accede to this indefinite demand. If the hon. member would state a specific case—if he would pledge his character that he had examined into it, and that he thought it required the attention of the House—he would then either consent to produce the papers, or assign such reasons for withholding them as he thought would satisfy the House. But it would be a most inconvenient mode of proceeding in this particular case, and set a very bad precedent, to accumulate and huddle together a host of fresh charges, whilst they threw aside and abandoned those which had been preferred in the first instance, and on which a report had been already made. The hon. member was likewise mistaken as to the reason why a pension had been granted to colonel Bird. It had been granted him for many years
312Mr. Wilmot Horton
313 contended, that there was not the slightest ground for the presumption that ministers meant to impede the course of justice by refusing the papers. The charges against lord C. Somerset at present were sweeping and general. Let them be made particular; and, if sufficient arguments could be
313Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, that if the House should resolve itself into a court to enter upon the consideration of every individual case, although no imputation had been cast on the report of the commissioners, it was impossible to say what papers they might be called upon to print. He would put it to the hon. member, whether it would be at all consistent with that economy of the public money which he so much advocated, to adopt this course. But it would be in the highest degree unjust to the commissioners, whom he believed to be most impartial and able men; for it would assume, that they had conducted themselves with partiality and injustice, and would consequently lower them in the estimation of the public, and embarrass them in the exercise of their functions. His hon. friend had very fairly offered, if the hon. member would take upon himself to bring forward any specific charge, cither to produce the papers relating to it, or to assign a satisfactory reason for refusing them.Mr. Secretary Peel
 replied, that he should resist, in the first place, the production of colonel Bird's examination.Mr. Wilmot Horton
*315 termed the advice given by the right hon. gentleman lenient towards the hon. mover, but argued, that it would degrade the character and dignity of the House, to allow the motion to be withdrawn. If he had attended to one branch of history more than another, it was that which related to the constitutional principles of parliament and the country, and he would venture to say, that since the Revolution, a more atrocious attack had never been made upon the rights and liberties of the subject. This was the first time he had heard, that the value of what was stated in a petition depended upon the number of the signatures, or even upon the characters of the parties. To require their publication was most improperly to obstruct the right of petitioning, and to encroach upon one of our dearest privileges. The hon. gentleman then adverted to the expulsion of sir John Trevor, in 1695, in consequence of the circulation of a pamphlet in the lobby, by one Crosfield, which complained of a gross misapplication of the public money, and quoted the Parliamentary History of the time upon the subject. The investigation went on, and one thing came out after another, until
*315Mr. Alderman Waithman
316** maintained, that he was perfectly in order. He meant to conclude with moving an amendment. An attempt had been made to obstruct the right of petitioning. It was wished that the names of certain persons who had brought a serious charge against a member of that House should be published, in order to let the world know how few they were in number, and also how much they were wanting in respectability. It mattered not whether a petition was signed by one person or by one hundred, so that the facts contained in it were correct. It was an attempt to obstruct the right of petitioning, to propose to hold up petitioners to ridicule, or to expose them in any way. The hon. member had stated, that the petitioners were not persons of respectability. With respect to the privilege of petitioning, the poorest, man stood upon the same footing as the richest. Previous to the revolution it was asserted, that all attempts to obstruct petitioning were illegal. The obstructing of petitioning was declared to be illegal in the bill of rights. If members were allowed to cast reflections on the characters of petitioners, and to hold them up to public contempt, the doors of the House would be barred against petitions. In 1680, the House of Commons resolved, "That it was, and ever had been, the undoubted right of the subject to petition parliament for the redress of grievances." In pursuance of this resolution, sir F. Withins and sir George Jeffreys were expelled the House, for throwing obstructions in the way of petitioning. Another objection had been made to one of the petitioners, Mr. William Clarke; namely, that he had been running about the streets, collecting information relative to this Joint-stock company. So much the better. He was, on that account, the more likely
316**Mr. Alderman Waithman
 contended, that government ought to come forward with some specific plan for the relief of the thousands of artisans who were now starving in different parts of the country.Mr. Abercromby
 agreed with his learned friend, that some more explicit declaration was wanted from government. He did not entertain any great hopes of advantage from the renewal of the committee which had sat last session. Indeed, the opinion of that committee, as far as it could be collected from their report, was adverse to emigration.Mr. J. Grattan
l. contended, that it would be better to put the waste lands of England into cultivation, than to send our population abroad to engage in similar employment. The waste lands of England, would long since have been cultivated, had it not been for the embargo of tithes and taxation which was laid upon them. He thought it extraordinary that, at a time when we had eleven millions of acres ready for cultivation, we should send our population at the expense of 20l.Mr. Benett
308307 said, he would now submit a motion to the House, which would enable him to point out the extraordinary conduct of the hon. gentleman on this occasion. The hon. gentleman had asked him, if he would proceed with the case of Mr. Bishop Burnett? Now, he had nothing to do with that case. He did not present the petition of that individual. It
308307Mr. Hume
304ex-parte rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a subject, into which justice to the complaints of the colony, and to the character of the individual who was accused as the author of those complaints, required that it should institute an immediate inquiry. Many members of the House might not, perhaps, understand the course which had been adopted with regard to the Cape of Good Hope. In the year 1822, in consequence of the reports which had reached England respecting the misgovernment of that colony, the House had presented an address to his majesty, requesting him to appoint a commission to inquire into the state of that colony, as far as regarded its revenue, its institutions, and the conduct of its governor. On a motion which he had made last session, the instructions sent to the gentlemen who formed the commission were laid upon the table. He was not going, on the present occasion, to question in any respect the propriety of those instructions, though he could not help remarking, that three years and a half had elapsed without the House receiving any information as to the labour of the commissioners, except in one solitary case, into which it appeared that they had instituted some inquiry Neither was he going to complain of the conduct of the commissioners, though from statements which had been forwarded, and in some degree authenticated, to him, he was inclined to question the propriety of their conduct. He was anxious, that the hon. Secretary opposite would state how the House stood with regard to the inquiry into the conduct of the noble lord who had come home from his government in order to meet it. There were various circumstances which rendered an inquiry into the conduct of the governor of u distant colony a matter of considerable difficulty. There was an imperative necessity for investigation. At present, they had nothing but 304ex-parte Mr. Hume
 hoped that ministers would be prepared to introduce some measure on the subject, as it was one in which thousands and tens of thousands were interested.Mr. Hume
 said, that as the report of the commissioners containing it was about to be laid upon the table, he would withdraw that motion. He hoped, however, that the hon. gentleman would consent to lay upon the table the correspondence respecting the special cases against lord C. Somerset. It was idle to call upon a member to bring forward a special case, when the very means of investigating it were denied. Justice could not be done without the production of the correspondence on the particular charges.Mr. Hume
 said, he must admit that the proposition which had been made by the hon. gentleman was a very reasonable one; and if he had understood at first that this would have been conceded to, he would not have pressed his motion, which he would now withdraw.Mr. Hume
 asked, to what particular motion the hon. gentleman objected.Mr. Hume
 observed, that he only asked for the correspondence relating to the special cases which had been referred to the commissioners.Mr. Hume
314l.l. said, that he had a motion to make relating to a petition which had been referred to a select committee of the House against the directors of the Arigna Mining Company. An hon. friend of his (Mr. Brogden) had been one of the directors of this company, and as such, along with the other directors, had been charged by the petitioners with purchasing property for 10,000314l.l.Mr. R. Martin
317 said, that he would not have been very anxious to press his motion, if the hon. alderman had named the other three petitioners, as he had named Mr. Clarke; for walls had cars, and if the hon. alderman had done so, they would be known all over London to-morrow morning. He denied that his object was to hold up the petitioners to ridicule. His object was, to show the public, that out of a thousand persons interested, only four had petitioned against his hon. friend. There was nothing in this which went to impugn the right of petitioning. He asked, why the petition had been printed without the names of the petitioners? It was wrong—it was monstrously wrong — to print that petition without the names of the petitioners, so long before the investigation could be gone into. It had been said, that if the charges were unfounded, his hon. friend would have an opportunity of clearing himself. So he would. But when? Why, in two months from this time; and during the whole of that time these allegations were hanging over him; so that his hon. friend was punished before he was tried. The process was, to punish him first and hear him afterwards; which was exactly the same as hanging a
317Mr. R. Martin
 rose to order. The hon. I alderman, he said, seemed to misunderstand the question before the House, which was merely whether certain names should or should not be printed. There had been no attempt made to throw obstruction in the way of inquiry. In fact, the House had already determined, that an inquiry should take place.Mr. Wynn
 said, that if the names were printed in this instance, impartial justice required that they should be omitted in no others. At present the expense of putting petitions into type was sufficiently heavy; and if the signatures were appended, the votes would soon be as voluminous as the statutes at large. He recommended the hon. gentleman to withdraw his motion, which was now unnecessary, as the House had appointed a committee to investigate the charges against the hon. member. If it turned out that there was no foundation for the accusation, those who had brought it forward would, of course, meet with merited disgrace.Mr. Wynn
309 said, he felt it to be his duty to vindicate, as far as his abilities would allow him, the conduct of the commissioners of inquiry. He possessed no materials that would enable him to enter into a laboured defence of those gentlemen; but he must say, that the hon. member had just as little ground for making an attack on them. Nearly connected as he was, in relationship, with one of those commissioners, Mr. Biggs, any thing he might say in his favour might be attributed to partiality. He should, therefore, only state, that Mr. Biggs was as incapable of being actuated by any unworthy motive as the hon. gentleman himself. That gentleman had been employed, for many years, in important public situations, and he was admitted to have discharged the
309Mr. Ord
321 said, he had been informed, that in the discussion which had taken place last night respecting the Cape of Good Hope, a question had arisen as to the course which he intended to pursue with regard to a petition which he had formerly presented, complaining of the misconduct of the governor of that colony. That petition he had presented two sessions ago, on behalf of Mr. Bishop Burnett; and he understood it was now said, that the report of the commissioners had dealt with the subject matter of that petition, and completely exhausted it. He had not read that report with any great attention;
321Mr. Brougham
 vindicated the officers of the army from the aspersion; which had been cast upon them.Colonel Torrens
 said, it was impossible for any military man to sit silent under such an imputation as had been cast on the whole army by the hon. member. If they remained silent, then, indeed, they might deserve to be considered as slaves. Fortunately, however, observations of this nature, coming from the hon. member, were perfectly harmless. Colonel Arthur, under the circumstances stated by his noble friend, had an undoubted claim to the situation of commandant; and if lieut.-colonel Bradley had entertained any doubt on the subject, he ought to have waited until his reference to England, with respect to the assumption of colonel Arthur, had been answered. But lieut,-colonel Bradley said, "no, I will at once depose you, and take this authority on myself." This was unquestionably a disobedience of discipline, that could not be palliated. He, at the same time, admitted, that col. Arthur had acted with less leniency than he ought to have done; because he kept lieut.-colonel Bradley too long under arrest; and a court of law, in consequence of that circumstance, had most properly given a verdict in favour of the complaining party. This had, however, nothing to do with the main question. Half-pay officers on the staff, under the circumstances stated by his noble friend, had a right to exercise the same authority which colonel Arthur had assumed.Sir H. Hardinge
 said, he was astonished that the hon. member should, after the luminous explanation of his noble friend, after his unequivocal statement, that such a commission did exist, reiterate his question. It was little less than doubting the veracity of the noble lord.Sir H. Hardinge
330 observed, that those who threw stones first, had no right to complain if stones were flung at them in return. The hon. member had used an expression towards the army at large, to which he had deemed it his duty to reply; but he had not come down to the House for the purpose of speaking on this question; nor was he aware that it would come under discussion. Certainly it was
330Sir H. Hardinge
—The "ifs" of the hon. member render his statements very harmless.Sir H. Hardinge.
 said, he certainly had expressed a wish, when he read the list of the committee, that some alteration should be made in it. He had wished that some persons more conversant in the business of the city should be placed on it. He now, however, desired no alteration. He felt himself perfectly safe in the hands of those to whom the investigation had been intrusted.Mr. Brogden
—If individuals in the king's service are to be deprived of their situations without the decision of a courtmartial or inquiry of any kind, then, I say, that under such circumstances, every officer in the army is a slave. That was my observation.Mr. Hume.
 did not speak of a commission in existence now, but of a commission in existence at the time when the arrest took place.Mr. Hume
329 said, he had been long enough a member of that House to know, that an angry tone was not an answer, An at
329Mr. Hume
 was of opinion that the noble lord's answer was evasive. It did not directly meet his question, which related to a commission not of the present day, but issued some years ago.Mr. Hume
326 said, that he very much doubted the existence of the letter of service. It was first brought to light in 1819, and he could produce a letter from lieut.-colonel Arthur, proving that he had no such commission at that time. If he had had such a commission, why did he not produce it when he was three times specifically asked to do so? The reason
326Mr. Hume
 rose and said, he would rest the whole business on this question — "Did colonel Arthur, when he placed lieut.-colonel Bradley under arrest, possess any authority from general Fuller, which justified him in adopting that measure?" [Lord Palmerston, "Yes."] He wished to know whether the noble lord would admit the letters of colonel Arthur, in which he allowed that he did not possess such a power, to be received as a proof that the statement on this point was not false. Would he allow those letters to be received in contradiction to the charge of falsehood? Colonel Bradley did not, as had been asserted, act precipitately. For three successive months he demanded to know what commission colonel Arthur heldy and from whence it had been received; but he could procure no satisfaction. He now asked, what authority general Fuller had to supersede the king's commission, which was in the hands of colonel Bradley?Mr. Hume
323322 said, that in making his present motion he must necessarily bring under the consideration of the House a case of gross and flagrant military oppression. The facts on which his motion rested were well known to the House, as he had on more than one occasion presented them distinctly to its notice. He would, how
323322Mr. Hume
 said, he had intended to move, that an addition should be made to the members of the select committee appointed to investigate the proceedings of the Directors of the Arigna Mining Company; but he had abandoned that intention as his hon. friend (Mr. Brogden) had expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the committee as it stood.Mr. R. Martin
l.325324 said, he should feel it to be his duty to object to the production of the documents, not because the despatches which were called for did not exist—for he had seen them himself—not because he had any doubt as to the genuineness of the commission or letter of service, for it had been admitted as evidence in a court of justice, but because no parliamentary grounds had been laid for their production. The merits of the case had been, so often discussed, in the last
l.325324Lord Palmerston
328— I have already stated
328Lord Palmerston,
 begged to remind the House, that the hon. member and himself were at issue as to a fact. The hon. member had said, that the commission had no existence in 1814. He replied that it had. It was matter of proof, and had been placed on record; and when the hon. member said that the commission did not exist, he denied a fact which had been proved by the oaths of most honourable and virtuous witnesses. If that were proved in a court of justice, it became a matter of fact. The hon. member could not, by any ingenuity, "rail the seal from off the bond." That commission had been produced; and if it was asserted, no matter by whom, that it was a fabricated document, then he must say, that such an assertion was a base, scandalous, infamous calumny, which he felt himself bound to repel, on the part of those affected by it, with all that contempt and disdain that it merited. Not a greater falsehood could be conceived. The commission was granted by general Fuller in 1814; and it was not true, that, in colonel Arthur's letter of 1818, no mention was made of it. He read, last year, a letter from colonel Arthur, in which he alluded to that commission; and he there adduced his holding such commission, as a reason for his exercising the authority he had previously possessed. He, therefore, would repeat, that there could not be a greater falsehood, let it come from whom it might, than to assert, either that no such commission was in existence, or that, if it were in existence, it was fabricated for some base, sinister, and miserable, purpose.Lord Palmerston
 said, it was impossible for him to be answerable for the extreme obtuseness of understanding possessed by the hon. member. He would venture to say that no other man in the House entertained any doubts as to the clearness of the explanation which he had given. He had stated not only on the present occasion, but in the last session, that there was such a commission; but, beyond that, he had then read the paper which he now held in his hand; namely, a letter from colonel Arthur, of the date of 1820, in which he quoted this disputed commission, as his reason for exercising the authority which he had assumed in 1814. The commission was in existence in 1814, as appeared from that letter; and if the hon. gentleman's intellects were so deeply obtuse, as to require these numerous repetitions and explanations—repetitions and explanations more numerous even than those in which the hon. gentleman was in the habit of indulging—if it were necessary by these means to soak into his understanding, as it were, the comprehension of the most simple fact, he must leave the hon. gentleman to that impenetrable darkness which dwelt within the interior of his brain, and leave his statements to the judgment of other gentlemen whom he had the honour of addressing. It was a matter of indifference to him whether the hon. gentleman understood him or not. He addressed himself to the House of Commons, not to the hon. member for Aberdeen [hear, hear].Lord Palmerston
 Canning presented, at the bar, the following Message from his Majesty, which was read by the Speaker:Mr. Secretary
 rose, but in consequence of indisposition, he spoke in tones so feeble, that his words were very indistinctly heard. He said, that in pursuance of the custom usually observed on occasions of this kind, he should now give notice that he would to-morrow move an Address to his Majesty, thanking him for the communication which he had made to the House, and affording him the strongest assurances of the cordial support and co-operation of his faithful Commons. It would be contrary to the practice hitherto followed, for him to enter at present into any statement of the reasons which had induced his majesty to make to the House the communication they had just heard, and besides it would be unfair to the House itself, as it was totally unprepared for such a discussion. He would therefore confine himself to moving, that his Majesty's Message be taken into consideration to-morrow.Mr. Secretary Canning
 said, it was out of the power of his majesty's ministers to make any earlier communication to the House with regard to the inroad of the Portuguese refugees, as the official despatches had arrived only on Friday night last.Mr. Canning
336 observed, that when
336Sir Robert Wilson
Canning moved the order of the day, for taking into consideration His Majesty's Message. The Message having been read,Mr. Secretary 
* Canning rose and addressed the House as follows:*Mr. Secretary
377 member for Preston, seconded the amendment. He said, he thought it was not fair to bring forward a question of such great importance at a time when so many members had left town. He was also of opinion, that the House would be acting with indecent and ruinous precipitation, if they allowed themselves to be hurried into a war merely by the dazzling and brilliant speech of the right hon. gentleman. He did not wish to prejudge the question of war or peace, but he seconded the amendment, in order to give the House further time to deliberate. If the House should agree to the address proposed by the right hon. gentleman, and a war should ensue, they must be prepared to support the imposition of a very high property-tax, and the re-enactment of the Bank Restriction Act; two measures which he would never consent to, so long as he had a scat in that House. There was also a third measure which the House must be prepared to agree to, but which he would rather accord as a boon than a right. He meant Catholic Emancipation. In the event of a war, emancipation would be demanded not as a favour, but a right. If he never gave another vote in that House, he should rejoice at having stood up to express his sentiments on the present occasion. He would not make a long speech, because he could do no more than reiterate what he had already said. He was desirous of keeping faith with foreign nations, but he could not forget that we owed good faith to ourselves. Self preservation was the first law of nature. Thousands of Englishmen were at this moment wanting bread. Should the House resolve to commence a war under such circumstances, what
377Mr. Wood,
380379378 said, he was not one of those who wished the country to rush into a war; on the contrary, he had listened to the statement of the right hon. Secretary with a strong desire to find such a proceeding unnecessary—to discover some means of evasion—but it appeared to him, that the case made out by the right hon. Secretary was so strong and so decisive, that without making some such excuse as the meanest and most contemptible nation in the world might be inclined to frame, this country could not avoid taking the attitude which it was proposed she should take. He put it to the greatest lover of peace in that House, whether an exhibition of pusillanimity was the way to secure respect and peace. Did an individual ever suppress insult or aggression by the reputation of pusillanimity? It was in vain to talk to the House about a property-tax, and a Bank restriction act. The only question for the House to consider was this—" Is the faith of England engaged to afford protection to Portugal?" Neither the hon. member who had moved, nor the hon. member who had seconded the amendment, had uttered one word which could induce the most credulous to hesitate for one moment to decide that question in the affirmative. The hon. member for Aberdeen had said, that our treaties with Portugal were imprudent. Upon the whole, he thought so too; but with the nature of those treaties the House, at the present moment, had nothing to do. The question was, did they exist? Could any man, possessing a spark of honour, say that this was the moment to discuss the prudence of those treaties? Now that we were called upon to execute our agreement with Portugal, would it be honourable to say that we thought the treaties imprudent? Whatever might be the distress which existed in the country, he was sure that the case made out by the right hon. Secretary could not be fairly stated, without meeting with the unanimous concurrence of his high-minded, though suffering countrymen. If the situation of the country were such as to render it impossible for us to go to war, it would be the more manly course to say so at once, and not to quibble about the
380379378Mr. Baring
 said, he doubted very much the proposition of the hon. member for Callington, that the contest into which the country was about to rush, would not prove expensive. He was strongly inclined to consider that which had recently taken place rather as an act of internal commotion connected with Portugal, than as any measure proceeding from external powers in hostility to our ally. He thought that we ought at least to be perfectly sure that war was indispensable before we rushed into it; and, though it would be impossible for him to vote, for, the amendment, that was a fact of which all the eloquence of the right hon. Secretary had not convinced him.Mr. Bankes
390389388387386casus fœderis385384383l.382381 said, he should have left the question before the House precisely as it stood upon the statement of the right hon. Secretary, if it had not been that, after the part which (he now reflected with pleasure) he had taken on the subject of Spanish affairs two years back, it was impossible for him to give a silent vote upon the question now under discussion: but,
390389388387386casus fœderis385384383l.382381Mr. Brougham
398397396395394393locus pœnitentia392casus fœderis391 Canning said:—I rise, Sir, for the purpose of making a few observations, not so much in answer to any general arguments, as in reply to two or three particular objections which have been urged against the Address which I
398397396395394393locus pœnitentia392casus fœderis391Mr. Secretary
casus fœderiscasus fœderis dissented from the proposition, that a casus fœderiscasus fœderisMr. Bright
376375374373casus fœderis372 begged to be allowed to state briefly the grounds upon which he claimed the attention of the House. His hon. and gallant friend had treated this question in a way from which he materially dissented, and he should think himself wanting in his duty, if he did not express his dissent; but, in so doing, he begged to be understood as appreciating to as full an extent as any man, the effect of the unanimous approbation with which the speech of the right hon. gentleman was received, and that he was not unconscious of the embarrassment in which he was placed by venturing to oppose to that unanimity perhaps his isolated opinion. The first observations which he should make upon the statement which the House had just heard, was, that the right hon. gentleman seemed to have taken only one view of the question; namely, the relation in which this country was placed with respect to Portugal by treaty. Now, to the actual fact of this relation, he could not object, because he was assured that treaties were in existence by which it was established; but he thought that such treaties were to be deprecated, and it would not be amiss to discuss the question, whether or not in sound political expediency and discretion, we were to be bound by them. What was the situation in which this country was now placed? Was it not that, by the right hon. gentleman's interpretation, we were, upon every occasion of emergency in which Portugal might be placed, to give her our aid and protection, although it was morally certain, that from our relative conditions, we could never expect to receive any assistance from her? He felt that it was too late in the day now to inquire why or wherefore those treaties were made; because that they were made was certain, and it was certain also that they had been proclaimed in the face of Europe, in 1815, and that we were, so far as these treaties were binding, called upon to assist our oldest ally, Portugal, in her
376375374373casus fœderis372Mr. Hume
369Quippe ferant rapidi secum, verrantque per auras."Ni faciat, maria ac terras cælumquc profundumSceptra tenens; mollitque animos et temperat iras;—" Celsâ sedet Æolus arce,368367366365364363362locus pœnitentiœ361360casus fœderis359casus fœderis358casus fœderis357356355354353352351** in proposing to the House of Commons to acknowledge, by an humble and dutiful Address, his Majesty's most gracious Message, and to reply to it in terms which will be, in effect, an echo of the sentiments, and a fulfilment of the anticipations of that Message, I feel that, however confident I may be in the justice, and however clear as to the policy of the measures therein announced, it becomes me as a British minister, recommending to parliament any step which may approximate this country
369Quippe ferant rapidi secum, verrantque per auras."Ni faciat, maria ac terras cælumquc profundumSceptra tenens; mollitque animos et temperat iras;—" Celsâ sedet Æolus arce,368367366365364363362locus pœnitentiœ361360casus fœderis359casus fœderis358casus fœderis357356355354353352351**Mr. Speaker;
371370 said, he thought that his majesty as a British king reigning over a free people, must have experienced feelings of pride and satisfaction, when he caused the message before them to be delivered to both Houses. For his own part, when he gave notice of a motion on this subject the other evening, he had not been induced to do so from any desire that it should be the ground of an accusation against ministers, but because he could no longer behold with patience the many acts of treachery and oppression exercised against Portugal. He rejoiced most sincerely at hearing from ministers, that it was their determination to pat a stop to those aggressions. He had been fearful, that assistance would not be afforded to Portugal, until the Spaniards, assisted by Portuguese traitors, had reached the seat of government in that kingdom, overthrown the constitution, and expelled every worthy man from the country. He was alarmed lest we should again
371370Sir Robert Wilson
399 said, that, in pursuance of the notice of adjournment, which was given last night by his right lion, friend (Mr. Canning), who was prevented from attending this day, owing to the fatigue which had sprung from his great exertions when last in his place, he rose to move that the House at its rising do adjourn to the 8th of February next. He could not refrain from availing himself of the present opportunity, to express his entire conviction, that the
399Mr. Secretary Peel
404403402 seconded the motion, and hoped that his hon. friend would persevere in his praise-worthy exertions. The hon. member had with great constancy and assiduity devoted his time and energies to many subjects of importance and utility, but amongst all the measures on which he had exercised his zeal and his abilities, hardly any was, in his opinion, of greater interest, in all its bearings, and of more general advantage, than the present. The measure to which his lion, friend had called the attention of the House was one of importance, whether it was considered in reference to the advantageous effects which it was calculated to produce upon the revenue, or with relation to the still more enlarged benefit, of which it would be the source, by the diffusion of information amongst the people. He did not, however, mean, by what he now said, to commit himself as to the course which he should feel it his duty to adopt, when such an inquiry should be entered into. The subject was one which demanded much deliberate examination. From the impression which was at present predominant in his mind, he should feel disposed to draw a distinction between the daily and weekly newspapers. The revenue might afford to make an experiment in the one case, which it might not be able to do in the instance of the daily publications. The weekly newspapers might, he conceived, be rendered most valuable channels for the dissemination of science and intelligence
404403402Mr. Brougham
 said, that the subject which the lion, and learned gentleman had thought proper to introduce without any notice, was too important to be considered now. He should therefore decline to give any specific answer to the hon. and learned gentleman at present. If, however, upon a due consideration of the subject, it should be found to be one deserving of that inquiry which was so strongly urged, he should be willing to attend to the suggestions thrown out by the hon. and learned gentleman.Mr. Secretary Peel
400 concurred with the right hon. gentleman, that the House and the government had come to a sound decision as to the course to be pursued respecting Portugal. He, however, certainly thought the period of the adjournment too long. The situation of the country must at all times determine the circumstances of the case, and it was his misfortune to differ from almost all the members of the House, as to the conduct they had pursued that session. When it was borne in mind, that nothing whatever had been done
400Mr. John Williams
401 said, that had there been a sufficient attendance, it was his intention to have called the attention of the House to some subjects of considerable importance connected with the revenue; such as the duty on newspapers, advertisements, pamphlets, insurances, &c. He considered the duty on newspapers, not only a great public injury, but a loss to the revenue. He was confident, that he should be able at a proper season to show, that great and most desirable advantages would arise from a reduction of those duties. He was satisfied that if government would take off twopence-halfpenny from the duty, the revenue would be benefitted by the increase, which would be thus occasioned in the circulation of newspapers. He was warranted in anticipating this effect by a reference to the duties levied on newspapers in other countries. In the United States of America, where there was no duty, or but a very small one, there were no less than five hundred and ninety-eight newspapers in constant circulation; while, according to the last returns, made in 1821, the whole number of newspapers in circulation
401Mr. Hume
65 rose, to move an address to his Majesty, in reply to his most gracious Speech. The noble earl observed, that the Speech from the throne explained to their lordships the political situation of the country, and that it was usual for those who rose for the purpose of proposing to their lordships an address in reply to the royal Speech, to notice the principal topics which it embraced. He did not intend, however, to go into minute details. On all material points, the state of the nation afforded sufficient grounds for congratulation. Whatever unfavourable circumstances he had to notice, were of a temporary nature. He had no series of national calamities to deplore, no protracted war to lament. In general, he had only to call their lordships' attention to the fortunate situation of the country: but it was not to be expected that there would be no disagreeable feature in the picture. "Man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upwards;" and their lordships were aware that every state of things was liable to uncertainty and change. Accordingly, the first topic of the Speech, related to the late extraordinary and unexpected panic, which had occurred in the pecuniary transactions of the country. It was the more unexpected, because it had occurred at a moment when the
65The Earl of Verulam
11109l.l.;l.;8 said, that the noble mover and seconder of the Address had both mentioned the present embarrassments, but he did not find that either of them had said a word on the causes which led to them. He would endeavour to supply the omission. The causes were, in some degree, to be attributed to the government; in a greater degree, to the country banks; and in a still greater degree to the Bank of England monopoly. He would tell their lordships how the government caused this mischief. It had prolonged the existence of the one and two pound notes. It had passed a law to allow of country banks issuing them. The measure permitting this was the measure of ministers. As far as the present evil arose from the bankers issuing such notes, to this degree it had been caused by his Majesty's government. There was also a strong tendency in the measures of ministers to reduce the rate of interest; and for this purpose, the one and two pound note bill had been passed. They had reduced the rate of interest on Exchequer bills, in order to promote a great future reduction of interest. Their conduct reminded him of the memorable speech of a memorable ex-chancellor of the Exchequer, in which that noble lord had stated, that it would be no benefit, if every individual, when he awoke in the morning, found a guinea in his pocket; but it would be a great benefit if he found the rate of interest reduced when he awoke. Such was the sentiment of the accredited organ of government, and ministers now seemed to think that it was no benefit that wealth should be spread abroad amongst all the people, but a great benefit that it should be collected into heaps. The ex-chancellor would be a proper organ for the projectors of last year, who removed the useless guinea out of the people's pocket, and supplied its place by receipts for stock or scrip for loans. He would recommend the people, as the proper use of such paper, to subscribe it to build a monument to this ex-chancellor of the Exchequer. He had said, that the Bank of England had contributed to the dis-
11109l.l.;l.;8Lord King
14l.,1312 said, that although the subject was one of the utmost importance, still he was not at present prepared to go so far as his noble friend who spoke last. However desirable it might be to agitate the question at some future period, he could not at present support the amendment. His object in rising was, to say a few words in reference to the Speech from the throne. He must, however, premise, that he felt much regret that his Majesty was not able to attend in person, for the purpose of opening the session. He feared the circumstance
14l.,1312Earl Grosvenor
 said, he should oppose the amendment. With respect to the Corn laws, it should be recollected that the country was at present in an artificial state; that we were subject to an enormous taxation; and that while such was the case, it was not to be expected that the grower of corn here could compete with the foreign grower upon any thing like equal terms. The agricultural interest had been always anxious to lighten the distresses of the other classes of the community. The difficulties of the present time did not arise from the corn laws, but were mainly to be attributed to that spirit of ruinous speculation which had unfortunately taken possession of the country. He did not see how the present military establishment could be reduced, consistently with the best interests of the country. He trusted that, in conformity with the suggestion thrown out in the Speech from the throne, such measures would be adopted as would prevent the recurrence of the difficulties which had lately been experienced in the money-market.Lord Teynham
15l.l. said, he did not rise for the purpose of at present discussing the unfortunate topic which formed so prominent a part of the Speech from the throne, for it would be impossible for the House to enter upon that topic, without having received any information respecting the nature of the views and intentions of his Majesty's government. It was a subject upon which he could not say any thing, without saying a great deal; he would not, therefore, now attempt to inquire how far that measure would be obliged to receive re-consideration, which authorized the issuing of 115l.l.The Marquis of Lansdown
201918l.l.l.l.,l.;1716 said, that he did not feel himself warranted in intruding on the attention of the House for the purpose of entering into a discussion upon the several very important topics which naturally grew out of the Speech from the throne, and which undoubtedly involved questions of the greatest political interest. After the statement made by the noble marquis, be certainly did not conceive himself called upon to enter upon the consideration of those important points on the present occasion. At the same time he considered it necessary, with respect to a question of so much political interest, that he should use no reserve—not as to details, for it would be impossible to treat of them with effect at that moment—but
201918l.l.l.l.,l.;1716The Earl of Liverpool
21l.l. doubted whether the gradual withdrawal of the 121l.l.The Earl of Carnarvon
22l. said, that from the time he had first thought upon the subject, he had always been of opinion that a paper currency, convertible into gold on demand, was that which was best adapted for the transaction of the business of a country. A currency of that decription at present existed in this country. He challenged any of their lordships to state an instance, since the resumption of cash payments, in which gold had not been given in exchange for paper when demanded. In his opinion it was not to the currency that it was necessary to look for the origin of the existing embarrassments. In the course of the last year there had been a demand on the capital and labour of the country, to the extent of 17,000,00022l.The Earl of Lauderdale
7 in rising to second the Address, said it was not necessary for him to trespass on their lordships' indulgence at any great length, after the able manner in which his noble friend had brought forward the motion. He must, however, beg leave to make a few observations. It appeared to him, that the late pecuniary distress had arisen out of the peace and prosperity of the country, which, by creating a great accumulation of capital, induced persons to speculate to excess. The distress, however, was by no means general, and he congratulated their lordships that in all the manufacturing districts the spirit of combination among the working classes had entirely disappeared, and they had now returned to their usual habits of peaceful industry. He also congratulated their lordships, that the agricultural interest had met with no material cheek by the recent difficulties. Among the topics contained in the Speech there were many on which he might congratulate their lordships in common with his noble friend. It was highly gratifying to find that Colombia had finally established her independence, and that we had entered into friendly relations with that state, as well as with others in the same hemisphere. As to the war in India, it was well known that the principles on which it was carried on were sanctioned by the highest authorities in this country. With respect to that part of the Speech which adverted to the improved state of Ireland, he rejoiced to find that the measures introduced last session had been found effectual in reference to the administration of justice, education, and general
7Lord Sheffield,
103 said, there could be but one opinion, as to what ought to be done on hearing the letter which had just been read. He was sure their lordships would take the earliest opportunity of recording the sense they entertained of Mr. Cowper's services. He therefore
103The Earl of Liverpool
 read a letter from Mr. Cowper, stating that, from infirmity he was unable to attend to discharge the duties of his office, and begging that their lordships would be pleased to accept his resignation. He further begged leave to lay before the House the deep sense of the gratitude he felt for the attention they had paid to him during forty-one years he had been their servant.Lord Gifford
l.126 rose to call their lordships' attention to a motion founded on the letter of Mr. Cowper, which he had read yesterday. He had the satisfaction of feeling that the motion with which he should conclude was one which would meet with no opposition. Their lordships knew how that gentleman had discharged the important duties of his office for a period of forty-one years. There was no instance of an individual having discharged his duty with more diligence, assiduity, and integrity, than Mr. Cowper had done. The situation was important in various respects. It was necessary that the person who filled it should be well acquainted with the course and forms of judicial proceedings. The office was also important from its connexion with the forms and regulations of the House. This was a kind of knowledge which could only be acquired by experience; and it was no disgrace to any one who sat on the woolsack to say, that he might be assisted by Mr. Cowper. No one better knew than the individual of whom he was speaking, what was due to the dignity of the House and to the maintenance of its orders. Besides, his duty had been always discharged with so much propriety and urbanity, that during the long period of forty-one years, no one had ever had occasion to complain of his conduct. For his own part, he could speak to a period
l.126The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to ask of the noble lord opposite, how far the suggestions thrown out in the report of the committee of the House on the State of Ireland, imperfect as they were, had been acted upon. He called them imperfect, certainly not from any disposition to speak slightingly of the labours of the persons who composed the committee, of whom he himself was one, but because they were from the nature of the inquiry imperfect, and the committee themselves called them imperfect. However, a great many suggestions of importance had been thrown out on the subject of education and other matters connected with the state of Ireland, and he supposed the king's government had acted upon those suggestions as far as was found practicable. There were circumstances in the state of Ireland which rendered it very desirable that some of the suggestions should be carried into effect without delay. He was therefore very anxious to learn what had been done in pursuance of the suggestions in the report.The Marquis of Lansdown
130129 professed himself ready to give the noble marquis every information in his power on the subject to which he had referred. In doing this, he would take the report of the committee for the basis of his explanation, and would go over the points suggested one by one. The first suggestion related to an alteration of the law of landlord and tenant. The subject had been referred to the law officers of the Crown, who had had it for some time under their consideration, and the result of their opinion had at last been
130129The Earl of Liverpool
131 had heard with regret what the noble lord had said about grand-jury presentments. He was sorry that no measure was in preparation on that subject. There certainly were not too few, but too many roads in Ireland. These roads were so many jobs, and were managed in such a way that the grand juries had not the means of doing justice. He was convinced that most of the money raised for making roads in Ireland was thrown away, as far as regarded the interest of the public. Part of a road was made this year, and part another; but the benefit which the public was to derive from it was postponed till the whole was completed, which might be twenty years; and till that period he considered the money completely thrown away. In a part where a gentleman resided, the roads were kept in very good order; but it often happened that where the country was populous, they were in very bad condition. With regard to the corporations, he believed the administration of justice was sometimes corrupt, and he thought that inquiry ought to be made into the mode of admitting persons into their freedom. He did not know how far the attention of government had been directed to the question of relief to the poor. For his own part, his opinion was very strong against any thing being done in that way. With regard to the question of education, it was his firm conviction, that until the Catholics gained their rights, they would never agree to any system of education which had been suggested. The public mind was at present greatly exasperated in consequence of the rejection of the measure of last session, and therefore any
131Lord Ellenborough
 assured the noble lord, that any suggestion respecting the evils of grand-jury presentments should not be lost. The subject was under consideration. With regard to the administration of justice in corporate towns, whatever evils there might be to complain of, they could not be with propriety corrected by any general laws, because, the rights of corporations were secured by charter. He had no objection to a law to meet particular cases, but a general law would affect those who had discharged their duty properly, as well as those who bad neglected it. Besides, it was to be recollected, that when individuals found themselves aggrieved, they had their remedy in a court of law. He should be extremely anxious to see something done for the poor, if it were practicable. At the same time he was not prepared to say that any thing was practicable.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he should not be satisfied with any alteration on the subject of grand-jury presentments respecting roads, unless it was provided that no road should be undertaken except upon the report of a sworn surveyor. He also thought that no road should be undertaken without the sanction of government.Lord Ellenborough
132 said, that no agreement on the subject of education could be expected in Ireland, so long as the Catholics were deprived of their rights. The discontent produced by that denial of justice prevented every plan of reform from succeeding. Let the anxiety of the noble earl opposite to benefit that country be as strong as he asserted it to be, still, so long as the principles he avowed last session were acted upon, it was impossible there could be tranquillity in Ireland. He might as well attempt to erect a perfect building on an insecure foundation. With such an obstacle to improvement, all the efforts of the noble lord must fail. On the subject of education, an opportunity had occurred, before
132The Earl of Darnley
l.140139138l.l.l.,l.,137136135134133 rose to call the attention of their lordships to one of the most important questions which could be brought under their consideration. He intended to submit to them a series of motions, the object of which would be to reach the source of that embarrassment, which had prevailed, and still prevailed in commercial affairs. In doing this he was desirous of offering a few observations for the purpose of expressing the opinion which he entertained on the subject. He was the more desirous of submitting these few observations to their lordships, because he entertained an apprehension, that in the opinions he had formed on the subject, he had the misfortune to differ, respecting the causes of the present crisis, from some persons in that House, and also out of it, for whose opinions he entertained the highest respect. Before he proceeded further, he begged it might not be understood, that he intended to suggest, or that he expected, through any of the documents for which he should move, to reach any thing like a remedy for the existing evil. His opinion, founded upon what he conceived to be the nature of the evil, was, that it must be allowed to work its own cure. The state of the currency had turned the exchanges against the country, and gold disappeared. There was an accumulation of stock, and the consequence was, that any man who purchased at a maximum, and sold at a minimum was ruined or injured. The embarrassment would continue until, going through the whole community, it should be corrected by that increased demand which would be produced by the reduction of prices. Then would return, not that artificial prosperity, which had been witnessed, but that real prosperity which the country was capable of attaining, under its present state of taxation. He believed it was the opinion of the king's ministers themselves, that no adequate remedy could be applied to the evil. Concurring in this opinion, he thought that no time should
l.140139138l.l.l.,l.,137136135134133The Marquis of Lansdown
142141 said, he did not feel it necessary to trouble their lordships with more than a few words on the present occasion; first, because it would be his
142141The Earl of Liverpool
 denied that the issues of small notes had the effect of driving the metallic currency out of the country. The present distress, in his opinion, was not occasioned by the currency so much as by the spirit of extravagant speculation which lately prevailed throughout the country. The withdrawing of nineteen millions, which was the amount supposed to be withdrawn from the circulation of the country, was the true cause of the calamity. That these speculations had been indulged in was no fault of his. He had done all that lay in his power to warn the public from entering into these rash and hazardous enterprises; as had also the noble and learned lord, whom he regretted not to see now on the wool-sack. As to the Scotch banks, they were certainly found by experience to be established on principles of perfect security; but he was apprehensive, if the intelligent persons who introduced the system of Scotch banking were brought up to the bar of this House and examined, that they would admit that the Scotch system was, in many respects, incompatible with the commercial transactions of this country, and unfit to be introduced into England.The Earl of Lauderdale
145144143 said, he approved highly of the plan of extending the number of partners in banking establishments, and agreed also in the propriety of each of the partners of such establishments being made liable, in the whole amount of his property, for the concerns of the Bank. This would create a class of merchant bankers who would have an interest in attending to the affairs of the Bank, and would operate as a check against over-issues. Accompanied with these measures, he would be glad to see the country return to silver as the stand-
145144143The Earl of Carnarvon
 believed, that the government would be glad to put an end to the grand-jury presentment system, if they could; but that was not easily accomplished. He agreed with the noble lord in what he had said about the roads, the management of which was often an enormous and shameful job.Lord Clifden
 alluded to a misunderstanding of what he had said a few days ago concerning the extension of the poor laws to Ireland, when a noble earl, not then in his place, had brought the state of that country under their lordships' consideration. What he meant was, that he should be sorry if the system of the poor laws, or rather of the abuses of the poor law system of this country, were transferred to Ireland, since they could produce only calamitous results. On the other hand, he thought it was not to be tolerated that, in a country boasting of civilization, it should be possible for individuals to die from actual want; yet he had read of a person dying in the streets of Dublin from starvation. He did not himself mean to bring the subject before their lordships, because there was a noble lord, not then in his place (lord Carberry), who had already moved for certain papers on the subject, and had pledged himself to bring it before their lordships. But if that noble lord did not, he was so impressed with the importance of the subject, that after the holidays he would call their lordships' attention to it. He knew that there were great difficulties in the way; that the poverty of the people was not to be cured by charity; that the only legitimate mode of relieving them was by finding them employment; but he thought it was worthy of their lordships' attention to consider whether or not some modified system might not be practicable.The Earl of Darnley
408 rose to express his astonishment that any noble lord should stir a subject fraught with such mischievous consequences as a proposition
408The Earl of Limerick
 explained, what he meant to state was, that he thought it would be worth their lordships' while to consider whether some modified provision might not be made for the poor of Ireland in certain cases.The Earl of Darnley
466465464463462461460l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.459l.l.458s.457456l.l.,l;l;l.,l.,455l.l.l.,454453452451 rose, pursuant to notice, to move the second reading of the bill entitled "An act for the better regulating copartnerships of certain bankers in England, and for amending an act, passed in the 39th and 40th years of the reign of his late majesty king George 3rd, entitled an act for establishing an agreement with the governor and company of the Bank of England," &c. He believed it would be most convenient for the discussion to call their lordships' attention to the different branches of the subject, in order fully to explain the measures which his majesty's government had thought it right to adopt under the present circumstances. He was well aware of the difficulties opposed to any measure of remedy which could be suggested. At the same time he could not help thinking that, if their lordships were disposed to look the difficulties fairly in the face, they would become less than they might at first sight appear to be. A noble lord opposite, had, on a former occasion, referred to what he had thought it right to say in the course of last session, on the subject of the speculations which were then going on. What he had then said, showed that the causes of the present evils were not unforeseen. It had been said, however, that he had not pointed out all the sources of the delusion, and that in particular he had not said any thing of the country banks. Now, he would refer to the recollection of those who heard him at the time, as well as to those floating records, which, though loose and hastily made, would be found substantially correct, for an account of what he had said at that time. It would be found, that upon that occasion he had gone even out of his way, to give notice to the persons embarked in
466465464463462461460l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.459l.l.458s.457456l.l.,l;l;l.,l.,455l.l.l.,454453452451The Earl of Liverpool
l. wished to observe, that in Ireland there was no circulation whatever but of notes under 5l.The Earl of Limerick
480l.l.479l.l.478477476475l.l.l.l.474l.l.l.473472l.l.l.l.l.l.l.471l.470469468l.,467 said, that when, upon a former occasion, a noble lord had introduced the subject of the Corn laws, he had treated his observations in a way in which they ought to have been treated; namely, by not noticing them at all. But the case was different when the noble earl opposite thought proper to travel out of his way to allude to it, for the purpose of treating the House to an exhortation on the subject. The noble earl had said, that from what he perceived in the House, he anticipated some heat and intemperance in the discussion of the Corn laws, and he had warned their lordships against the influence of passion on that discussion. Now, he had only to say, that when he had last argued that question, he had not used a single argument in which he had not considered the interest of the landed proprietor and of the manufacturer as combined. In arguing in favour of the continuance of the Corn laws, he had as much advocated the rights of the manufacturer as those of the landed proprietor; and on behalf of all, he had contended for an equality of price, for a moderate remunerating price, a price beneficial to all, and not subject to any variation. He believed that those who looked at the prices since that period, would find as little, if not less, fluctuation than before those laws' were imposed. When the subject was again brought forward, he would discuss it in the same spirit; and God forbid that he should ever attempt to separate the great interests of this country. He could not permit it to go abroad, that their lordships were likely to argue such a momentous question with passion. He had found, and he would find again, that in the discussion of that great subject, the interests of the poor man and of the great land-
480l.l.479l.l.478477476475l.l.l.l.474l.l.l.473472l.l.l.l.l.l.l.471l.470469468l.,467The Earl of Lauderdale
492491490489488l.l.l.487486l.l.l.l.485484483l.l.482l.481 said, that after what had fallen from his noble friend who had just sat down, he would endeavour, as much as possible, to avoid touching on several of the topics noticed by him. To one point in particular which his noble friend had mentioned he would not advert at all, or, if he did, but very slightly, as his noble friend had thrown around it a sort of cordon sanitaire. His noble friend had been justly induced, in dealing with this important subject, not to confine himself to the bill immediately before the House. He had viewed it, as their lordships ought to view it, with reference to the general state of credit, to the circulation of the country, and to the operation of other measures which it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to propose. He trusted, therefore, that he might be allowed to claim somewhat of the same indulgence in considering this subject. The topics to which he alluded necessarily divided themselves into two parts; the one was that which the noble earl had described as having been lately adopted by the king's government with a view to the immediate relief of the country; the second was that which had been proposed to parliament for the purpose of administering, if not a complete, at least a powerful remedy against a recurrence of that ruinous disorder, the existence of which no man attempted to deny. These
492491490489488l.l.l.487486l.l.l.l.485484483l.l.482l.481The Marquis of Lansdown
l.498l.l.l.l.l.l.497 said, he could not give his assent to the measures flow before parliament, without expressing his opinions freely with regard to them. The measures at present proposed, as he understood them, were three: one intended to afford immediate relief; and the other two to prevent a recurrence of the calamities under which the country laboured. His chief objection to the measure for present relief was, that it would not relieve those who were most deserving of it, and that, while it would relieve some, it would necessarily injure others. For example, while it relieved those, who would not convert their Exchequer-bills into cash at a discount, it injured the banks that had been obliged to sell them during the height of the panic. There was no proof of the want of a circulating medium. It was more extensive now than at the end of 1824; yet, the object of government was, to increase it, when its very extent was alleged as one of the causes of the distress. The great cause of distress was, that people were all called on to pay what they owed, at the same time, and much sooner than they expected. It pervaded every class and description of persons. He knew not by what means relief could be administered; but he was sure that the measure of the noble earl would not reach those who were innocently involved in the calamities that pressed on the country. But, the noble lords on the Treasury bench were not agreed as to the character of their own measures. The noble earl had admitted, that the measure relative to the country banks was only a half measure, and had expressed his regret that he could not grant charters to the many joint-stock companies at once, while the noble lord who spoke last regarded the measures as of the greatest importance, and was only afraid that too great a number of joint-stock banks would be instituted. For his part, the events of the last two or three years, he confessed did not induce him to look at joint-stock companies with a favourable eye. He was not, therefore, sorry at the delay which must take place in the full completion of the measures; and, therefore, he thought no injury would result from the circumstance of these new companies not being able immediately to obtain charters. When the period fixed by law arrived, the materials would be provided for establishing them on an extended basis. He trusted no events would occur to prevent his majesty's ministers
l.498l.l.l.l.l.l.497Lord Ellenborough
500499 said, that no clamour, no fear of the resistance they might meet with, would prevent his majesty's ministers from doing their duty fully with respect to this important subject. He trusted that their recent conduct was evidence of their resolution not to shrink from the task which they had prescribed to themselves. As to the mode of relief, to which the noble lord had objected, his opposition probably arose from his not having turned his attention to questions of that nature, and therefore not seeing the full bearing and operation of the course pursued by government. What was the state of the country? A general want of confidence. It was not that there was not the money; but every man shut up his resources, and looked only to himself. Many banks had already ceased to issue notes, though they had still the power to do so; and, in many other parts the public had absolutely refused to take them. There was a general want of confidence, and consequently a want of money. If the object of government had been merely to relieve the holders of Exchequer bills, it would have been highly improper; but the object was to throw two millions of money into active circulation, by which means they expected to relieve the country better than in any other way. If the noble lord had attended to the questions of the circulation, in 1819, he would have known, that in the committee of that House, their lordships had obtained lights
500499The Earl of Liverpool
495494493 said, that he should not have trespassed on their lordships' attention, were it not that some allusion had been made to him by the noble marquis. With regard to the practical measure now proposed, he hoped it would not prove so defective as the noble lord opposite seemed to anticipate. He thought it
495494493Lord Bexley
556 said, he had a petition to present from Brecon, in the name of the town; but whether it could be received as such, or only as the petition of the individuals who signed it, he did not know. It was a petition against what he called the landlords act—the job of jobs—the Corn laws. The noble earl opposite had expressed a hope that this subject, when it came to be discussed, would be considered dispassionately; and, for his part, he was very desirous to attend to the recommendation, when the day of discussion should come. The question was—when would that be? In the course of last session he had been given to understand, that the great dis-
556Lord King
558557 wished to say a few words before their lordships went into the committee. He had heard a great many bad measures defended in that House by good speeches, and a few good measures also supported by good speeches; but, whether the measures were originally good or bad, it often happened that they had the same result. When a good measure was brought forward, it was sure, some how or other, to be frittered away and defeated. A striking instance of this had just occurred. On Friday night last, when the noble earl had proved to demonstration the advantage of the measure he was submitting to the House—when he had clearly shown that it was impossible for one and two pound notes and sovereigns to circulate together, his whole plan was upset. At the very moment when he was in the heart of his demonstration, the noble lord's lieutenant in another announced that the ribbons of notes of the Bank of England should have a preference over coin. He was sorry to find all the noble earl's arguments
558557Lord King
560559 observed, that the noble lord, as well as others, had fallen into a mistake with respect to the proceeding which had taken place elsewhere. Nothing had been done or proposed relative to the currency, which was a departure from the principles on which the measure brought forward in another place, or the bill before that House, was founded. He entirely agreed with the noble lord in opinion, that a metallic currency and paper of the same denomination could not circulate together. But, if the noble lord had done him the honour to attend to what he had stated on Friday last, he would not have had occasion to refer to what passed in another place on the subject of the power intended to be given to the Bank. The noble lord would have found, that lie (lord L.) had made the very same proposition at the close of his speech. The object in bringing the measures now before parliament was to get rid altogether of the small notes: but, as that could not be safely done at once, it was thought adviseable to make the circulation of that description of currency finally determine at the expiration of three years from the present date. The principle on which the measures were grounded, was the entire extinction of the one and two pound notes; but it was thought desirable that this object should be accomplished gradually. With regard to the Bank of England, he wished their lordships to recollect, that that body had, by a law passed in 1822, the power of
560559The Earl of Liverpool
561 being persuaded that the noble earl was sincere in the object he professed to have in view, felt it impossible for him to suppose that that noble earl could wish to delegate to any individual or body whatever, the power of defeating those measures which he had brought forward, for the avowed purpose of carrying his object into effect. He was willing to believe that it was not the wish of the Bank to abuse the power which might be given, and he was sure such could not be the wish of the noble earl; but, the noble earl could not fail to perceive, that if the clause he had described should pass, unguarded by any restrictions, he would be doing nothing less than giving to the Bank of England a power to defeat the whole of his measure. The noble earl had admitted the impossibility of looking forward to the circulation of small notes and specie, and that the only remedy for this evil was to provide for the influx of gold to such an extent as to supply the place of the small notes. Now, for gold to flow into the country while small notes circulated, was impossible. It would, therefore, be necessary to guard most carefully against the increase of these notes, if the measures now in progress were wished to be effectual. And here it was to be recollected, that their lordships had not the same means of ascertaining the quantity of small notes of the Bank of England in circulation as they had of the country banks, in consequence of the Bank of England not being under the necessity of going to the Stamp-office, but paying a composition instead of stamps. Supposing, then, the Bank were disposed to take advantage of the power about to be given, they would have time enough between this and October to deluge the country with paper sufficient to last during the whole of the three years in which the small notes were to be allowed to circulate. There would, in that case, be no gradual reduction of the small-note circulation: but, at the time when parliament was recognizing the principle, that the circulation of this-description of paper was an evil, it would be most inconsistent to delegate to any body an unqualified power to defeat the
561The Marquis of Lansdown
 repeated, that the sole purpose for which the clause was proposed was, that means might be possessed of guarding against a possible danger. He agreed with the noble marquis, that the power given to the Bank should be accompanied by proper guards, and expressed is willingness, if the clause did not come up in a satisfactory shape, to concur in any amendment which their lordships might consider necessary.The Earl of Liverpool
562 did not mean to enter into any discussion as to the original cause of the commercial difficulties, but would remark, that it appeared to him that the present distress was different from that which first occurred, which was confined to a rush on the banks. He thought that some of the measures of ministers had tended to aggravate the distress, but considered the present a good one, but did not approve of its intended extension to Scotland. If their lordships wished to place the banking system of England on a solid fooling, it should be their object to put an end to the pecuniary relations between the Bank of England and the government. He agreed with those who thought that the transactions of the Bank, with regard to the military pensions and the reduction of the interest of the debt, had contributed to the present difficulties; for the circumstance of the Bank becoming purchasers occasioned large issues of notes on inconvertible securities. It was said, that the Bank had the power of selling; but, as the sale of the annuities had been previously attempted by government without success, it was not very clear how the sale was to become so easy a matter to the Bank. With regard to the measure for calling in the small notes, he begged to be understood as limiting his approbation of it exclusively as it applied to England. Every reflecting person acquainted with the state of Scotland, attributed its rapid prosperity, next to the free institutions which, in common with the rest of
562The Earl of Roseberry
 said, he was one of those who considered that a metallic currency would be most beneficial to the country, and that such a currency could never exist with a currency of paper; but, in Ireland things were very different to what they were in England. There they had no other circulation but the small notes of the Bank of Ireland and the provincial banks, and the withdrawal of them without a full supply of gold would be ruinous to the last degree. He hoped, therefore, that government would take especial care to provide an ample currency of coin, before they withdrew that of the one and two pound notes.The Earl of Limerick
d.s. said, that the only danger to Ireland was the withdrawal of the small notes before a supply of gold had been sent to replace them. There had not been for a long time any gold in the south of Ireland, but in the north some gold had always been in circulation. In the south, notes for so low a sum as 3d.s.The Earl of Blesinton
563 assured their lordships, that when a proposition for extending the measure to Ireland should be brought forward it would be his endeavour to give all possible attention to the peculiar circumstances of that country. If Ireland was now recovering from difficulties, the noble lord, he doubted not, would allow that that favourable circumstance was greatly owing to the introduction of the system which it was the object of the bill to accomplish for this country; namely, that of allowing banks to be established by joint-stock companies. As to the paper circulation, its evils never would be cured until it was got rid of by law. It was a curious fact, that after the Bank Restriction act, and during the war,
563The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that one cause of that curious fact alluded to by the noble earl, was this, that the landlords of Ireland would only take their rents in gold, so that the tenants were compelled to pay them in that manner. This might have satisfied the noble earl; but, if he had gone further, he would have discovered a circumstance quite as curious as the fact itself; and that was, the mode in which these payments were managed. When rent-day approached, the sum of five hundred guineas was sent down from Dublin, and given to one set of tenants, in exchange for their notes; they then paid their rent in gold; which, as soon it was thus received, was handed to another set of tenants in exchange for their notes; this being repeated till all the tenants had paid their rents, it might be literally said that they all paid their rents in gold. The money was then returned to Dublin, from whence it came, there to remain till another-rent day should require it to make a second journey into the country.The Earl of Lauderdale
 denied this statement, which he characterised as a mere piece of ingenious humour.The Earl of Blesinton
 supported this denial, declaring, that to his certain knowledge, there was not at the time alluded to a single guinea in the south of Ireland.The Earl of Limerick
 asked whether it was the intention of ministers to submit to parliament any measure for the suppression of small notes in Scotland, and if so, what was the nature of that measure?The Earl of Roseberry
 answered in the affirmative as to the first question; but as to the second, he was not prepared to say what would be the exact nature of the measure he should offer.The Earl of Liverpool
564 rose, to state his conviction, that there was no man of any class, or of any party, who would for one moment hesitate to express his complete satisfaction with the state of the currency as it at present stood in Scotland; nay, who would not declare it to be
564The Earl of Lauderdale
565 said, it was now his duty to call their lordships' attention to a clause which, upon consideration, it was deemed adviseable to introduce on the subject of branch banks to be established by the Bank of England. It was his opinion, that the Bank had already the power of establishing branch banks in any part of the country which they thought proper. A doubt, however, existed in the mind of the highest authority, upon such a subject, that without some specific clause for the purpose, they would be prevented from giving effect to that power. They had the power to appoint agencies in the country; but then it was doubted whether this bill, in its present form, enabled the Bank to give them the authority of acting on their own discretion, and not as mere agents; for without that authority they could not answer the purpose contemplated in the formation of them. On the authority, therefore, of the opinion to which he had before alluded, namely, that without a specific clause for that purpose they could not exercise a discretional authority, a clause to that effect had been drawn up, which it was proposed to introduce into the bill, in order to enable the Bank to establish branches throughout the country, on such a footing as would render them beneficial to themselves and of important advantage to the country. If, however, it should not lead to the establishment of branch banks by the Bank of England, he trusted that they would have liberality enough to say, that although they themselves were not disposed to act upon this plan, they would not stand in the way of allowing the formation of other banks, on a principle calculated to afford the same advantages to the public. He
565The Earl of Liverpool
 did not now mean to offer any objection to this clause. He would, however, suggest to their lordships the propriety of introducing a clause providing, in case the Bank of England should think proper to establish branches, that they should be bound to pay their notes in gold, in the same part of the country in which they had been issued. Great inconvenience had been experienced in Ireland in this respect, in consequence of the Bank of Ireland having attempted to refuse paying their notes in gold in the country where they had been issued by their branch banks, stating that they were only bound to pay them in Dublin. The point, however, he believed had been given up by the Bank; but then he had been given to understand, that they had attempted to evade that, by issuing Bank of Ireland notes dated from Dublin. He should hope that no such evasion would be attempted by the Bank in this country; and that it would be provided by the bill, that they should pay in gold in those places where branch banks would be established. He trusted the noble lord would see the importance of introducing such a provision; because, without it, whenever a panic occurred in any part of the country, a run would take place upon other banks, while none could be made upon the branch banks of the Bank of England, inasmuch as they could only be compelled to pay in gold in London.The Marquis of Lansdown
566 was of opinion, that this was the most important clause in the bill. He was disposed to give every fair facility to the establishment of branch banks; but he greatly feared, that without a very considerable enlargement of the capital of the Bank, branch banks could not be established with any benefit to the country. Under the present system, the branch banks would be counteracted by the country banks; and ignorant of the extent of their circulation, and unable to meet it, they would find it impossible to do that duty which the country would require at their hands. Now, he thought these branch banks ought to have a metallic capital, that would be capable of
566Lord Ellenborough
 presented a petition from Ashton-under-Lyne, praying for the repeal or amendment of the Corn-Laws. He said, he could not lay the petition on the table, without expressing his regret, that the difficulties of this measure had not been grappled with during the present session. He agreed with the noble earl, not then in his place, that the discussion of this question was likely to be gone into with a considerable degree of passion. He was as likely as any one of their lordships to lose, in proportion to his wealth, by a fall in the price of corn, for he derived the greater part of his revenue from land; but he was prepared to make any sacrifice that might be for the good of the nation at large. Whatever measure the ministers might bring forward, which were for the public good, he would not oppose them. Perhaps he was wrong in saying a "sacrifice," for he laid claim to no peculiar patriotism; but he was convinced, that no class of society could profit, for any length of time, by any measure which was an injury to the other classes. He thought it was a mistake to suppose that the repeal of the Corn-laws would injure the land-owners. Of one thing he was sure, that the repeal of those laws would prevent fluctuations in price; which was a serious injury to the landed interest as as well as to the other interests of the society.Lord Suffield
695 expressed his regret, that noble lords, when it was understood that this question was not to
695The Earl of Lauderdale
865 could not allow the petition to be read, without stating, not only that there had been not one dissentient voice at the numerous and respectable meeting when this petition was signed, but also that there had not been one dissentient voice at any meeting which had been held, and he believed there would not be a single dissentient voice at any of the meetings about to be held. There was in Scotland an unanimous, but not clamorous opposition to the proposed measure of extending to Scotland the bill for suppressing small notes. Men of all parties, who had never agreed on any one subject before, were united in this, and had stated, in the strongest way possible, that no project ever thought of was so
865The Earl of Roseberry
866 said, he had several petitions to present against the landlords' act—the bread-taxing act—which in the petition, was described by the more common name of the Corn-laws. The first petition wag from the ladies boot and shoemakers of London and Westminster. It generally happened with respect to all grievances which were petitioned against, that it required a quarter of a century, before parliament would listen to complaints, and set about correcting an evil. Such had been the case with the city job, the Bank Restriction act. That grievance had lasted a quarter of a century, and he was afraid this bread-taxing act, which had been in force since 1815, would last as long. The subject was allowed to be one which ought to be considered; but then it was very doubtful when the day of consideration would come. Last year it was said the subject would be taken up this year; and this year their lordships were told the consideration was to be taken up the next. But if the time of consideration was doubtful, it was still more doubtful how far the interest of those who gained by the law would not be suffered to prevail against the public interest. Perhaps his majesty's ministers might be divided on this, as they were on some other questions; and in that case, if ever they did come to a decision, the time of coming to it must be very doubtful indeed. On this subject the noble lord opposite and his friend acted a part of a nature something like what the dissenters described as "backsliding," or at least were resolved to be only "occasional conformists" In fact, he believed they were now busy looking out for the strongest side. In another place they had been compared to the devil of the metaphysicians; but they might, with more propriety, be compared to the ass of the metaphysicians placed between two bundles of bay, and so equally attracted by the flavour of each, that he did not know how to turn. He thought, however, that they moat of all resembled the common as, which always yielded to the heaviest blows. They were now well basted on one side by the landed interest, and unless the manufacturers and other parts of the population could thump them harder,
866Lord King
 did not rise to oppose the petition from so distinguished a body, but to express his satisfaction at finding himself agreeing in opinion, for once, with the noble lord. He was glad to hear that a quarter of a century was likely to elapse before the Corn-laws were repealed; because he was persuaded that before that time expired, the petitioners themselves would alter their opinion on the subject.The Earl of Limerick
corns, when he beard from the reading of the title of the petition that it came from ladies' boot and shoemakers, he thought it must be against the cornsThe Earl of Lauderdale
 rose, before the order of the day was read, to say a few words on a subject of much importance, which he could not so conveniently introduce on the report of the committee on the Bank Charter bill being brought up, when he intended, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move a clause compelling banks or branches of the Bank of England to pay in coin at the places where their notes might be issued. His motive for rising at the present moment was, to ask the noble earl opposite a question, the answer to which might save trouble, by rendering unnecessary observations on the subject in the future discussion of the bill. What he wished to ask was, whether applications had been made by government to the directors of the Bank, with the view of inducing them to engage in a new plan of system—new at least in practice to them—by which money was proposed to be advanced on goods pawned or pledged to the Bank? If he did not receive a satisfactory answer to his question, he should take the opportunity of bringing under their lordships' consideration a new principle, which, if it corresponded with the representation given of it, he could not help thinking was most important and most alarming.The Marquis of Lansdown
867 had no hesitation in answering the noble marquis, that a communication had taken place between some of the members of hid majesty's
867The Earl of Liverpool
870869868 expressed his regret, that any application of the kind had been made to the Bank of England to induce it to adopt so questionable a measure; and he earnestly hoped that the application would be re-considered by government; or, if the government were resolved not to re-consider it, that the directors would not lend themselves to any such measure. He was the more inclined to express this hope, because, without arguing whether it was proper to make application to the Bank to give relief, but assuming that such application was necessary, he was prepared, if the proposed plan were adopted, to contend that that mode of relief was by far the most objectionable which could be resorted to. It was a doctrine admitted on all sides, that the proper and salutary course for the Bank, was to leave that body, in its transactions with the public, in as free and unembarrassed a state as possible; because they would then be able to regulate their issues according to the rise or fall of the foreign exchanges. Now, with respect to the exchanges, nothing was more likely to tie up, and embarrass the Bank more than the measure which seemed now to be proposed; namely, that of making advances to a great extent on deposits of goods. At the time of the commercial distress in 1793, this subject had been forced on the consideration of the legislature; and both Mr. Pitt and the late lord Melville were decidedly against any proposition for advances on goods, which were then unsaleable. Both these statesmen had laid down, in the strongest terms, the principle, that it was not proper to induce the Bank to depart from the regular course on which its affairs hid been conducted. He should quote their words. On its being suggested in the, debate, that the management of the relief should be left to the Bank, Mr. Pitt observed, "that from the nature of the business, the Bank bad declined interfering, because the species of the security to be given was not such as the Bank had been accustomed to receive. The measure now proposed was of a temporary nature. The practice of the Bank upon discount was permanent. The Bank took securities for what business they transacted in this
870869868The Marquis of Lansdown
872871 regretted that he was not prepared fully to explain all the circumstances of the transaction; but he was warranted in saying, that the noble marquis had been greatly misinformed on the subject, and that the whole of his observations were founded on a complete mistake. He entirely agreed with the noble marquis in all the principles he had laid down: they were, indeed, the same principles which he himself had repeatedly avowed in that place. He perfectly agreed with him, that if any proposition were to be made to the Bank which might tend to embarrass that establishment—which might prevent it from exercising a free discretion over its issues—that such proposition would be by no means consistent with good policy. He likewise agreed with him as to the difficulty of any measure which might be suggested; for there were serious objections to any interference with a view to commercial relief. Having stated this much on the general principles, he would proceed to the immediate subject to which the noble marquis had called the attention of their lordships. In the first place, as to the Bank, it now possessed the legal right of advancing money on goods. He would own that he himself, and several of his friends, who acted with him, were not aware of this state of the law. The Bank, however, had a legal right, under their charter, to make advances on deposits of goods. This right was regulated by bylaws, made by the directors, and it was governed by the same principle as the issues of money on discounts. The very same clause of the Bank charter which prohibited buying and selling, permitted discounts and advances on goods. Butt the by-laws regulated the mode of the advance, and the manner in which the goods were to be disposed of, if not redeemed. He thought it right thus to clear his way on the question of the legal right of the
872871The Earl of Liverpool
 conceived, that the supposed advantages of the measure were all founded on the assumption, which he thought could not be correct, that the goods which were unsaleable now, would be saleable in two or three months. If, at the end of that terra, no market was found for the goods, the Bank must renew the loan, or the relief would be of no avail. If it did not renew the loans from time to time until a revolution in the markets had taken place, the measure would have no advantages; and if a portion of the Bank capital were to be locked up in goods until that revolution was completed, would any man say, that while it was going on, the exchanges might not be in a state to compel the Bank to restrict its issues, and bring again on the country that calamity which their lordships were then endeavouring to remedy?The Marquis of Lansdown
873 re-stated his opinion, that the same principle ought to apply to advances on goods as to discounts. Discounts were made for a limited time, and so would be the advances on deposits. This was the mode in which, according to the by-laws, the business would be conducted. With regard to discounts, a great mistake appeared to prevail. Many persons supposed that they were made on mere personal security, but in reality they were always made with a view to goods. He would ask his noble and learned friend on the woolsack whether, from the transactions
873The Earl of Liverpool
874l.; thought that the merchants of the country were entitled to look to the government for relief, though the noble earl opposite wished to throw ail the responsibility of any thing which might be done in that way on the Bank. The noble earl had argued, that the distress of 1793 differed from the present, because it arose out of political events; but he could not admit the existence of that difference, for the present evils were also the consequence of political measures. He agreed with the noble earl in believing, that the wealth of the country was not impaired. Indeed he was of opinion, that if all the transactions of the late period of speculation were wound up and balanced, it would be found that the country was not a loser to the extent of 100,000874l.;The Earl of Lauderdale
876 said, he had great doubts as to the effect of this clause in the way in which it stood now; for it would impose upon the Bank the necessity of issuing notes of different forms, so as to show at what particular branch-banks they were payable respectively. Then, if a person presented a note for payment at a particular place, which had issued at another place, be would be told that it could not be paid there; and the consequence of this might be to excite alarm in that part of the country. The question however was one of great difficulty;
876The Earl of Lauderdale
 agreed that this proviso was one of some difficulty; but still he thought it was founded on good principles. It would, he admitted, compel the Bank to adopt notes of different forms; but, so far from that being an objection, he thought it would be an advantage; for if, as had been said, the Bank of England notes were more liable to be forged than local notes, this measure, by confining the payment of the notes issued by the branch-banks to the particular places where they had been so issued, and thus rendering their circulation local, would operate as a check td that crime, and thus effect a benefit to the public. It would also throw an impediment in the way of any persons who, actuated by malice or any other feelings might be anxious, like the man to whom the noble earl had alluded, to produce a run upon the Bank of England here, or upon any particular branch in the country. He therefore thought that the Bank ought to adopt particular forms of notes. Besides, it would be invidious towards the country banks, to compel them to pay their notes in specie, if the branch banks of the Bank of England were not equally obliged to do so. The measure would, moreover, afford an amazing check to over-issues of paper. Upon the whole, therefore, he approved of the proposition of the noble marquis.The Earl of Liverpool
877 contended, that the absence of a compulsory provision for payment by the Bank of England of its notes in coin where they had been
877The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he had a petition, against the job of jobs, the Corn-laws, to present, from the city of Rochester. He thought the people in a Kentish town might justly complain of the tax; because, in the next county to Kent, the county of Calais, corn might be got for little more than half the price that it could be bought for in Kent. It was quite natural for them to wish to abolish the Corn-laws, which made this great difference. The Kentish landlords might say, that if the price were reduced one-half, the whole agricultural interest would be ruined. But if, by repealing the Corn-laws, the price would be reduced one-half, which he did not believe would be the case, that only, more fully exposed the folly of that act, by which the power of 8 great confederacy was enabled to enforce so enormous a tax on the community at large for the benefit of the landlords and parsons.Lord King
916 put it to the good sense and the good nature of his noble, friend whether he thought the agitation of this delicate question, night after, night, could be of spy service; or whether, indeed, it could be productive of any thing but evil. If his noble friend was resolved not to follow the wise course marked out by ministers, not to agitate this topic in the
916The Earl of Darnley
 said, that knowing from what quarter this good advice came, he could not think of following it. His noble friend might pursue one course; but he was determined to persevere in another. His noble friend joined in the sentiments of a noble earl, who on a former night had expressed a hope that "little harangues" would not be made on this subject. Now, that might be a very good course for those who were supporters of the Corn-laws, but it was one which he could never adopt, decidedly opposed as he was to those laws. The reasons urged to induce him to abstain from those "little harangues" were precisely those which must induce him to persevere. The opponents of the Corn-laws had no chance of success, but by the subject being debated day after day. They had already been jilted on one, or two occasions, when it was expected the question would be brought under consideration.Lord King
917 said, the noble lord must have a very different idea of debating a question, from what he entertained, if he thought such a perpetual recurrence to it, a debate. Last session he had constantly made attacks on the bench of bishops, and seemed to suppose that was debating the Catholic question. In the same manner he had attacked the learned lord on the woolsack, as if he supposed that he was debating the Chancery question, while he was uttering witticisms on the lord chancellor. The noble lord must have a very strange idea of debating, if he supposed that sarcasms, or downright abuse, of the landed interest, was the best method of discussing the Corn question. The noble lord had said they wished to starve the poor; but when there was
917The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that the noble lord had lately presented a similar petition from the weavers of Perth, who, a few years ago, in a time of general distress, were principally supported by the landed interest. Not less than 1,500 of them were maintained entirely at the expense of the landed proprietors, and he had in his possession a letter expressing their grateful thanks for the succour afforded to them. The petition which they had intrusted to the noble lord was a poor return for so much kindness on the part of the landed interest. The noble lord endeavoured to irritate the poor against the landed interest, and in doing this, he seemed to be guided neither by wisdom nor good sense, nor gentlemanly conduct. Such attacks were derogatory to the dignity of their lordships. He pledged himself, whenever the question was brought forward, to examine it without any regard to individual interest, but solely with a view to its effects on the interests of the whole kingdom.The Duke of Athol
918 said, that he should always tell the truth, whether it were agreeable to the noble duke or not. As to the petition from Perth, he knew nothing more of it than that it was put into his hands to present to their lordships; but if the noble duke had formerly 1,500 weavers to subsist, he was likely, under the present system, to have 3000 next year. A noble earl had implied, that he had been the cause of the Bank Restriction act; but, in this the noble earl had made a strange mistake, for the Bank Restriction act was passed in 1797, and the transaction to which he alluded did not take place till 1811. The noble earl might have learned the reason for his conduct, if he had turned to a noble lord (Bexley) a few paces on his left hand. On a certain day in June, in that year, the then chancellor of the Exchequer had placed a resolution on the Journals of the House of Commons, declaring that the paper circulation of the country and gold were equivalent in value. He was astonished how so absurd, so contemptible a statement, could have been made by any man, and still more astonished that it should have been gravely re-
918Lord King
, recommended the noble lord, for his own sake, not to repeat the same story every day, or, like the parrots, it might happen not to attract attention.The Earl of Limerick
1076 rose to present a petition against the most gigantic of all jobs. It came from the working community of Manchester and its neighbourhood, and was signed by 40,000 persons, and would have been signed by 20,000 more, had it not been for the delay and expense of collecting them. He thought that the character of that House would depend on the result of their lordships' determination respecting the Corn-laws. In coming to this question, their lordships ought to recollect, that the public were very good judges, not only of the value of their decisions, but of the motives of them also. The petitioners stated, that the Corn-laws were made for the benefit of the landlords; but in that House it was always argued, that those laws were established for the benefit of the public; and those who were most forward in maintaining this doctrine, Were among the persons who contended for unlimited trade in every other respect. The people, however, were now too well informed on the subject, and their lordships must expect to draw very largely on public credulity, if they thought they could make it be believed that those laws were for any body's benefit but the landowners. Some noble lords, however, objected very much to "little harangues" on corn, and wished to have nothing said on the subject, except in a real debate, in which they might sport all the variety of their ingenuity. These great orators were like those sportsmen who wished to abstain from shooting occasionally, in order to have he great shooting day. Others, on the contrary, chose to shoot every day in the year, and he believed that, in the end, they killed more than those who reserved themselves for one great annual battle. When the great debate day did come, he had no doubt that some noble lords would
1076Lord King
1167116611651164116311621161 said, that in rising to deliver his sentiments on the question of West-India slavery, he felt that the subject was one from which he could willingly have abstained altogether, and which few could approach with any thing like satisfaction. He well knew, and it had been a matter of boast among the abolitionists, that, for some time past, and especially of late, public attention had been earnestly drawn to the state of the negroes in the West Indies. From every corner of the kingdom, from every city, corporation, town, and village, parliament had received the almost unanimous expression of disgust, not only against the hateful means by which men were reduced to that condition, but against slavery itself. Such an expression of strong feeling was at all times entitled to respect, independent of the merits of the case; and there could not be a shadow of doubt that this increase of interest among so large a portion of our fellow subjects, was to be ascribed to the increase of knowledge, humanity, and religion. So far there was good reason to rejoice; but having admitted it, he hoped he might add, without offence, certainly without the desire of offending, that the fervent zeal lately manifested was in part to be attributed to other and far different causes. The present was a period of great public tranquillity, although it had been subjected to a temporary interruption—he hoped he might also say of great national prosperity—it was also a period of great intellectual activity and enterprise; and while the means of employment were below their usual average, the desire of obtaining it was more than ordinary: in other words,
1167116611651164116311621161Lord Dudley and Ward
11691168 condemned the conduct of the colonial legislatures in neglecting to give effect to the resolutions then on the table of their lordships House, and hoped the length of time that had elapsed since those resolutions had been agreed to by the House of Commons, without the concurrence of their lordships in them having been obtained, had not been understood by the colonists to have been caused by any difference of opinion on the subject. He had at all times endeavoured rather to abstain from discussing the subject himself, than to enter upon it, from the deep sense he entertained of its difficulty. He felt that it was a question which ought to be discussed without passion, and with reference also to the opinions and the interests of those with whom it was most desirable, if possible to co-operate. He had hoped that ere this, the time would have arrived, when the West-India planters, and the colonial legislatures would have been awakened to a sense of humanity and religion; and from humanity he would contend religion never could be separated. But he bad been disappointed; and he felt particularly disappointed in the refusal of the West-India proprietors to secure to the slaves the means by which they could acquire property. He had entertained a hope that the colonial legislatures, would have at least so far entered into the views of the parliament of Great Britain; but he repeated his regret at his disappointment. He was the last man who would recommend the adoption of the course mentioned by his noble friend who spoke last, namely, to seize upon individual cases on which to found arguments against a system. It was not upon partial anecdotes, or isolated instances, that he founded his opinion, that it was time for the legislature of this country to interfere. That opinion was founded upon the proceedings of the colonists themselves in their houses of assembly; and on that ground he would call upon their lordships to give effect to the resolutions, by exhibiting a determination to see them adopted. It was essential to the character of the British nation; it was essential to the dignity of the British parliament; it was essential to the
11691168The Marquis of Lansdown
114911481147114611451144 said, he was ready to
114911481147114611451144Lord Calthorpe
115211511150 thought that the House was placed in rather an extraordinary situation by having had now for the first time submitted to them resolutions passed elsewhere nearly three years ago, and which they had had the opportunity, in the intervening time, of knowing were proved to be useless and inadequate for the accomplishment of their intended object. The true question before them was, ought they to adopt resolutions thus proved to have been ineffectual or to adopt others more likely to promote a salutary result? He agreed that the colonial system ought to be greatly ameliorated; he agreed that the odious system of slavery ought to be abolished; but his doubts were great, that either purpose would be attained by the line of conduct now proposed. The true question then was, in what manner could they most easily, surely, and rapidly diminish the sum of human misery which must exist so long as slavery was tolerated? If these resolutions were alone to be adopted, accompanied with a vague hint, that if they failed in their intended effect, the legislature would proceed to ulterior measures, without avowing what the nature of such measures would be, he not only doubted that the anticipations of the government would be realised, but inclined to the opinion, that such a course, instead of diminishing, would tend to aggravate the existing evil. He confessed, that as the subject was now placed before him, he could not see his way through the difficulties which on all sides encompassed it. The noble earl had said, that if the present step were not effectual, the government would resort to other means. What were those means? What objection could there be to supply a description of them? He desired to know what their nature would be, before he was implicated one step in such a system of legislative interference. The noble earl was obliged to admit that the colonial assemblies had disappointed the expectations of his majesty's government; but he nevertheless went on to state, that they had shown a disposition to amend their practice, that they had made a large provision for the clergy of the established church, that they had taken steps for the education of slave
115211511150Lord Ellenborough
11541153 said, that if the noble lord's speech meant any thing, it would go the length of recommending that parliament should do nothing at ail in this momentous question. And was this a decision in which they could for a moment acquiesce? If all (as he believed was the case) were prepared to agree in the abstract, that slavery ought to be abolished, if all were agreed that immediate steps should be taken to ameliorate the condition of the slave, and qualify him for eventual enfranchisement, then how was it that any noble lord could consistently call upon them to take no step in the accomplishment of their professed object? If the noble lord asked him, why had these resolutions been so long in their passage from one House of Parliament to the other—he had little in the way of explanation to offer, and would fairly admit that he had no satisfactory reason to assign why such a delay should have arisen; but he would nevertheless add, that if their present appearance before their lordships was calculated to show that government were serious and determined in the course which these resolutions implied, and would thereby give another chance of success to the experiment, he, for one, was not sorry that such an opportunity had been afforded of putting on record the determination of parliament and the government. The question, was not, however, why these resolutions had
11541153The Earl of Liverpool
1155 said, he felt it incumbent on him to say a few words on the present occasion. He was ready to agree with those who regretted that these resolutions had not been sooner submitted to their lordships. He was ready also to agree with those who thought it would have been better if they had been expressed in stronger terms; but still as they were here, and must be taken in their present form, he was ready to give them his cordial support. He confessed also, that he did not think they were called upon to state by anticipation what course they should determine to pursue in the event of their resolutions being disregarded. But he thought that, waiving for the present this ulterior consideration, the more
1155The Duke of Gloucester
1159115811571156 said:—My lords, if I understand rightly the course which we are called upon this evening to pursue, it is to give additional effect to resolutions transmitted from the lower House of Parliament. But it has been objected by one noble lord (Calthorpe) that in the first place these resolutions state no stronger ground for the measures proposed than that of expediency, and that expediency is no sufficient ground. Another noble lord (Ellenborough) contends, in the second place, that the effect of these resolutions, if your lordships should even agree to them, would amount to nothing at all. A further objection has been made as to the late period at which they are brought up hither. Now, with regard to the communicating to your lordships these resolutions at so late a period, after their being passed elsewhere, I will take the liberty of saying, that I cannot help thinking it would be an infinitely better plan to go upon generally, that when either House of parliament adopts resolutions or measures of an important character, affecting great political or private rights, it should forthwith communicate such measures or resolutions to the other House of Parliament; and I shall say nothing more on that subject. The resolutions in question are here, at last, that is
1159115811571156The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he should not have risen at that late hour, if, it were not to obviate the impression which might prevail, from the circumstance that no petitions had been presented on the subject from Ireland, and that therefore his country did not participate in the feelings of the people of England. But, in fact, the feelings of the people of Ireland had been evinced on the subject long ago. When the restrictions on the trade of that country were first relaxed, an attempt was made to form companies for the purpose of carrying on the African slave trade; but that attempt had been put down by a single sentence from one individual. A meeting was called at Cork, and the persons who called it stated the great advantages of the trade; but an old man rose in the midst of those assembled, and in terms too coarse to be repeated, he uttered a malediction on the head of the first man who should contribute the least assistance in promoting so infamous an object. The imprecation (he hoped it was heard in mercy, and forgiven) had the desired effect. The project was abandoned, and from that time, which was forty years ago, to the present no man had been found to revive the subject. Thus the opinion of the people of Ireland upon this question might be said to have been long since practically declared. He thought it necessary to state these particulars, in order to obviate any imputation that might arise, in consequence of no petition having been presented from Ireland against the slave trade at this particular juncture. For himself, he had only to say, that the resolutions before their lordships had his most cordial concurrence, embodying, as they did, the solemn advice of both Houses of parliament to the colonial governments. He thought that they were, in their present shape, as well calculated as possible to produce a good effect; and that if they were accompanied by any threat, they would only tend to create intemperance and ill-will, instead of amicable acquiescence.The Bishop of Ferns
11711170 said, that after all that had been said and written on the subject of slavery, he little
11711170The Bishop of Bath, and Wells
117411731172 stated, that, though not able to give the noble marquis opposite the satisfaction of hearing that the slave, when prepared with the means of purchasing his freedom, could demand it as a right, nevertheless, in the island of Jamaica, with which he (lord St. Vincent) was connected, he had been credibly informed that nearly four thousand slaves were voluntarily emancipated between the years 1820 and 1823., This was the more satisfactory, as well as the more honourable, as it arose from the mere spontaneous act of the master. In addition to what he had stated, the legislative body of the Island of Jamacia passed an act, by which slaves, under certain forms, notwithstanding any limitation, entail, debt, or ether legal difficulties, might be emancipated. It was but fair to conclude, that the same feeling which had produced so considerable a manumission under many existing impediments, now that such impediments were removed, would operate in a much greater ratio. He (lord St. Vincent) had no doubt that the same generous impulse had equally operated in the other colonies; but not having the same means of information as to their local transactions, he could not state it as a fact.117411731172Lord St. Vincent
 expressed a hope, that the noble earl would give some more definite answer with respect to the expected early meeting of the different colonial Assemblies. It was of the utmost importance that parliament should be put in possession, at the earliest possible period, of the proceedings taken by the local legislatures, upon these resolutions, otherwise two years might elapse before further measures were adopted in this country.Lord Suffield
 said, he could only repeat that instructions had been sent out to the different islands to convene the Assemblies at the earliest possible period; and those instructions, no doubt, would be complied with.Earl Bathurst
 said, that he had already given instructions, that in Jamaica the house of Assembly should be convened as soon as the season would permit; and the same instructions had been given to all the other colonies.Earl Bathurst
114311421141 then rose. The noble earl began b}' observing, that he was happy to say it would not be necessary for him to trouble their lordships at much length, to induce them to agree to the motion with which he meant to conclude. The resolutions of the House of Commons which had just been read had been made the foundation of certain instructions for improving the situation of the slave population in the West-India colonies. Their lordships would recollect that, more than two years ago, he had had the honour of calling their lordships' attention to those instructions which, in point of fact, had been embodied in the shape of orders in council, and sent out to the colonies. In those orders in council provision was made for the execution of all those measures which his majesty's government thought necessary for carrying into effect the plan of improvement founded on the resolutions of the House of Commons. He had great satisfaction in saying, that the measures thus adopted by government had experienced no objection from any quarter in this country, but, on the contrary, had met with general approbation. In consequence of this general approbation, he had felt the more confidence in urging the measures on the
114311421141Earl Bathurst
1160 said, he gave his cordial assent to the resolutions, being firmly convinced of their justice. If any thing was calculated to defeat the measure, it would be the violence which was manifested in many of the petitions which had been laid upon their lordships' table. In the island of Trinidad, the colonial government had taken upon itself to make some enactments on the subject, and the system was working extremely well there. Of the mischievous effects of a sudden emancipation from slavery, the island of St. Domingo afforded a fatal example; he was, therefore, in favour of a gradual abolition of the system. It was well known, from history, that slavery formerly existed in this country, but the number of slaves was comparatively few. In the reign of Richard, the whole number was 180,000; but what proportion did that bear to the whole population? What proportion also did the slaves in the Roman establishment bear to the population? It might be asked, why was Jamaica more backward than any of the other colonies, in conforming to the already expressed wishes of the British legislature? Probably because she had the example of St. Domingo before her, and dreaded a repetition of the horrible scene of massacre and bloodshed which succeeded the simultaneous emancipation of the slaves on that island. Should we not, then, allow for the feelings of the white inhabitants of this particular colony? and, however we might wish that they would forget the past, was it not excusable in them with such an example to refer to, to look on their sable neighbours with distrust and alarm? With respect to the measures proposed, if they were proceeded in with calmness and temperance, there was little doubt of their ultimate success. There could not be a second opinion as to the improvement which the adoption of these resolutions would introduce into the colonies. Both masters and slaves would feel their benefit, and the former would find a sensible difference in having slaves by wages, instead of holding in bondage a feeble and degraded race of men, whose obedience could only be purchased by the terrors of the lash. If the slaves were allowed to purchase their own
1160Lord Redesdale
12081207 thought himself bound, as the clerical representative of that part of the kingdom, to say a few words on this subject. He should call on the House to exercise all their indulgence towards him, for he was not much accustomed to addressing public bodies on any subject, and on this subject par-
12081207The Bishop of Ferns
1201, in rising to present a petition on this subject from a highly respectable body of individuals; said it had been in his hands for some days, and the reason why he had not brought it forward before was, that he saw the attention of parliament directed towards those measures which were introduced for the purpose of alleviating the commercial distress under which the country laboured. He had therefore thought it better to postpone the consideration of if, until the improved circumstances of the country would allow their lordships to give it that attention which the importance of the question deserved. Moreover, he found that parliament had been engaged on another subject, in which a certain portion of the community took a great interest; namely, those measures which were adopted for ameliorating the condition of the slaves. Though he by no means found fault with the ardent zeal which was evinced on behalf of the slaves, yet he must confess that his humanity was not of so excursive a nature, but that he must consider the state of a great proportion of the pool of Ireland quite as interesting as that of the slaves of the West Indies. In fact, the condition of the slaves in those islands was not, in many cases, so bad as the condition of the Irish poor. If was riot at present his intention to enter into any discussion on this subject, but he pledged himself to do so on some future occasion. In the mean time, he hoped their lordships would fee as much sympathy for the peasantry of Ireland, as they did for the slaves of-the West Indies. It appeared that the prime movers of the petitions in favour of the slaves belonged to a powerful sect, who, by an unnatural alliance with the high church, had contributed more than any other to that unfortunate decision against the Catholics which their lordships had come to in the course of the last sessions While they called upon their lordships to precipitate the emancipation of the
1201The Earl of Darnley
1202 said, that with respect to what was stated in the petition on the subject of divided allegiance, that such a charge amounted to a charge of perjury, he must disclaim ever having made it. The Catholics declared, that in taking the oath of allegiance to his majesty, they disclaimed any divided allegiance, and he was convinced that in swearing allegiance, they swore what they conscientiously believed to be true. But they
1202The Earl of Liverpool
1203 said, he had another petition to present against the job of jobs. It came from the carpenters and joiners of London, and was signed by 1,400 persons, who stated, that the law which excluded foreign corn greatly injured them, by the manner in which it affected the remuneration of their labour, and he agreed with them la the opinion. Some people were very fond of high prices, high rents, and high wages. By high prices they alleged that every thing was equalized; but in his opinion this sort of equalization did not produce any thing like equity or justice between parties. The great desideratum with the supporters of the Corn laws, wag certainly at all times high rents. But how were high rents to be obtained without high prices? The real object, then, was high prices; and high prices were not to be had without the exclusion of foreign corn. But, if you exclude foreign corn, you exclude food. Some people, however, said, that this exclusion of foreign corn created more English food. But it could do so in no other way than by forcing bad land; and if bad land was forced to produce food, it must be at the expense of so much additional labour—of labour far more than equivalent to the value of the food produced. Still, however, some persons said, "If you alter the Corn laws you will do no good, because to lower the price of corn will only be to lower the price of labour with it." But this was a very erroneous opinion; as the present state of things, compared with that when corn was cheap, would show. The price of labour now afforded the labourer only a bare existence, whereas heretofore he got enough, not only for his subsistence, but for comforts. It was certainly true that if corn were cheap, the money price
1203Lord King
1204 said, he was for la free trade in corn as well as in everything else, but did not think that the question was one which should be discussed in the present state of the country. The noble lord went into arguments which others were not prepared to answer, and which, if they were, ought not to be discussed at that time. He could not acquiesce in the term "job" given to an act of parliament, which had not been adopted untilafter the most serious consideration. The measure was introduced in one session, and was not adopted until the next. Parliament might have erred, but if there was error, it was not intentional. If, upon due consideration, it should be found that the Corn laws were not consistent with the general interest, parliament would doubtless alter them. His wish was, that the agriculturist and the manufacturer should be placed on an equal footing, and that the Corn laws should form no impediment m the way of free trade. But his noble friend should consider what had been the effect produced by the Bank Restriction Set, the operation of which had lasted for twenty-five years. After the operation of that act had brought into cultivation land which Was never before cultivated, and had also brought into existence an immense agricultural population, which would be thrown out of employ by the discontinuance of that cultivation, he did not think that their lordships could suddenly rid themselves of all the consequences of that measure, without producing in every part of the country, greater distress than could be experienced by the journeymen carpenters of London; who he believed were as well off as most workmen. He made these observations, to show that it was not the landlords who were altogether to blame with respect to the Corn laws. The present was a period of commercial distress; but it should be recollected, that there had also been a time of agricultural distress. But at that time did not persons in trade also suffer? Did they not complain that the
1204The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he did not rise in the expectation of correcting the vicious propensity of his noble friend who presented the petition, the only effect of whose language, in returning again and again to the same subject, must be to create discontent; which he knew could not be the intention of his noble friend. With regard to his own opinion on the Corn laws, it was a mistaketo suppose that he had decided against any alteration. If, however, parliament should withdraw all protection from agriculture, he did not think that such an alteration would be advantageous to the labourer; for if bread became cheap, labour would be cheap also. The question, in fact, was not one of high rents, but whether this country, involved in great domestic and financial difficulties, could compete on the same terms with countries experiencing no such embarrassments. He had thought it necessary to say this much, but hoped he should not be again provoked to notice the subject, until it came regularly under the consideration of the House.The Earl of Darnley
1205 did not doubt but he should have occasion to provoke his noble friend again and again on this subject, if he was determined to be provoked every time a petition was presented. It was singular enough, however, that his two noble friends took such different views of his conduct. The one thought that he took the House by surprise with his arguments, the other that he used the same arguments too often. Nevertheless they both agreed in wishing him to discontinue his practice of addressing the House. It was certainly kind of his two noble friends to favour him with so much of their advice. He had indeed, got a great deal of advice of late; but he could not help thinking that there was occasionally something in the nature of it, that rendered it rather suspicion. He had been entreated, both in prose and
1205Lord King
 thought the noble earl had not laid before the House sufficient grounds to induce them to accede to his motion. He had moved for a committee, while the very papers which he held in his hands would, if examined, have afforded an answer thereto. There could be little doubt, that in some cases these unions of parishes had been a great evil; but he did not think that observation could be properly made of those unions which had been effected under episcopal authority, and which must, therefore, be supposed to have been made on good consideration. It was said, that many of these unions were without a single church, and blame had been attributed to the government on that account. Now, the fact was, that the government were not at all insensible to the evils of which the noble earl had complained. That they were not insensible to these evils, might be proved by the single fact, that in the twenty years preceding 1822,175 churches had been built in the province of Munster, and 122 glebe houses had been given. In the particular case to which the noble earl had alluded, the vicar was not resident, but the curate had always attended. These returns contained all the information that the noble earl could acquire, even if the committee were granted; and for himself he must say, that he thought the granting of a committee would be casting an undeserved slur on the dignitaries of the church of Ireland.The Earl of Harrowby
1206 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. He had hoped, he said, that the subject would have been taken up by some one better qualified for the task than he was; and indeed he wished it had been brought before their lordships by one of the learned prelates, to whose province it more particularly belonged. From the reports upon their lordships' table, it appeared, that a vast number of unions of parishes had taken place in the province of Munster, not such unions as that of seven religious houses in the city of Cork, which altogether did not extend over half a mile; but of large parishes, extending over a distance of fifteen miles. In that large union, there was only one church, and that one church had been built by a private individual, the ancestor of the present lord Massey. In the province of Munster, their lordships would find instances of six, seven, and eight parishes united together, with but one church amongst them all. Now, it was impossible to expect people to remain of the Protestant religion in a place where they had no church to attend, and where they could not even procure the attendance of a clergyman in cases of emergency. He bad been told, that no curate had been seen in the parish of Kilbennie for several years, and that the inhabitants were therefore obliged, when they required the performance of any religious office, to send to the rector of another parish five or six miles off. He did not mean, by making these observations, to say any thing disrespectful of the clergy. Undoubtedly, they had done much. Many churches had been built, but they had not funds to build all that were necessary. In moving, therefore, for a commitee to consider the present state of the church in Munster, he was rather addressing himself to his majesty's ministers, in the hope of inducing them to furnish the clergy with the means of building churches, and per-
1206The Earl of Kingston
 insisted that he had made out a case to justify his motion, and that the circumstances stated by the right rev. prelate proved it. He knew a district in the South of Ireland, through which one might travel along the high road for a distance of twenty-two miles without seeing a single church. Although, however, he was satisfied that he had fully made out a case, yet as his object in: bringing forward his motion was to point the attention of the learned prelates to the subject, he was willing to abstain from pressing it.—His lordship accordingly withdrew his motion.The Earl of Kingston
1344 said, he held in his hand a peti-
1344Earl Grosvenor
 said, that having been requested to present this petition with his noble friend, he had great pleasure in doing so. He concurred in the sympathy expressed for the sufferings of the negro population of the West Indies, but he was content to leave the details of the measures for their relief in the hands of his majesty's ministers, being satisfied that, with regard to this subject, they were actuated by the same feelings of justice and humanity as the public, and were likely to proceed with more discretion and policy.The Bishop of Chester
1345 said, he had a petition to present on a point connected with the West-India slavery, which had not been touched upon in the late debates on that subject; namely, the situation of free men of colour. It appeared, that according to the laws of Barbadoes and other islands, the evidence of free persons of colour could not be received against whites. In case of their incarceration on any charge, they could not be allowed to go at large, unless they obtained what was called white bail. They could not serve as constables or jurymen, and were not allowed to vote on the election of white men to offices. It was evidently absurd to talk of giving liberty to the blacks in the West Indies, if those men of colour who were already emancipated, were not allowed to enjoy the rights of free men. The petitioner was very modest in his demand. He only prayed that their lordships would institute an inquiry into the propriety of considering how far free men of colour ought to obtain relief. From this prayer their lordships would perceive that he was not a person who was inclined to dash at once to a conclusion. He was, however, a
1345Lord Ellenborough
1346 said, he rose to present a petition against that real dead-weight, or job of jobs, the Corn laws. On this subject he had already had the misfortune to provoke two of his noble friends. One of them had told him, that it was very improper to take the House by surprise with arguments which noble lards were not prepared to answer. On the present, occasion, therefore, he should avoid any of those abstruse principles of political economy which had been so much complained of, but would confine himself to history and plain matter of fact. Turning, then, to history, he must remind their lordships of the period when the Corn laws were passed. That event took place in those dark ages of legislation, in those times of ignorance, when it was gravely declared that a one-pound note was equal in value to a sovereign. Then it was, when our political sun was in obscuration, that a law was passed to make corn and bread dear. Tradition said, that after a very expensive war, the landlords objected to pay their share of the expense. They liked the war very well, but they did not like to be called upon when the bill came to be settled. They then took counsel how to avoid paying their part of the bill. Two ways occurred to them of accomplishing that object. The first was by defrauding the public creditor; the second by taxing the consumers of corn. Now it happened, that to the first course the government objected the public creditor was therefore
1346Lord King
1347 declared, that when the noble lord began to address their lordships, he had no intention of replying to any thing which might be said on the subject of this petition. He was, how-
1347The Earl of Limerick
1348l., in moving the order of the day for the second reading of this bill, observed, that it was not his intention to enter into any statements upon this occasion; because, when he brought forward the measure relating to the Bank charter, he had put their lordships in possession of the whole system which his majesty's government thought advisable to adopt with respect to this subject. Should any doubt arise with respect to the provisions of this bill, or any objection be urged against it, he should be ready to state in explanation whatever might occur to his mind. The operation of this bill was intended to be confined to England; its object was, to extinguish the circulation of notes under 51348l.The Earl of Liverpool
13521351l.l.1350l.l.1349 objected to the whole of this measure; first, on account of the time at which it was introduced; next, on account of the circumstances under which it was brought forward; and thirdly, on the abstract principle, that a paper-currency founded on a metallic one was the best and the safest for the interest of this country. He also objected to it because it was intended to prevent the recurrence of such crises as that which the country had lately suffered and continued to endure, convinced as he was that it would be found wholly inoperative for that purpose. It was therefore his determination to give it a decided negative. If the measure professed to afford relief to the present distress, he should, perhaps, have hesitated before he offered any opposition to it; but when it was admitted, that it would bring no relief at present, and was hastily brought forward without inquiry, not for the purpose of meeting the existing evil, but to prevent a recurrence of it, the case was widely different. He was not for adopting measures to-day, which it might be found expedient to abandon to-morrow; and if any question brought forward under such circumstances were more calculated to produce mischief than another, it was a question affecting the currency of the country. The effect of the bill was counteracted by the principle of another measure with which it had been coupled, respecting the Bank of England. To that measure he did not object; but he felt that it strengthened his objection to the adoption of this bill at present, when the agitation which it excited in the public mind had produced the introduction of another measure before this had gone through the House. It produced the greatest effects upon the money-market at this moment. He knew, however, that that argument would be met by the observation, that the measure ought therefore to be set at rest at once. Now, he should rather say, in the present state of the money-market, let them wave all future considerations now, and apply their minds to the application of a remedy to the existing distress. But no; a different line of conduct was adopted by his majesty's government. They said they had foreseen the evils which had arrived, and therefore would apply no remedy to them. Others might do so if they pleased, and
13521351l.l.1350l.l.1349The Earl of Carnarvon
1353 said, he could not agree with his noble friend in thinking that this measure was likely to prove injurious to the poor. Indeed, he should give it his support, because he looked upon it as the first duty of government to protect the labouring classes from the misery to which they had lately been exposed by the stoppage of so many banks. If he could bring himself to believe that its effect would be to throw a large por-
1353The Earl of Darnley
135613551354 said, he wished to make a few observations on what had fallen from the noble earl who had moved the amendment; but, in the first place, he was desirous to reply to some remarks from the noble earl who had just spoken.
135613551354The Earl of Liverpool
1358l.1357 said, he agreed
1358l.1357The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that there was some difficulty connected with this subject. It formed a separate question from the general one relating to slavery; but it bad not been overlooked, and was under the consideration of government.Earl Bathurst
1374 said, he held in his hand a petition from the same body in Manchester from which, a few days before he presented a petition in favour of the bill, for putting an end to the circulation of small notes. The petitioners thought the subject was materially connected with that bill; and he could not but think that it had, if not directly, at least indirectly, a connection with it, as it related to the subject of commercial distress. The object of this petition was, to call their lordships' attention to the Usury Laws. Those laws had certainly greatly aggravated the distress which prevailed among the mercantile classes. Few of their lordships could be aware of the great loss of capital and loss of interest, which had taken place, within the last six months, in consequence of that unfortunate attempt of the law of England to fix the value of capital,—to make that fixed which was in its nature unfixed and variable. This constituted a state of things which had been the ruin of many individuals; but he spoke not now so much with reference to the effect of the law on the landed interest as to its operations on commerce. Such was the state of the law, that if persons found it necessary to borrow money they could not do so on terms above the fixed rate. What was this but saying that they might borrow money when they had no occasion do so; but that when their exigencies required them to borrow, the law should step in and shut them out from that resource? Thus, in times of great pressure, the law compelled persons in difficulty to resort to the most ruinous terms. This was as inconsistent as it would be to say to a person insuring his life, that no insurance should be effected for less than ten years' purchase. The principle was the same as telling such a person, that when he was in good health he might effect his purpose, but that at a moment of sickness or in advanced age, when insurance became the more necessary for the sake of his wife and children, he should then be deprived of the opportunity of taking such a step. He defied any noble lord to show that there was the least difference in principle between a law which would prohibit the insurance of life at such value as might be put upon it, and one which prevented a man from
1374The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he had had an opportunity of learning the sentiments of the petitioners, at a meeting which took place some time ago, when certain persons belonging to the same body as the petitioners, applied to government to learn whether it could not afford relief to the existing commercial distress. Those persons assured him that they should not have made, nor would they have had pretence for making, application to government for relief, had it not been for the circumstances in which they were placed by the Usury Laws. Now he was aware that obstacles stood in the way of abrogating those laws altogether, in consequence of their bearing on particular interests; but, notwithstanding this, he was of opinion, that at no distant day their lordships must give their best consideration to the state of those laws. The question was one of much difficulty, but the present state of the law could be defended on no sound principle.The Earl of Liverpool
l. rose to move for a select committee, to inquire into the state of the circulation of Promissory Notes under 5l.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought the proposed inquiry could now be of no service. His majesty's government, before they had announced any intention of interfering with the system, ought to have been fully informed; and he supposed that they must have had sufficient information. Why, therefore, was there now to be as elect committee appointed to inquire into the subject? He believed that all this originated in the fears excited in the minds of ministers by a celebrated personage, no other than Malachi Malagrowther; but he did not think it wise to yield to those fears, or to enter into any discussion upon a subject on which full information had been obtained. Indeed, he thought the discussion should have been left to Bradwardine Waverley, from whose hands Malagrowther seemed to have received a full and satisfactory reply. His lordship then repeated his former arguments with respect to a summary remedy for compelling the payment of small notes, and thereby giving to the poor, for whose benefit these alterations were professed to be made, real and effectual security.Earl Grosvenor
1393 thought the objections of the noble earl to the appointment of a committee most extraordinary. At the commencement of the session, it
1393The Earl of Liverpool
 could not see any insuperable obstacle to the establishing, of chartered banks within a limited distance of the metropolis. It did not appear that there had been any offer of compensation made to the Bank of England to induce it to relinquish this portion of its privileges; and no one could suppose that the Bank would gratuitously make the country a present of this boon. The present proceeding was a most extraordinary one: for after applying this measure to England, without having made any inquiry as to its expediency, it was now proposed to lump Scotland and Ireland together, and to inquire whether it would be expedient to extend it to those countries. Besides, was it a proper season for agitating this question, when credit was in a ticklish state, and confidence in a great degree destroyed? Instead of disturbing the public mind by this alarming proposition, it would have been more politic to have had recourse to some healing expedients. He conceived it would have been much better that this inquiry should have been conducted before a committee of the whole House; for when he saw that the committee selected for this investigation consisted of nearly the same persons who constituted the committee in 1819, he was afraid there was little probability that the paper system would have A fair chance before such judges, as he bad no doubt that these Midases would resolve to extract bullion blossoms from Caledonian thistles. Why the House should be called upon to alter the currency of Scotland, when no human being had complained that that currency did not work well in practice, he could not conceive. At any rate, the committee ought not to have been a select one, but a committee of the whole House."The Earl of Carnarvon
1400 agreed in thinking that it would have been better to have referred this measure to a committee of the whole House. Had that been done, the consequence must have been the abandonment of it at least for one year. But the whole proceeding struck him as a most extraordinary one; for their lordships had, in a few days, without any inquiry, determined upon the adoption of this measure for England, and now it was proposed to inquire how far it might be advisable to extend if to Scotland and Ireland; when, in point of fact, unless it was extended to these two countries, it must be wholly ineffectual for England. There-
1400Lord Ellenborough
 said, his noble friend was under a mistake if he supposed that any measure was to be immediately introduced. The committee had, in fact, been appointed, and his noble friend should have made his objections on that motion. The question before their lordships was, to refer the petitions to that committee, and his noble friend could not surely object to that. There were many individuals who were totally unacquainted with the Scotch system of banking; and by having the committee, their lordships would have the details brought before them, and he better enabled to judge of the propriety of extending the measure to Scotland. His noble friend had hinted that the measure would be prejudicial if extended to Scotland; but he was sure the noble lords who were to compose the committee would not concur in recommending any measure which was not proper. It was quite a mistake to suppose that the committee would inquire into the stability of particular Scotch bankers; but it was due to those bankers to state, that they made no objection to a full inquiry into the effects of the system; in fact, they wished the inquiry to be made. At least, this good would result from the committee, that it would bring before their lordships, when the report should be made, all the details of the system, and satisfy them whether the measure should be adopted in Scotland or not.Lord Melville
1395 said, that being connected with Ireland, he would not shrink from giving his opinion as to the effects of extending the proposed measure to that part of the kingdom. He agreed with the noble earl who spoke last but one, in regretting that a committee should be appointed to consider of the propriety of extending the measure to Scotland and Ireland, when in those countries it was not at all called for. Where there was no disease, no remedy was required. Their lordships should wait to see the
1395The Earl of Limerick
1396 would ask the noble earl opposite what was the professed object of this measure as applied to England, but to restore confidence? Now, he was at a loss to see how it could restore confidence; and hitherto it had only operated against restoring confidence. But how, such a measure could be thought necessary to restore confidence in Scotland was what neither the noble earl nor any other person could take upon himself to say. In Scotland a perfect confidence already existed. The people of that country were universally satisfied with their banking establishment at Edinburgh. There was but one dissentient, and he was a retired goldsmith, who moved an amendment to the proposed motion, at a very large meeting there, to the effect that every dependence was to be placed on the wisdom of his majesty's government. He could not help being curious to know who this gentleman was who entertained so singular an opinion. He learned that he was a retired goldsmith, and therefore supposed that the habits of his life had produced this extraordinary attachment to a currency consisting of that metal. It reminded him of a story told by Dr. Johnson, in one of his pamphlets. The doctor, in describing the effect, of habit on mankind, related an anecdote of a retired tallow-chandler, who, on selling his business, stipulated that he should be allowed to attend his old shop on melting-days. As to the appointment of a committee, it appeared
1396The Earl of Lauderdale
13981397 was surprised that the noble lord should persist in objecting to all inquiry. He now, it seemed, thought it would be more dignified in ministers to do that which he had often accused them of doing; namely, come forward with a measure, and force it down the throats of parliament. With respect to what a noble earl had said on the subject of Ireland, he was astonished at the nature of his argument; for, if it was true that Scotland had been benefited by her banking system, surely the same thing could not be said of Ireland. The noble earl could not say that that country had not suffered by the failure of banks; for certainly no country had suffered more in that way than Ireland.
13981397The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the noble earl supposed a case of necessity arising for applications from Scotland for commercial relief, either by Exchequer-bills or advances from the Bank. Now, if it were not for the noble earl's new mode of management, how would his argument stand? In a period of commercial distress, the people of Scotland had just as good a right to apply to government for relief as the people of England. Thus his whole argument arose out of his own practice. In the present period of distress he had granted relief, by guaranteeing the Bank [The earl of Liverpool, "No."] Well, then, if the noble earl had not guaranteed, he had induced the Bank to make advances; and upon that the essence of his argument was founded. The people of Scotland must, of course, come to the Bank of England for gold. If the bankers in Scotland possessed Bank of England notes, they had only the same fight to call for payment as the bankers of France had; and that was all that they wanted. As to the banks of Scotland leaning on the Bank of England, there was no such leaning, and no occasion for it; but they must come to the Bank of England for gold as long as the noble lord chose to allow that body to possess exclusive privileges.The Earl of Lauderdale
 deprecated partial discussion, and thought their lordships ought to defer their observations until they had the report of the committee.The Duke of Athol
1394 said, that an experiment was about to be made for which he saw no necessity. The people of Scotland had made no complaint, and had suffered nothing from their Banking system. If they had suffered, or had complained, then it might have been proper to Institute an inquiry. There was, on the contrary, a universal sentiment prevailing in Scotland against any alteration. He had not heard what was to be the object of the inquiry, nor any good reason for instituting it. If it was deemed expedient to revert to the state of things that had existed before the Bank Restriction act, would it not be the wisest way to wait until the experiment was first tried in England? But, if an opposite system had prevailed so long, and with such good effect in Scotland, he saw no cause why it should be disturbed. Under the present system the people of Scotland had prospered. He did not say that the whole of that prosperity had been caused by the banking system, but it had been cotemporaneous with it. If their lordships looked back for a century, they would find Scotland in a state of barbarism and disorder, and they would find at present, to use a strong phrase of a noble lord near him, that the people of Scotland were the best-conditioned people in Europe. He did not suppose this had been produced by their having one-pound notes; but the people were contented with them, and without some good reason he did not think it necessary to make any alteration. The experiment about to be tried for
1394The Earl of Aberdeen
 approved of the measure, and thanked ministers for getting rid of the small notes. No idea could be formed of the misery of the people of Ireland when the country banks failed in the years 1819 and 1820. In those years nine Irish country banks broke; and one in Dublin. It was of great importance to prevent those country banks from springing up again. There were now established in Ireland new banks, consisting of numerous wealthy individuals, which he hoped would be found to work well. For his own part, he felt an extreme horror of one-pound notes; and thought it must cause distressing sensations in every feeling mind, to reflect on the great sacrifice of human life which these notes had occasioned.Lord Clifden
 after adverting to the voluminous evidence of the committee of 1815, complained that the Incorporated Society had not attended to the recommendations in the report on that occasion. It appeared that the usher of Stradbally school who had been dismissed at the instance of Mr. Leslie Foster, one of the commissioners, had since been promoted to a more lucrative situation. In the memorial which the usher had sent to the Board in Dublin he spoke of the gentleman by whom he had been dismissed, in very disrespectful terms, describing him as "a Mr. Leslie Foster." The members of the board, however, seemed resolved to encourage him, their object being to decry every one who wished to correct abuses. The cause of the usher's dismissal was cruelty to the children. But how had the board acted? They advanced him to a more lucrative situation, instead of marking their sense of his conduct in the way that it deserved.Lord King,
35 admitted, that the conduct of the individual in question had been very censurable. Three indictments for cruelty had been preferred against him, and he was tried the other day before the lord chief baron in the town of Maryborough. The jury was composed partly of Catholics and partly of Protestants, and they acquitted him on the first and second indictment without leaving the box, and the third was consequently abandoned. He did not know that in point of form he could move for the judge's notes of the trial, but if that were allowed, he should wish to do so. The
35The Bishop of Ferns
 thought it much better that the right rev. prelate should give notice of a regular discussion on this subject than indulge in desultory observations with regard to it. It was said that there were twenty boys who had heard references made to St. Paul, but in his opinion there were very few who had heard one word about Job. He could see no advantage whatever that was likely to result from this sort of superficial knowledge.Lord King
36 said, he had B motion connected with this subject to submit to their lordships, which would have the effect of bringing one part of the information required before them. He wished to see a return laid on their lordships' table of the number of scholars in all the charter schools of Ireland, distinguishing the different religious persuasions. He agreed with the noble lord, that this question ought not to be discussed without a regular notice, and he should therefore abstain from making any remarks. He must, however, express his hope, that some satisfactory explanation could be given of what had been stated in parliament of the past proceedings in the chartered schools; and which showed the existence of a degree of cruelty and mismanagement quite extraordinary and, when it was recollected under what system of inspection those schools had been placed by parliament, quite unexpected. He thought an inquiry was necessary, and he hoped it would be an effectual inquiry. Something was necessary for the satisfaction of the individuals themselves,
36The Marquis of Lansdown
38fcf.cf.s37 said, he had to present to their lordships a petition against the Corn-laws from one of the largest parishes in the metropolis. The petitioners stated, that they had confidence in the good intentions of his majesty's government. He also had confidence in ministers, and he was glad to see that they were likely to receive real support from without; for otherwise they might expect little from within parliament. He sincerely trusted they would not be deterred from proceeding in their course, and that the public would not slacken their efforts; for, unless ministers were supported by petitions, it would be impossible for them to carry their good intentions into effect. In consequence of the part he had taken on this question, a great deal of advice had been offered to him by different persons. Some had requested him to desist, hinting that his speeches were like sermons in Lent, and repeated as often. Others were of opinion that he had a vicious propensity to make corn cheap; and as they thought that a vicious propensity in him, he must suppose that they considered a disposition to make corn dear a virtuous propensity. A third party complained that he treated these worthy Corn-laws like a miscreant at the bar of the Old Bailey, giving them all kinds of bad names. He was blamed for stigmatizing them with more aliases than ever was given to a thief on his trial: for he had called them the Corn-laws, alias the bread-tax, alias the dead-weight, alias the landlords' tax, and, worst of all, alias the job of jobs. Now, as so much kindness had been shown to him in the way of advice, he wished to give the House some good advice in return. In the first place, he would beg of noble lords to reflect what the situation of the country would be if the price of corn were to rise considerably? That such an event might happen
38fcf.cf.s37Lord King
39 thought, that the discussion of the subject had better be postponed to the next session. He did not think it was for the interest of the landlords to maintain the present Corn-laws, but that importation, under a moderate duty, would be more to their advantage. He did not conceive that those laws had been proposed from any interested motive* On the contrary, he believed that they were submitted to parliament under the honest conviction that they were not only good for the landed interest, but for the public at large. There certainly would be great evil in allowing the question to remain long in its present state. If any delusion existed on the subject, the best way to remove it would be to submit the question to the investigation of a com-
39Lord Calthorpe
 thought, that the first noble lord's obvervations, though very inflammatory, carried with them their own cure. He was struck with the singular coincidence between the noble lord's speech, and the name of the place whence the petition came. It was the petition of the parish of St. Luke, and much of what had fallen from the noble lord appeared to be strongly impregnated with the quality which was generally supposed to abound in that parish. The noble lord had been very free with his advice; but he was satisfied that both his majesty's ministers and the House had too much sense to take it.The Earl of Limerick
41 rose to call their lordships' attention, and particularly the attention of the noble earl opposite, to a topic which had been mentioned on a former occasion. He alluded to the practice of many bankers issuing promissory notes of making them payable at some place distant from where they were issued. This was a practice which could not be defended. He knew that by the bill which had lately received their lordships' sanction, bankers would at the end of three years be obliged to make their notes payable at the place where they were issued; but he thought this evil ought not to be allowed to continue so long. When the practice had been mentioned on a former occasion, the noble earl opposite had doubted whether it was so extensive as was stated. Now, he had heard of fifty-five banks which issued promissory notes that were not payable out of London. He had heard, indeed, that one bank, as far off as Aberdeen, made its notes payable in London. The branch banks of the Bank of Ireland issued the notes of that Bank payable only in Dublin, and circulated them all over the south of Ireland; at present those notes were at a discount, and in the large towns of the south, such as Cork, could not be disposed of without the loss of 4d. This he knew was the case within the last fortnight. Great mischief must result from this practice, and the legislature ought not to allow its existence. He was at a
41The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he should be very ready to give the noble marquis any assistance in his power in obtaining the information he wished, but he did not know how it could be accomplished. It was desirous on many accounts to correct the evil he had pointed out; but, as the law stood, he did not see how it could be immediately corrected. A clause had been added to the bill, which had lately received their lordships' assent, and which would in a day or two receive the royal assent, by a noble friend of his, compelling all banks, at the period when that act came into operation, to pay their notes at the places where they were issued. But it was not supposed possible, with any regard to what he might call vested rights, to make that clause immediately operative. If the notes were now to be stamped, he should say, certainly, that none should be issued to bankers who did not come under that obligation; but the notes were already stamped, and most of those which were to circulate for the next three years were most probably already in circulation. It had, therefore, been thought, that the clause could not be brought into operation before the period assigned for the act to take effect. Agreeing in principle with the noble marquis, he thought their lordships might, in any bill which was brought in to regulate the issues of notes either in Scotland or Ireland, make such a clause a part of the bill, and it might be brought immediately into operation. Even if they were not to legislate in other respects for Scotland and Ireland, they might legislate in this.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he was sensible that there was a difficulty in the way of any proposition on the subject with respect to England; but as to Ireland and Scotland he saw none. As much evil might arise in those countries from the circulation of small notes not payable at the place where they were issued, he would, after the Easter recess, call their lordships' attention to the subject. This he considered indispensable, whatever might be the nature of any measure which might emanate from the committee.The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that in the last session but one, a case had been brought before their lordships by writ of error, in which a promissory note or bill of exchange had been made payable in London. A question had arisen, whether it was sufficient that a demand for payment of that note had been made in the country, or whether it must be made in London? On this subject the judges were divided; several of them thought it was not necessary that the demand should be made in London; but the majority, and their lordships were of the same opinion, thought that it was necessary to make the demand in London, and that the declaration should contain an averment that it had been made. But since that period, an act had been passed, making promissory notes payable in London, demandable elsewhere, unless it was expressly stated on the note that it was payable only in London. If this were the case, country bank notes fell under this law; and if not made payable only in London, payment of them might be demanded at the place where they were issued. He would examine the law on the subject, to see if the opinion he had thrown out was correct, and would report the result to their lordships.The Lord Chancellor
 as an Irishman, was thankful to the noble marquis for having brought this subject before their lordships. The notes of the Dublin Bank were payable only in Dublin.The Earl of Limerick,
ssssss40s approved of the determination of his majesty's ministers to postpone the discussion of the corn question to the next session. The consideration of the currency occupied parliament to such a degree as would render it very inconvenient to enter upon a revision of the Corn-laws. He hoped, however, that the subject would be brought forward early next session, and that importation on a moderate duty would be allowed. He understood that the gentlemen who had been sent abroad to make inquiries, were of opinion that no such quantity of foreign corn could be introduced as would hurt the agricultural interest. Some gentlemen said that the agricultural interest would be ruined by importations. He did not believe this. The ports had been opened for barley, and since that period, barley had been at 52ssssss40sLord Clifden
 rose to introduce the bill of which he had given notice before the adjournment. The object of it was to make all notes payable at places different from that in which they were issued, also payable where issued. It was not his wish at that time to trouble their lordships by calling their attention to the provisions of the bill until after it should be printed.The Marquis of Lansdown
132 asked whether
132The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he certainly intended that Scotland should be included in the operation of the bill.The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he should then have occasion to state to their lordships very material reasons why it should not be so extended. He begged the noble marquis to recollect, that at that moment there was a committee sitting to inquire into the banking system of Scotland. Now, if that was the case, he thought it would be more becoming to defer proceeding with this bill until after that committee had made its report.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that the object of the committee was, to inquire into the effect of the circulation of small notes in Scotland and Ireland; but, whatever might be the result of that inquiry, whether the report should be in favour of, or against the continuance of small notes in Scotland it would in no degree affect his view of the subject. If the result should be the discontinuance of small notes, then the present bill would have no effect as to them. If it should be thought advisable to continue them, then the bill would be necessary.The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he was prepared to submit to the committee, that if the measure proposed by the noble marquis were adopted, it would destroy thirty or forty establishments in Scotland. He spoke in the hearing of those who knew that banking could not be carried on in Scotland if the branch banks were to be suppressed, as they must be if this bill should pass. He thought that the noble marquis ought to delay the second reading, until the evidence to which he had alluded was before the House.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he saw no impropriety in the course he proposed to pursue. Whether one and two pound notes were to be suffered in Scotland or not, he was of opinion that they should be payable where they were issued. The noble earl might, if their lordships should assent to the principle of the bill, propose in the committee to leave Scotland out of its operation.The Marquis of Lansdown
152151 rose to bring under the consideration of their lordships, the subject of which he had last night given notice. Although, the noble earl said, the late lamentable occurrence on the coast of Kent, attended with the loss of a valuable life, had been the immediate cause of his calling their lordships' attention to the subject, this was not the only circumstance which had influenced him, nor was that the first time he had felt an interest in the matter. It was not so much the particular transaction he complained of, as the system. He could not believe, indeed, that such an order as the one issued by the officer, that whenever three persons were assembled together, and did not answer or did not disperse, they were to be immediately fired at (although that order had been laid before the coroner's
152151The Earl of Darnley
154153 said, that the noble earl was entirely misinformed. No such command or order had been given as that which he had mentioned, justifying the men to use violence of any kind, on any of his majesty's subjects, that could lead to a breach of the peace, or an interruption of lawful avocations. No such order had been given; on the contrary, orders had been repeatedly given, that they should, on no occasion, use any kind of violence, or even resistance, unless they were first attacked. It could not be expected, that men with arms in their hands should not defend themselves when attacked. They were intitled, like other men, under similar circumstances, to use their arms. On the night of the late accident, armed bands of smugglers had been seen collecting in sundry places on the coast, near Hythe, where the accident had occurred. Notices of this had been given, and the men ordered to be particularly on the alert. The individual mentioned had been alarmed, and took on himself to do that for which he was responsible to the law of the land; which was, in fact, in direct
154153Lord Melville
155 said, it was not so much from his official situation, as from his residing for a portion of the year in the neighbourhood of the coast, and witnessing the effects of the system, that he wished to say a few words on the subject. It was now twelve years since the preventive service had been established; and the circumstance brought under their lordships' notice was, he believed, the first accident which had happened. That had not been the consequence of any orders given, as had been mentioned by his noble friend; but was the act of an individual, and was, in fact, contrary to the general orders. One accident could be no argument against a system. Accidents occurred in every department of business; and even in those amusements to which some of their lordships devoted a part of every year. Their lordships must adopt one of three systems—they must employ a naval force, a military force, or they must lower the duties. As far as the two species of force were concerned, he should have thought that noble lords who in general displayed such a constitutional jealousy of the military, would have preferred the employment of seamen. As to
155The Earl of Liverpool
206205l.204203 said, he rose to present a petition of considerable importance. It was the petition of the Board and Council and House of Assembly of the island of Antigua; but it
206205l.204203Lord Dudley and Ward
 wished the petition to be received as the petition of the body of the House of Assembly; but doubted whether that could be done, as it was only signed by the Speaker.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought it would answer every purpose for which the petition was intended, if it was received merely as the petition of the Speaker.Lord Dudley and Ward
 was desirous, that the question should not be decided, until it was known what had been done in similar cases. He did not see how it was possible to avoid receiving petitions, in some way or other, from the colonial assemblies. If the right of parliament to legislate for the colonies was maintained, there must be some means of receiving petitions from them. He therefore thought that inquiry should be made. Some precedent, perhaps, would be found of petitions of the same kind from the American colonies.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that if inquiry was to take place in order to do justice to one party, he hoped that justice would be done to others. Petitions which were presented from the moderators of the general Assembly of the church of Scotland for the whole of that body, and from the moderators of synods, legally signed according to the law of Scotland, were still only received as the petitions of the persons who signed them.The Earl of Lauderdale
 corroborated what the noble earl had just stated.Lord Melville
 vindicated the abolitionists from the charges made against them. They did not call for rash and precipitate measures, but were desirous that caution and deliberation should accompany every step taken for the emancipation of the slaves. They were also sensible of the blame which attached to themselves in having suffered the evil of slavery so long to exist. He could not help agreeing with those who considered that the colonial legislatures had acted very improperly; but he should certainly rejoice to see the imputations against them disproved.Lord Calthorpe
207 remarked, that very bitter censures had been pronounced on the colonial assemblies at the meetings in support of negro-emancipation. As to
207Lord Dudley and Ward
 observed, that what he said on the occasion alluded to, was, that it would be desirable that some visible approach to the emancipation of the negroes should be made during the life-time of the illustrious individual whose name was so intimately identified with that question. It was merely observed, that if that individual lived to see such an approach to abolition as would give more certainty as to the period of the accomplishment of that object, it would afford him great satisfaction and consolation.Lord Calthorpe
 was surprised that the noble lord, holding the opinions he did, had suffered the session to pass away without bringing forward any motion for the discussion of the general question. This would be a fairer course of proceeding than attempting day by day to stir up and irritate the feelings of the manufacturing population. If the noble lord brought the question fairly forward, it would soon be proved that the welfare of the manufacturing classes depended upon the prosperity of the landed interest; but the noble lord chose rather to let the session elapse, than to bring the question to a direct issue.The Marquis of Salisbury
 said, he was quite willing to bring the whole question forward, if any effect could be produced by so doing. It was generally understood that the only alteration of the corn-laws that could be carried was a protecting duty. Now, a bill for imposing a duty of any kind could not originate with their lordships. If the forms of the House permitted it, he would bring in a bill to-morrow.Lord King
s.209l. observed, that it had already been often pointed out to the noble lord, that a more manly course for him to follow would be, to bring the question of the corn-laws regularly before the House; but, instead of doing so, he preferred letting off every now and then a few little squibs. If the noble lord knew any thing of the history of the corn-laws, he could not stand up in that House and assert, that the object of those who wished to maintain those laws was to give dear bread to the poor. In the reign of Charles 2nd the protection against foreign corn amounted to 8s.209l.The Earl of Lauderdale
l.210 was not surprised that the noble earl should object to the course he pursued. The noble earl blamed him for using squibs, and asked why he did not bring the question regularly forward. Now, this was easily accounted for. Every one had his own particular mode
l.210Lord King
 was not much disposed to the present sort of warfare, but could not help congratulating the House on the explanation which had just been obtained from the noble lord. It now appeared that the noble lord did not look forward to a free trade in corn, but that he was for a protecting duty. That was the reason he had assigned for not bringing the subject regularly forward. He always thought that the noble lord's doctrine was, that the poor man should have cheap corn, come from where it might —from Germany or Japan. He could not before understand why the noble lord came forward with speeches every day, but now the matter was clearly explained.The Earl of Malmesbury
214213212211 rose, for the purpose of moving the second reading of a bill, the object of which was, to make bank notes payable where they were issued. He thought it would not be necessary for him to detain their lordships long in recommending or detailing a
214213212211The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he had no objection to the bill, if it was meant to operate prospectively; but he Celt, that if it was to relate to the paper now in circulation, great difficulty, and indeed much injustice, might arise from the manner in which it was at present worded. As it at present stood, its effect would be, to oblige bankers to call in their notes and to re-issue them with new stamps. And here he ought to observe, that there would be some difficulty in defining what was meant by the word "issue." He would illustrate what he meant, by a reference to the bank of Ireland. Then issues were very large, and a considerable part of the circulating medium of Ireland consisted of their notes, which were made payable in Dublin. Now, if these notes could not be taken in Belfast or Cork, al the notes which were at those places would be thrown back into the brand banks, from whence they had been issued and these banks would be compelled to make an entirely new issue of notes, payable in cash, at each of these cities. The object of the bill was one which he had no doubt, all their lordships wished to support, but its provisions were no framed exactly as they should be; and when it came into the committee, some better means of attaining that object, hi thought might be discovered.The Earl of Farnham
215 observed, that a the bill now stood, it would nearly pu
215The Earl of Rosslyn
216l. said, that though rather late in the day, he should now give notice of what he intended to move in the committee, instead of discussing the bill at the present moment. The noble marquis had supposed that Scotchmen would be unanimous in whatever they said on this measure. He believed that supposition would not be found to be quite correct; at least with respect to the question of what was fit to be done with regard to Scotland. But there certainly could be no division of opinion among them on a question of flagrant injustice. It was proposed to alter the Scotch system of banking, and to prohibit the circulation of all notes under 5216l.Lord Melville
217l. said, that, after what had fallen from his noble friend, he had no further objection to urge to this bill. Still, however, he must declare that he thought the title one of the most defective that could have been chosen. It appeared to him to have no meaning whatever; and, as to the bill itself, he believed that, if it was brought into a court of law, it would be found to be of but little effect. He had no difficulty in saying, that if Ireland had not been a part of the United Kingdom, this bill would have had no existence. Its object was, to make all notes payable where they were issued. Now, an issue to an agent, or to a partner, was, in law, such an issue as to come within the words of this act; and as all the notes of the bank of Ireland were, in that sense of the word, issued in Dublin, they must always be payable there, and this act would, therefore, produce no difference in the matter. He thought he could make the act more effective in this respect; but then he wished to know whether, to gain such an object, their lordships were prepared to run their heads against a greater evil? The Dublin bank had branch banks at Sligo and Belfast. Now, suppose he had business at Sligo, and received from the bank there, notes issued from the Belfast bank for a sum of 5,000217l.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that at the first blush of the question he had thought this bill was a very proper measure; but, on further consideration, he felt some objections to it. He was inclined to adopt the same course which had been taken by the noble lord, who had recommended examination and inquiry. Noble lords from his own part of the United Kingdom were not generally so united as those who owned Scotland for their birthplace. He should therefore feel inclined to enlist under their banners, and take refuge behind the sanitary cordon which the latter had attempted to establish. He thought the present measure ought not to be precipitated. Examination ought to be afforded, and that examination ought to be instituted with respect to Ireland as well as Scotland.The Earl of Limerick
218 observed, that this bill was introduced to prevent disreputable practices, but it unfortunately extended to Scotland, and consequently it had the whole body of Scotch lords on their legs to oppose it. It put him in mind of a passage in Mr. Burke's celebrated speech on economical reform, in which he stated that lord Talbot had attempted to reform the king's household, but that the measure was defeated, because the king's scullion was a member of parliament. So, here, he found that all attempts at putting an end to the disreputable practice would be frustrated, because some
218Lord King
 hoped the noble marquis would persevere in his motion. He saw nothing to prevent the House from going on, even whilst an inquiry was taking place.The Earl of Caledon
 thought the object contemplated by this bill a most desirable one, and he would, therefore, vote for its second reading; but then a great many difficulties presented themselves, and the House must take care that, in trying to remove one evil, they did not fall upon another. He would, therefore, suggest to the noble marquis the expediency of allowing a longer period to elapse than usual, before the bill was committed. He was in expectation of receiving important information on this subject next week; and the discussion, which the bill relating to provincial banks was undergoing in the other House, might also throw additional light on this subject. Under these circumstances he would vote for the second reading to-day, and suggest that the motion for referring it to a committee be fixed for Tuesday week.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, in explanation, that he intended the bill to have a prospective effect, and he though the period from which it should come into operation, should be the 10th of October. With regard to the technical objection raised by a noble earl, he could state, that he had taken the advice of lawyers, who assured him that it was fully adequate to effect the object for which it was intended. He would avail himself of the suggestion of the noble earl opposite, and fix the committee for Tuesday se'nnight.The Marquis of Lansdown
 thought that, as the measure had for its object the restriction of paper issues, it ought to be adopted. He had seen the bad effects of the present system in Ireland; and, if bank notes-there were to be payable only in Dublin, the same evils might occur again. It was not men of fortune, but the lower orders who would be the sufferers. He believed, however, that, owing to the misery lately endured, the inhabitants at large would only have gold; and if so the evil would thus effect its own cure.Lord Clifden
246245 in rising to present to their lordships the petition of the Catholics of Ireland, said, that, although the petition he was about to ask permission to lay on their table was one relating to a subject on which petitions had been presented on many former occasions, yet it was one which their lordships would feel, from its magnitude and importance, that he could not lay on their table, without wishing to say a few words, though he had no wish to involve in controversial discussion a subject which hereafter must be again brought under their lordships' notice. The petition had been placed in his hands in consequence of an event which he, in common with their lordships, must deeply deplore. He alluded to the loss of that distinguished individual, to whose hands it had generally been intrusted; whose whole political life, from its commencement to its close, had, from particular circumstances, been closely connected with this subject; and who continued, to the last, its able, uncompromising, and disinterested advocate. Their lordships would feel that, though the ground had closed over him, as it had
246245The Marquis of Lansdown,
 was astonished that the noble earl should admit the principles on which he proposed to act, and yet decline to carry any portion of them into execution.Lord Suffield
263 said, he would have been better pleased if the noble earl had given a direct negative to this motion. He thought there was no reason whatever for passing this resolution; but that, on the contrary, it would be productive of the most mischievous effects. He was convinced that, if any thing was done, it must be by the silent operation of the expressed opinion of this government, and by the example which they set in the treatment of the slaves in the colonies more immediately under their control. He thought this resolution would destroy the operation of that opinion. As to our legislating for the colonies, of this he was convinced, that ministers dare not submit such a proposition—that parliament would not adopt it; and if it did adopt it, that the people would not second it—nor could it, if it were carried, be executed without danger to the colonies, and without incurring the risk of sacrificing the slaves themselves. He thought that in this matter there could be nothing better than the example of good treatment to the slaves by those immediately under the control of the government. He re-
263Lord Ellenborough
 supported the motion. While public functionaries in the colonies were, he said, permitted to be the owners of slaves, or to have a reversionary interest in that species of property, it must necessarily produce a conflict of duties, and operate injuriously to the slave population.Lord Calthorpe
264 deprecated the sort of imputation which had been thrown out against himself, of having on former occasions expressed himself with some degree of satirical warmth of those who were most earnest in their applications for the immediate abolition of negro slavery. He begged to assure the noble mover, that no man was more disinclined than himself to indulge in the language of sarcasm upon any measures submitted for the consideration of their lordships. On the present occasion, however, he must be allowed to declare that he could not, by any means, concur in the inferences which the noble lord opposite appeared disposed to draw from the long string of cases which had been quoted by him. Many of those cases were already well known, and had been much discussed and commented upon; especially in a very able pamphlet, which had been recently put forth by a society, of which the noble lord was himself a member. Still he felt himself much obliged to the noble lord for the moderation displayed in his speech; seeing that he had not gone quite so far as some others; for, while it was suggested, in the publication which he had just adverted to, that the planters and proprietors of slaves in our West-India islands should not be eligible to the magistracy, and other offices in the colonies, another writer had gone the length of proposing, that the legislature should declare those who were guilty of the crime of possessing plantations in the West Indies, cultivated
264Viscount Dudley and Ward
 as being better acquainted with the present condition of affairs in Jamaica than in any other of the islands, thought the present a favourable opportunity for saying a few words on the subject of the payment of ecclesiastical functionaries in that island. He had great pleasure in stating, that from the moment of the arrival of the bishop of Jamaica on his diocese, there was a general manifestation, among all ranks of the community, of a solicitude to put the whole of the clerical appointments upon the best and most liberal footing. The salaries of the rectors were voluntarily raised, and the stipends of the curates increased in proportion; while the vestries of the parishes were relieved from some obligations relative to certificates, which had formerly been found of much inconvenience. In short, every thing had been done which was best calculated to further the important objects of the bishop's appointment. The noble mover seemed to labour under some misapprehension with respect to an act, which he understood the noble lord to speak of, as having been passed; namely, a compulsory measure upon the owners of West-Indian estates to enfranchise any of their slaves who might offer their estimated value as the price of their enfranchisement. He was not aware of the existence of any such act; but this he knew, that, so far as he was interested in slave property, he should always be very happy, under such circumstances, to give the slave his enfranchisement, the very next moment after he had presented himself to ask for it. But, in the mean time, he thought it would be exceeding impolitic to pass any compulsory enactments upon this subject; because, the first suggestions of compulsion must put an end to all voluntary acts of this nature on the part of those with whom it lay to perform them. For these reasons he should give his vote against the motion of the noble lord.Lord St. Vincent,
261260259258257256255254253252251250249 after expressing his sense of disadvantage in following the two noble lords who had just sat down, and who had rendered an interesting subject near home doubly interesting by their powers of eloquence, said, he felt it was now his duty to direct their lordships' attention to grievances, not, perhaps, of a less interesting nature, in a more remote region. Since he had first declared his hope that the motion which he was about to submit would meet with their lordships' unanimous approbation, nothing had occurred to diminish his confidence. It was an abstract proposition, unconnected with any matter upon which difference of opinion
261260259258257256255254253252251250249Lord Suffield,
248247 said, he had to call their lordships' attention to a petition from the same body as that with which the first petition presented by his noble friend originated, and which could not have been intrusted to the care of a more zealous and able advocate. His noble friend had that day shown that his zeal for the cause which he espoused was tempered by the soundest discretion, in refraining from doing any thing more than to make the usual motion for laying the petition on the table. It was his intention to follow the same course as that which had been adopted by his noble friend—namely, to
248247Earl Grey
262 said, that the noble lord who had proposed this address, had accurately described the difficulty which government had met with in endeavouring to carry into effect the wishes of parliament. He was of opinion, that the amelioration in the condition of the slaves should be effected rather by the act of the colonial legislature, than by the interference of this government; but he did not see how that could bear on the present question; at least, how it could bear favourably to the noble lord, since surely he would not endeavour to exclude slave-owners from the colonial legislature. The noble lord had mentioned the several cases which had been decided in favour of the masters instead of the slaves. Surely the noble lord should have made some allowance on account of the difficulties of the situation of the fiscal. In the colony of Demerara, the fiscal had encountered the greatest difficulties, on account of the opinions of the slaves; and before he could make any impression on them, he was compelled to undeceive them as to what was intended by this country; for they actually imagined that the parliament had resolved to set them free. It appeared from the noble lord's statement, that the commissioners employed by government were possessed of some property in slaves. Now, all that he could say was, that when he concurred in the appointment of that gentleman, he was not aware of the circumstance, or he certainly should not have thought a slave-owner the most proper person to appoint to such an office. He owned he was rather surprised at the charge of inconsistency made against that gentleman;
262Earl Bathurst
294 rose to present a petition from the merchants, manufacturers, and other inhabitants of Birmingham, praying for an amendment of the Corn Laws. In proposing to lay before their lordships a petition on this important subject from so numerous and respectable a body, he could not forbear from again expressing his surprise and concern that his majesty's ministers should persist in their resolution to take no steps in this question during the present session. With regard to the Corn laws, some persons seemed to look upon them as part of the constitution; as existing by a sort of irresistible necessity; and as something far too sacred to be touched. He, however, was of a different opinion, and conceived it to be the duty of parliament to take them as speedily as possible into its most serious consideration. He regretted much the disposition to procrastination which ministers had manifested on this subject, and he must say, that it was not humane in them to leave the question of the Corn laws in the state in which it now stood; as the consequence of so leaving it was, that it arrayed two great classes of his majesty's subjects in hostility against
294Lord Callhorpe
297296295 was sure their
297296295The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he had been induced to appeal to the noble lord on the danger which he thought must result from leaving the corn question in its present state; and on that point his opinion remained unaltered. The noble lord had told him that he might exercise his discretion in bringing the subject forward, but he well knew that no peer could expect a successful result to any attempt of that kind, unless he made it under the auspices of the cabinet.Lord Calthorpe
 observed, that great distress was experienced by the manufacturers, and that the approach of that distress must have been foreseen for some time. Yet, if any one asked what had been done, he would find that not the slightest step had been taken towards their relief. Last year a very limited bill, for a limited object, and a limited time, had been brought in. It would have been well if the noble earl had brought forward this limited bill again, and had given to its operation a more extended period; as that would induce the growers of corn in Canada to take measures to ensure a future supply. But, then, the noble earl ought to have done that at an earlier period of the session, before the arrival of a noble lord (Malmesbury) from the country. It had once been said, that there was a power behind the throne greater than the throne itself. In the same manner it might be said, that there was now a power in that House greater than the minister—"Multa gemens ignominiam plagasque superbi victoris—" of the conquering hero who won the field of the Canada corn bill. So great had been the exultation of the landlords in consequence of this victory, that he understood they were about to institute a club which would quite out-do the Pitt club. It would be called the Malmesbury club; and it was intended to commemorate the great event by anniversary dinners far more splendid than those of the rival association.Lord King
298 admitted, that the present was not a proper time, for
298The Earl of Malmesbury
385 rose to ask a question of great importance, to which he hoped the noble earl opposite would favour him with a reply. The information which he wished to obtain related to the war between the Greeks and Turks. A letter had been published in the newspapers respecting the result of the siege of Missolonghi, from which it appeared that that place had fallen. The heroic defence made by that place must be looked at with admiration by every one. It had sustained no less than seventy-three attacks in the course of eighteen months, and greater gallantry had never been displayed. The defenders of Missolonghi had shown themselves worthy descendants of the heroes of Thermopylae. He wished to know whether ministers
385Earl Grosvenor
 said, he could not give any other answer to the noble earl as to the report of Missolonghi being taken, than that he believed it was not taken at the date of the letter to which the noble earl had alluded. Whether the place was taken or not he could not say; but as it was not taken at the date of the letter, the fact contained in it could not be true. With respect to the other question put by the noble earl, as to whether the Greek cause was now desperate or not, he should only say, that the contest being one with respect to which this country was perfectly neutral, he did not consider it a subject for discussion in that House. The policy of his majesty's government had been that of strict neutrality, and that policy, whether right or wrong, was before the House and the country.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he regarded it as most fortunate for the country, that the language which had from first to last been held on this question in parliament, had always been recommendatory of a gradual abolition, to be brought about by precautionary and prudent measures. He must, however, beg leave to doubt, whether the same opinion pervaded the whole body of the abolitionists; for he believed, if the noble lord would examine the greater number of the petitions which had been presented to the House on this subject, he would find that they contained an express prayer for the immediate emancipation of the negroes.The Lord Chancellor
396 said, he could not agree with the noble and learned lord, that the greater part of the petitions relative to negro slavery prayed for immediate emancipation. Every petition which he had been called upon to present, was of a different description; for he had not failed to look at each, with reference to that particular point, before he presented it; and, if in any one petition he had found a prayer for an object so pregnant with mischief to the negro-population, as well as to the planters, he should certainly have expressed his dissent from it. He was now about to present a petition which, like others which he had before submitted to their lordships, contained a declaration, that the petitioners approved of the resolutions adopted by the House of Commons in 1823, and wished to see the principle of those resolutions carried into effect: and to that extent he fully concurred with the
396The Marquis of Lansdown
395394 said, he was sure that the petition which had just been presented would be received by the House with that respect to which, from the subject and the manner in which it was drawn up, it was entitled; but he wished to take that opportunity of saying a few words, in consequence of some observations which had fallen from his noble and learned friend. He could assure his noble and learned friend, that if there existed an intention in any party in this country to precipitate the emancipation of the negroes, without due preparation, no man could be more opposed to such intention than himself. He had always felt, that that was a measure which ought to be approached with caution and deliberation. The great interests and property at stake demanded this caution, and it was also to be considered, that the government and parliament of this country had been parties to the evils of slavery, in consequence of the direct encouragement which had, for a hundred and fifty years, been given to the state of things existing in the West Indies. Having said thus much, he must express his deep regret that the colonial legislatures should have proceeded in the course which they had hitherto thought fit to pursue. That in some of the colonies, from special circumstances, the measures recommended by the government might appear inapplicable was possible; but that could not afford an excuse for the conduct of the assemblies in refusing to legislate. It had been thought proper to mark out the course which appeared proper to be followed to accomplish the object which government and parliament had in view, and to hold up an example to the colonial legislatures. For this purpose instructions were sent out to the colonies under the immediate control of government. The
395394The Earl of Liverpool
 vindicated the abolitionists from the charges which had been thrown out against them. At none of the meetings which he had attended had any thing like precipitation in giving liberty to the slave been suggested. On the contrary, the greatest caution had been always recommended. As to the object of the petition, he must observe, that West-India property had always been distressed, and would continue so to be, until compulsory labour was done away with, and free labour introduced.Lord Suffield
 admitted the advantages of free labour, but the difficulty was how to introduce it.Lord Redesdale
386 presented a petition from certain merchants and others of the city of London, who hold mortgages, or have made advances on West-India property. In presenting this petition, the noble and learned lord dwelt at length on the distress to which persons interested in West-India property had been reduced. At present, no person would advance a shilling on West-India estates. But, amidst their distress, the unfortunate proprietors were obliged to go on, or the slaves would starve. Thus, there was no hope for them, since they could not get rid of their property; and if they continue to cultivate, it was at a loss. Married women, whose settlements depended on plantations, and orphan children, were left entirely destitute. Persons who held mortgages, if they applied to the proprietors of plantations, could ob-
386Lord Redesdale
533 rose to present a petition to their lordships from the Catholic Association,
533Lord King
 said, that in the city of Limerick there was a Catholic gentleman a magistrate.The Earl of Limerick
 said, that by the new rules in all the large corporate towns no Catholic could be either a mayor, a sheriff, or common-council-man.Lord King
534 said, that the individual in question, a Mr. Roche, had been made a magistrate of Limerick by the government, under authority of a special
534The Earl of Limerick
 said, that Catholics were excluded from the corporation of Dublin. He reminded their lordships that he had predicted that they could never put down the Catholic Association. That Association spoke the sentiments of one fifth of the population, having a common object; and they were no more to be put down, except by removing from the Statute-book the last remnant of those laws which were a disgrace to it, than the sun was to be stopped in its course. He reminded their lordships of what had passed in Ireland in 1782, and predicted, that if they went on, year after year, denying the Catholic claims, a time of difficulty would come, when those Catholics would extort from fear what was denied to justice.Lord Clifden
559 said, that, as far as he understood the principle of this bill, he entirely concurred with it. That banks should pay at the places where their notes were issued, and that this should be done, not only by the chief banks, but by all the principal branch banks, was a proposition to which he perfectly agreed, both on the ground of principle and expediency. But, he confessed that he found many objections made to the application of this principle at present; and he also perceived many difficulties in the way of carrying it into immediate effect. It was, therefore, well worth the consideration of the noble lord who had introduced this measure, and of the House, whether it would be proper to proceed with it at present. A very important branch of the subject to which the present bill related had been referred to the consideration of a committee. He meant the question relative to the currency of Scotland and Ireland. Much evidence had been given before that committee, which it would be important for their lordships to consider when the report should be laid on their table. Now, whether the report might be made or not, there was, he thought, no probability that any legislative measure could be founded upon it this session. For this reason, he was of opinion, that it would be better to postpone the present bill until after the inquiry now going on was completed. When the result was before their lordships, as it would be next session, they would have an opportunity of considering the whole subject. A bill had gone down to the other House. He meant the measure which their lordships had passed, authorizing the establishment of chartered companies in this country. He had anticipated that that bill would have a salutary operation, and that opinion had not been hastily taken up. The effect of the
559The Earl of Liverpool
560 said, he knew not what might be the merits of the bill now in progress through the other House, nor did he know in what form it might come before their lordships; but of this he was convinced, that the measure, if once adopted, must be ruinous to Scotland. Ireland was differently circumstanced from Scotland, with regard to the banking system. There were in Ireland notes of the provincial banks, as well as those of the bank of Ireland, and that too in one and the same town. But it should be observed, that the bank of Ireland had a decided advantage over the provincial banks; for its notes were made payable only in Dublin, whereas, the notes of the provincial banks were convertible into cash at the places where they were issued. In fact, the branches of the provincial banks were made engines for providing gold for the bank of Ireland; and this he looked upon as a very great hardship to the parties concerned. He thought it only fair that a clause should be introduced into the bill, empowering the provincial banks to have their notes payable at head quarters, upon the same principle
560The Earl of Lauderdale
 rejoiced to find that the measure proposed by the noble marquis was not likely to pass into a law this year. He believed that no measure was more pregnant with danger to the prosperity of Ireland than this; and he hoped, if it was introduced next year, that their lordships would not hesitate to put it down. He owed a debt of gratitude to Scotland for the determined opposition which the people of that country evinced on the occasion. The noble marquis had said, on a former occasion, that the Scotch wished to establish a Cordon Sanitaire on the frontier. Now he, for his own part, would willingly assist in the work. The notes of the provincial banks were eight-pence in the pound above those of the bank of Ireland, in consequence of their being convertible into gold at the places where they were issued.The Earl of Limerick
561l. said, he was not now prepared to discuss the question as to whether or not notes under the value of 5561l.The Marquis of Lansdown
 observed, that, before the Bank Restriction act, in 1797, the Scotch circulation was the same as at present, and yet that the Bank notes had not driven away gold from the borders.The Earl of Rosslyn
562 reminded the noble earl that, previous to 1797, the country had not been deluged by paper. The case might be very different now, as after the English counties had been so long accustomed to a paper circulation, the introduction of the Scotch bank-notes would be more easy. He agreed, how-
562The Earl of Liverpool
 confessed that there would be a difficulty in legislating for the intermediate places between Yorkshire and the borders, as the notes being Scotch, it would be in their very nature to travel south [a laugh].The Lord Chancellor
ldsssd presented a petition from the inhabitants of the parish of St. Olave, in the city of London, complaining of the rector, on the subject of Tithes. He had been requested, he said, to present this petition in the early part of the present session, but as he was anxious that an accommodation should take place, he had recommended a postponement till a later period. An opportunity for a reconciliation had thus been afforded, which he was sorry had not been realized. The noble marquis then stated, that the tithes of this parish, which had been in the time of the former rector 6ldsssdThe Marquis of Lansdown
722dsdssldsl thanked the noble marquis for the courteous manner in which his remarks upon the petition had been made. Among the charges brought by the petitioners against the clergy was one, that wherever the parishioners were engaged in a contest with the clergy there was no chance of justice for them. In this charge he was sure their lordships would not feel disposed to agree. The real state of the case between the petitioners and the rector he believed was, that the latter had the legal right to raise the rates upon his parishioners to the amount of about 2,400722dsdssldslThe Bishop of London
ll observed, that the right reverend diocesan had undoubtedly acted in the best manner for the interests of the church in the course he had taken. He could not, however, so easily acquit the rector of St. Olave's, who was otherwise interested in the bargain which he was prepared to make with the parish. The petitioners were now in possession of a letter to prove that the rector was willing to bind himself and successor to take no more than 1,000llThe Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that with reference to the proposal mentioned by the noble marquis, there could be but one course for him to pursue, which was to stigmatize it with his most decided reprobation. When he said that the proposal itself was new to him, he ought to state that he had heard of it as among the many plans in agitation to bring the question to a settlement; but he certainly had not been aware that it had gone to the extent mentioned.The Bishop of London
743 said, he had a petition to present to their lordships which was deserving their most serious consideration, it was a Petition from certain Weavers at Manchester. It deserved their lordships' consideration, from the time at which it was signed, and the circumstances under which it was presented. The petition was distinguished for good sense and moderation; and the petitioners, he was happy to see, strongly disapproved of the improper conduct of some of the workmen in destroying machinery. They stated, that they did not conceive that their deep distress had been caused by machinery. It gave him satisfaction to learn, that the weavers who signed the petition could, at such a time of distress, perceive that their sufferings were not caused by machinery, but by the Corn-laws. They stated two very good reasons why the Corn-laws injured them. First, they stated that the Corn-laws prevented their getting food as cheap as they might otherwise get it; and secondly, that the Corn-laws prevented such other countries from taking our manufactures, as had no other means of paying for them than by corn. Thus their operation was twofold, and they injured the manufacturers doubly. Before he sat down, he must do the noble
743Lord King
746745744 did not rise to offer any observations on the contents of the petition just read. He did not wish to introduce any thing that was matter of controversy; on the contrary, he desired to avoid expressing any opinion on the particular question which was the subject of the petition. But he would, with their lordships' permission, take that opportunity of adverting to some circumstances which must be known to their lordships, connected, he was sorry to say, not only with the distress of which the petitioners complained, but a multitude of other persons, unhappily involved in the same distress. When he observed, from the state of the papers on their lordships' table, that it was in their power, as he understood it was the intention, of putting a speedy termination to the labours of the session, he wished to take that opportunity of urging on their lordships' attention, and on the attention of his majesty's ministers, the expediency of not allowing the session to terminate without making some provision to relieve distress that was so excessive as almost to induce despair. In any suggestion he might be disposed to make to meet that distress, he knew all the difficulties which he should have to encounter: he knew that taking any step to remedy, or even to mitigate such extensive evils, must be opposed by many obstacles; but, when he considered the peculiar circumstances in which those evils originated which now prevailed over so many districts; when he considered the many circumstances which took this situation out of the ordinary range of those occurrences; it was not desirable that parliament should interfere; and he knew well, and the older he grew the better he knew it, that parliament ought not to interfere to relieve those distresses, which would inevitably occur from variations in the seasons, and from changes in the relation of supply and demand; yet these suffer-
746745744The Marquis of Lansdown
748l747 said:—I feel myself called upon, not only by the observations of the noble marquis, but by the importance of the subject to which he referred, to address to your lordships a few words. I do not wonder at the appeal which the noble marquis had made; but I trust he will do me the credit—nay, he has done me the credit—to believe, that I, in common with every individual in this House, feel as he does for the unfortunate state of the manufacturing districts of this country—a state which no man can see, of which no man can hear, without being appalled at the distress that so widely prevails, nor without feeling the deepest regret at the unhappy events which led to it. In attempting, however, to provide a remedy for this distress, various considerations suggest themselves to the mind, with respect to any plan that may be adopted. If parliament were to interfere, on the ground that this distress called for its interference, I beg your lordships to observe, that it would be the first instance with the exception of Ireland, to which will hereafter refer) in which it has interfered, by a vote of the public money, for the relief of any local distress. The very merit of the existing system of the poor-laws—which some consider an evil, and which others consider a good—is, that those who are in distress have the means of obtaining relief, without coming for that relief upon the public purse. If you administer relief in one instance, there is no knowing where it will have an end; and I conjure you to reflect how often cases may arise, in which it will be most difficult to distinguish where you should give assistance, and where you should withhold it. I conjure you to reflect, that some years back, when very great distress prevailed among the agricultural classes, and you were called upon to apply some remedy, after minutely considering the matter, you were obliged to abandon all hopes of giving any effective
748l747The Earl of Liverpool
s749ss said, that he felt it necessary to offer a few words relative to the important observations that had been made by the noble lord at the head of his majesty's government. He had some time since stated, that if ministers conceived it necessary to admit into the market the corn remaining in bond, he would acquiesce in the proposal so to do. But with respect to the important measure of granting a power to admit additional quantities of corn, he hoped he might be allowed time to reflect on a subject of so much moment. He felt for the sufferings of the manufacturing classes, but he lamented deeply that they had been led to suppose that those sufferings arose from the present state of the Corn-laws. In Mr. Jacob's report, which he understood was of the highest authority, it was stated, that the foreign merchant, or corn-grower, including the duty of 10s749ssThe Earl of Malmesbury
 said, that the Report of Mr. Jacob was most important; but, at present, it was only ex parte, and ought not to be calculated on as authority. He was not disposed to enter into this question, but he could not avoid observing, that the bonded corn now in the country was insufficient to do much good. He agreed with the noble earl at the head of the government, that it was inexpedient to recur to any parliamentary measure for affording relief in cases of distress, except under very urgent circumstances, but he conceived those urgent circumstances now to exist.Earl Grosvenor
751750 said, that he felt as acutely as any noble lord the distress of the manufacturers; but he thought it was indispensable, before they began to
751750The Earl of Lauderdale
ss752 said, that the speech of the noble earl who had spoken last, made it necessary for him to say a few words. He agreed entirely in the opinion, that to ascribe the distress to the Corn-laws, was wilfully to blind one's self to the state of the country, and to all the proceedings that had taken place within the last twelve months. He had already said, that he thought some alteration in the Corn-laws ought to take place, but he would repeat now what he had said before, that, if there existed no other objection to the adoption of a permanent system than the present distress, still that of itself would render this an unfit time for such a proceeding. But then the reasoning of the noble marquis was far more cogent than that of the noble earl. The noble marquis argued thus; "Here is the distress, from whatever cause it has proceeded, and now it remains for your lordships to deal with it in the best way you can." If it had not proceeded from want of demand, what else could it have proceeded from? No man in his senses could deny that the great cause was overtrading. How else, if there had not been
ss752The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to know at what duty it was proposed to introduce foreign corn now in bond?The Earl of Malmesbury
s—At 12sThe Earl of Liverpool.
 said, he perfectly accorded with the first part of the proposed measure; but as to the second, namely, the allowing ministers to introduce corn hereafter, if they thought it expedient, at the same rate of duty, he could not at present give his unqualified assent to this proposition, not having considered sufficiently the subject. He thought there might be many objections urged to it, and perhaps it would have a pernicious effect in the corn-market. It would be rather hard, he was inclined to think, on the agriculturists. He presumed that the measure would only be of a temporary nature, and that it would extend no longer than the meeting of the next parliament.The Earl of Malmesbury
762sss761 said, it had been stated, that the noble earl did not attribute the existing distress to the operation of the Coin-laws, or to the present price of corn; but let their lordships look a little to what must be the effect of the conduct of ministers on the country; let them look to the opinions which that conduct must necessarily inculcate on the mind of every man who was suffering distress at that moment. The noble marquis had stated that this was a case of such excessive misery as called for immediate notice, and he proposed a measure for the relief of those who were suffering. But, what was the answer of the noble earl opposite? He said, "We cannot agree to that proposition, because it would form a dangerous precedent;" and he added, "but we
762sss761The Earl of Rosslyn
763 wished to say a few words in explanation. It was not his intention to discuss the general question on this occasion. He must, in the first place, disclaim that he had ever asserted that the price of corn, or the state of the Corn-laws, had caused the present calamity. Not only did he think that they had not created the existing distress, but he believed that they had nothing to do with it. He had not stated, neither had he meant to state, that the measure proposed by him was intended as a measure of relief that ought to supersede that species of assistance to which the noble marquis had alluded. He had stated the objections he felt to the measure of the noble marquis—not as one which under no circumstances should be resorted to, but as one fraught with so much public inconvenience, that nothing but absolute and overbearing necessity could justify its adoption; and he came, in consequence, to this conclusion, that voluntary contribution and voluntary assistance were better than the measure which the noble marquis recommended. As to the question of the Corn-laws, he had stated before and he would state it again, that that question was not the cause of those distresses. They had, however, seen, that the price of corn had been rising for some weeks past; and, without doubt, if it continued to rise, that circumstance would act as a very great aggravation of the present evil. When noble lords argued this question, they ought to take this fact into consideration—that though there were individuals who had no employment at present, there were others who had some work for which they received a small price. Now, no person could say that the amount of wages paid for their bread was not to them a most material consideration. He would, therefore, contend, that the two measures—the one admitting bonded corn into the market, and the other
763The Earl of Liverpool
s observed, that the present average price of wheat was 61s. Now, if the famine price of wheat was not below 80sThe Earl of Limerick
 said, he did not rise to prolong the discussion which had taken place upon this important subject. He merely wished to remark upon the inconsistent course pursued by his majesty's ministers. At the commencement of the session they had given it as their opinion, that that was not the time for altering the Corn-laws, or for entering into consideration upon the subject. Now, however, they were of opinion that the present was a fit moment for altering the Corn-laws, without consideration. Now, it appeared to him that his majesty's ministers were endeavouring to obtain that surreptitiously which they could not otherwise hope for, by taking advantage of the feelings awakened by the distress of the country, to achieve that alteration in the Corn-laws, in which, otherwise, the House would not be induced to concur. They pretended to talk of this as a temporary measure; but he cautioned all those who were hostile to any change in those laws to be on their guard against this insidious attempt to bring about a permanent change without inquiry, and under the cover of the prevailing distress.Lord Ellenborough
764 dwelt upon the increasing distress of the country, with which he did not believe his majesty's ministers were adequately acquainted. He implored the noble earl over and over again, before he brought his measures to maturity, to look at the extraordinary circumstances in which the country was placed. The state of destitution in which
764The Earl of Darnley
754 said, that there could be but one common feeling as to the distresses which unhappily prevailed in some of the manufacturing districts. All who heard of them must feel sorrow. The proposed measure he conceived likely to be attended with beneficial, results. He was not prepared to say that any alteration in the Corn-laws would have the effect of preventing a repetition of distress. He thought much of the suffering might be deduced from a cessation of demand for the articles manufactured, and from
754Lord Calthorpe
758757756755 said, he was in general desirous to leave the discussion of matters of this kind to those who were best calculated to discuss them, yet he felt it impossible not to make a few observations on the present occasion. He would not arrogate to himself any feelings occasioned by the present distress, different from those which were experienced by others. It was impossible to reflect upon it without its making the heart sick. It was dreadful to contemplate a population dying with hunger. In such a case, undoubtedly, the first duty was to give them succour. They had been called a deluded people. It was too true that their feelings and efforts were directed to the destruction of property, by which they themselves would ultimately suffer. The delusion must be corrected by reason; the violence must be suppressed by the rigour of the law; but at the same time, another and a more imperious duty was, to bring relief to that distress which was the foundation of those excesses. He would not distress himself by describing the sufferings of those individuals. It was sufficient to say, that they rendered the present superior to all common cases, and called imperiously for relief. With that view he thanked his noble friend for the enlightened speech in which he had brought forward his proposition, and he thanked him still more for the wisdom of that proposition;—namely, that their lordships should come forward with an address to the throne, praying for the application of a sum of money, or some other mode of relief, to the suffering part of the population. But, having performed that duty, which he admitted was not without its difficulties, from the danger of its being
758757756755Earl Grey
753 said, he was inclined to think, that a reduction of taxation would afford great relief to the country, and would be desirable to be resorted to. The occasion of the present distress, as viewed by ministers, he thought was so
753Lord Dacre
sssssss760759 said, that, as to the distress of the manufacturing districts, and the necessity of alleviating that distress, there was, he believed, but one feeling throughout the country. Every where an ardent and anxious wish prevailed to give the suffering manufacturers whatever support could be given to them. If he had any doubt of the wisdom of the proposition made by the noble marquis, it was founded on his belief, that if it were acceded to, it would open the door for applications of this kind from time to time; and they would press so frequently on the country, that in the end it would be found to be a great national evil. Therefore, and therefore alone, it was, that he was averse from any measure of
sssssss760759Earl Bathurst
s. stated, that the price of the best wheat at Cork was not above 43s.The Earl of Limerick
776 said, he should not
776Lord Ellenborough
 suggested the propriety of examining Mr. Jacob before a committee of their lordships. It had been said, that much of the corn in bond was old and musty, and unfit to make bread; but he found, from returns which had been laid on their lordships' table, that 275,000 quarters of the wheat in bond had been imported in 1825.The Earl of Malmesbury
777 observed, that the depression of the agricultural interest would take away the only means that remained of giving employment to the labouring
777Lord Teynham
 said, he did not see why, in the resolution by which it was proposed that a committee should be appointed, their lordships should be called upon to approve of one part of the measure suggested by ministers. He did not know whether, after inquiry, he might not object to the second measure, if it were proposed to be a permanent power; but as temporary measures, he saw no reason for preferring the one to the other. It appeared to him, that if there was to be an inquiry, it ought not to be a partial one, but that the subject ought to be completely investigated, and every formation obtained.The Earl of Carnarvon
905904903902901900899898 rose pursuant to notice, and said—My object in placing these letters upon your lordships table was, to make use of them for the defence of the committee by which the business of the
905904903902901900899898The Bishop of Ferns
907l.906sl. observed, that the reverend prelate had at least failed in one point which he had promised to establish; namely, that the catechists had not failed in their duty, and had complied with the rules of their office. The reverend lord appeared to be very angry with the Report, against which he directed the principal part of his resentment. The reverend lord had spent the greater part of his life in Ireland; but when he had been a little longer in this country, he would find, to use the phraseology of the noble lord at the head of the Treasury, that it was not the fashion here to make a scandalous misuse of the public money. And a greater misapplication of the public money he did not know of, than that of the Chartered schools in Ireland. For these schools there had been paid 1,600,000907l.906sl.Lord King
 said, that it would be merely necessary for him, in reply to the observations of the noble lord, to refer to the Report of the commissioners, in which they stated that these schools were conducted with good order, and in a manner highly creditable to those who had the superintendence of them.The Bishop of Ferns
908 said, he felt quite assured, from the inquiries which had taken place, and from the knowledge thus obtained by the king's government, that something would ere long be done towards the amelioration of the system. He had read, with great diligence, the exculpatory papers moved for by the learned prelate, and had also looked over the Report of the commissioners, and he must say, that the impression made by them differed very much from that which they seemed to have produced on the mind of the learned prelate. Letters were occasionally transmitted from seven-
908The Marquis of Lansdown
 condemned, in severe terms, the principle on which Charter schools were managed in Ireland, particularly the practice of taking Roman Catholic children from their parents, and bringing them up in the Protestant faith.The Earl of Darnley
 said, there was no institution without some faults. It could not be denied that there had been gross errors and abuses in the management of those schools; but he trusted the inquiry would be productive of good, and that the patrons of such establishments would, in future, be more careful in the management of them. He hoped nothing that had been said that night would tend to prejudice the furtherance of education in Ireland; for there was no country on the face of the globe where religious education was more wanting.The Bishop of Bath and Wells
958957 wished to mention a subject of importance, inasmuch as it was materially connected with the privileges of their lordships' House. He had lately seen, in a printed pamphlet, a statement which was a gross and a scandalous libel upon the House. He did not mean to say that it was also a false libel; for, libel as it was, it might be very true. But then their lordships well knew that, in the eye of the law, the fact of a libel being true was a greater proof of malice, and only added to the guilt of the libeller. He had seen the statement of which he complained in the first edition of the libellous publication to which he had alluded, and which he understood was now undergoing a second edition. The libel, he believed, would make its appearance in the second edition also, and thus be further propagated. He should now read it to their lordships, and when they heard it, he had no doubt that it would have on them—as had been said of libellous publications in another place—the effect of making their hair stand on end; and he was sure they would agree with him in considering it a scandalous libel and breach of the privileges of their lordships' House. It was a passage of a memoir circulated among the landowners of a part of the continent [Appendix 9 of Mr. Jacob's Report]. Alluding to the post-
958957Lord King
 congratulated himself that for once he should agree with the noble lord. He did really think that the paragraph which had been quoted contained a libellous insinuation, and rejoiced that the noble lord had in any way brought the subject before the House. The country was at the eve of a general election; their lordships knew the state of distress into which the manufacturers were plunged; and he was afraid that measures were now brewing which would place the agriculturists in a similar situation. The noble lord deprecated any contest between the two Houses of Parliament.The Earl of Limerick
959 presented a petition from the Roman Catholic inhabitants of Roscommon, praying to be relieved from those disqualifications under which they laboured. The petition, he observed, was signed by several thousands, and this circumstance might readily be credited, when it was considered, that the Roman Catholic religion was the religion of the great majority of the country, of which Roscommon formed a part, and which, until three hundred years ago, had been the religion of the whole of Europe. However erroneous that faith might be, the Roman Catholics had an excuse for not abandoning it; for too few steps had been taken to convince them of their error, either by the government or by the clergy. They had been told that their religion was one of superstition and idolatry; but not much, as far as he had yet heard, had been offered to them in the way of argument, to convince them of the justice of this reproach. They had formerly laboured under heavy pains and disqualifications. They had been released by the bounty and wisdom of parliament from all those penalties, and the greater part of those disqualifications, and they prayed to be exempt from the remainder. He was not disposed to violate that sort of tacit convention, by which it was understood this subject was to be allowed to rest undisturbed during the present session of parliament; and, if he had any influence with the Roman Catholics, he would advise them to refer their case to those persons who had so ably advanced their cause. The Roman Catholics, as far as parliament was concerned, were in
959Lord Dudley and Ward
106110601059s.10581057s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.s.10561055s.1054 said, that in rising to propose the motion of which he had a few days since given notice, he assured their lordships that he felt considerable pain and embarrassment—pain, because it was his lot to differ upon the subject from many noble lords whose public opinions were generally in unison with his own, and whom in private he viewed with every sentiment of regard and esteem—and embarrassment, because, when he viewed the circumstances of the country in connexion with this great question, and the magnitude of the interests it involved, he had deeply to lament that some one of their lordships, of greater ability and greater experience, had not undertaken the task. The only excuse that he had to urge for what in him might appear presumption, was the kind indulgence with which their lordships had heard him on former occasions, when this subject was discussed. All he had to hope then, was, that if this cause, which he felt to be one of justice, should fail in his hands, that failure might not be attributed to its want of merit, but to the insufficiency of the individual who brought it forward. Before he entered fully into
106110601059s.10581057s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.s.10561055s.1054The Earl of Malmesbury
 explained. He meant to state, that the distresses of the manufacturing districts arose out of a total deficiency of means to purchase food.The Earl of Roseberry
10781077 said, he thought the arguments of the noble earl who had just addressed their lordships somewhat singular. The noble earl called upon them to make a concession to prejudice; and he would be ready to yield him the concession he demanded, if the noble earl could only show him one instance in which concession had had the effect of weakening, or had not had the effect of strengthening, prejudice. But, what was the course by which the noble earl arrived at that recommendation? He, first of all, supposed a case of necessity which did not, in fact, exist. Then he demanded a concession to prejudice, which, he admitted, would carry no relief with it; and upon such grounds required, that their lordships should grant a dispensing power to government, which upon a subject connected with the price of food, ought to be intrusted to no man. When a motion was opposed, it was usual for the opposer to endeavour to shew that nobody could accede to it; but the course taken by the noble earl was widely different, for he struggled to prove, that it was impossible for any man to found an objection to the motion. Another complaint was, that the terms of the motion were ambiguous; but to him it seemed that the terms were most simple and intelligible. The meaning of it was merely this—that, four years ago, after patient inquiry, a law had been passed regarding the importation of grain; that the House was now required to alter that law without inquiry; and that it was fit that a previous investigation should be instituted. With whom, he would ask, did the existing Corn-law originate? With the noble earl opposite and his colleagues, and if the noble earl was, as he professed, unable to explain that law, who was com-
10781077Lord Ellenborough
1080s.s.s.s.s.,1079 opposed the motion. He defended ministers from the charge of inconsistency brought against them upon this question. The indisposition to alter the Corn-laws, or in any way meddle with them, had attached solely to the circumstances of the country at the time in which that opinion had
1080s.s.s.s.s.,1079The Earl of Westmoreland
10821081 in giving his vote for the motion of the noble earl, said, he thought it necessary to state, that although he had acquiesced in the measure for letting out the bonded corn, he did not think himself bound to acquiesce in the second measure, for allowing the importation of five-hundred thousand quarters of foreign grain. He begged to call the attention of their lordships, and particularly such of their lordships as were in the habit of supporting the measures of ministers, to the vacillation of government upon this and other questions. The measures proposed by his majesty's government were justified by the distress which existed in the country. Now, he asked their lordships were they not aware of the existence of that distress long before it manifested itself in acts amounting almost to insurrection? His
10821081Earl Grosvenor,
 said, he regretted that the motion had been made at the present moment, because he thought that, if acceded to, it would lead to further inquiry than was at present desirable. He felt himself bound to oppose it, because he thought it a much lesser evil to grant the power asked for by ministers, even if he anticipated that they would exercise it in a way different from that in which he believed it would be exercised, than to accede to the motion of the noble lord, and go into an inquiry, which must necessarily have the effect of increasing the existing ferment.Lord Falmouth
1083 said, that if ministers had been actuated by that degree of foresight and forethought which was necessary to conduct the affairs of a great empire, they would not stand in their present predicament. If, two or three weeks ago, when they might have foreseen the existing state of things, and when the noble earl opposite told the House, that he had no intention to meddle directly or indirectly with the Corn-laws this session
1083The Earl of Darnley
10851084 with reference to the mis-
10851084Lord King,
1086 said, he considered the whole policy of ministers upon the present question to have been vacillating, ambiguous, and unintelligible. It was but a few days since they had declared distinctly, that they did not propose to go into the subject of the Corn-laws during the present session; and he must deny that any change had taken place in the agricultural prospects of the country, which justified a departure from that intention. As for the "possibility" of failing crops, to which they adverted, when was it that such possibility would not be capable of being made an argument? The true secret of the change in the opinions of ministers—and they might as well speak openly and say so—
1086The Earl of Carnarvon
1087 said, that if he were governed by the dislike which he felt to the Corn-laws, he should certainly oppose the measure brought forward by ministers; because he was quite sure that it was only by the aid of occasional alterations, that those laws could possibly continue to exist. It would be well for noble lords, however, to consider in what condition government would be left by a refusal of the power which it now demanded. It would be a very different state of things, the not having provided such a power, and the having asked for it and been refused it. Suppose the most serious scarcity, and consequent distress, to arise in the country. All that ministers could say would be, that parlia-
1087Lord Dudley and Ward
1088 said, that the rejection of his noble friend's motion would propagate that delusion which good sense must disclaim. It had been said, that some persons objected to the first proposition of ministers, while others only objected to the second. For his part, he had no scruple in saying that he objected to both. There ought to be no alteration in the principle of the law, without a previous inquiry, and it should be proved that those measures were either not an innovation, or that they were justified by necessity; because the British grower was protected by the law until there was scarcity at home. With reference to the declaration made by ministers of their intention to alter the law, he would ask, did the price of corn cause the distress? Numerous other causes were assigned; amongst them were over-trading and excessive specula-
1088The Earl of Mansfield
10951094s.,s.s.s.s.s.s.1093s.s.1092s.s.s.10911090s.s.s.1089 said, that he felt naturally anxious to seize the opportunity of offering to the House his opinion on this question, and he could not take a better opportunity, nor one more agreeable to himself, than immediately after his noble friend who had last spoken. If his noble friend meant to say, that he (lord Liverpool) thought that the Corn-bill, passed in the year 1815, was not applicable to the present times, he acknowledged that his noble friend was perfectly right. If his noble friend said, that he thought that the Corn-bill of 1822 was not applicable to the present year, and that it ought to be altered, he was right in that also. That was the very nature of such a question as this. It must be always variable; and their lordships should adapt the system to the circumstances of the times. In the year 1815 their lordships adapted the Corn-laws to the circumstances of the times, by fixing the average price of wheat
10951094s.,s.s.s.s.s.s.1093s.s.1092s.s.s.10911090s.s.s.1089The Earl of Liverpool
109810971096 said, he rose at that lute hour briefly to offer his opinion upon the motion now under their lordships' consideration. If ever inquiry into any question were called for, never did an occasion arise on which it was more incumbent on their lordships to institute one, in reference to all the interests now under their deliberation, than on the system of the Corn-laws; and he had no difficulty in stating it as the settled conviction of his mind, that at no distant period the whole system must be brought under a review of parliament; and it was because the alteration suggested by the noble earl opposite was a temporary alteration, not preceded by inquiry, that he now objected to it. He looked forward to a permanent alteration, preceded by inquiry, which alone could enable their lordships to judge of the expediency of the change, and the expediency of the system to be substituted for the one the defects of which they sought to remove. Let their lordships look at the effect that would be produced by the proposed temporary alteration, not sanctioned by inquiry, not only upon the agricultural, but on all the other interests. It was not founded upon any special emergency —not upon the probability of a famine, because if there were such a probability, the noble earl would not have failed to allege it. One of two things must therefore have been proposed, and the noble earl could not escape from the dilemma—either it was intended to make the alteration, which was nominally temporary, permanent, without affording the opportunity of seeing the grounds which rendered it necessary —or there existed apprehensions upon grounds not stated, and he therefore presumed there were none, of a scarcity— an evil which, if it did arise, would be more effectually met by government exercising a sound discretion on the expediency or otherwise of opening the ports, than as such a measure of legislation as this, legislation in the dark, which was always attended with mischievous effects, but most so when it affected the subsistence of the people. It seemed to him, that all the arguments which had been adduced by the noble earl in favour of having such a power lodged with government, would
109810971096The Marquis of Lansdown
10671066 said, that he had listened with much attention to the arguments of the noble lord who had last
10671066The Marquis of Salisbury
d.s.1068 said, he felt great difficulty in giving the vote which a sense of duty would compel him to deliver. He had hitherto been a zealous supporter of the administration. Through good report, and through bad report, he had adhered to them; but what he owed to this country, and to the country from which he came, bound him to resist a measure fraught with injury to both, and especially to the latter. It had been said, that there was not time for inquiry. He would ask whose fault was that? It was now but
d.s.1068The Earl of Limerick
1073s.1072s.1071 said, that in the outset of the observations he intended to make, he was anxious to state that he was not, by any means, enamoured of the Corn-laws, but still adhered to the opinion he had expressed on presenting a petition in the last session; namely, that they ought to be revised, and that that revision could have been most advantageously made in the course of that year. He also agreed, that there were circumstances connected with the present session, which rendered it advisable not to enter into the discussion. He therefore had coincided, and still coincided, in the sentiments avowed by ministers in both Houses, although within a few days they had abandoned the very principle they were the first to establish. He did not wish to disparage the opinions of those who considered the existing Corn-laws a faultless system; but, that he might not be deemed a bigotted admirer of it, it was necessary for him to make a few remarks. Of the two propositions of government, he had listened to one, at least with feelings of astonishment and dismay; he alluded particularly to that which gave a discretionary power to admit foreign corn after the prorogation of parliament. He had felt astonishment, not only because the change recommended was not slight and trivial, but because it was in direct opposition to the declarations of the advisers of the Crown, that they would never propose an alteration of the Corn-laws to parliament without an antecedent inquiry. — [Lord Liverpool, across the table, intimated his dissent]. He begged to apologise, if he was mistaken; but he had certainly so understood the noble earl.
1073s.1072s.1071The Earl of Roseberry
10761075s.s.1074 said, he was disposed, upon all occasions, to give real and effectual protection to the agricultural interests. He would almost view it with especial favour; for, notwithstanding the sneers and jests which were cast upon it, both in and out of parliament, he would assert that upon it was founded the constitutional government of this country. He had yet to learn why it was now to be viewed with less partiality; and why the valuable and industrious yeomanry and peasantry of England were to be disregarded? Hence he would not assist in the progress of any measure calculated to injure them, and agreed with his noble relative on the cross-bench, that no injury
10761075s.s.1074The Earl of Aberdeen
10651064s.1063s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.,1062 said, that it had been the opinion of his majesty's ministers, an opinion which they had expressed in that House, and in which they were justified by circumstances, and supported by the opinions of others, that the present was not the fit time to discuss the operation of the Corn-laws. The noble earl who had just resumed his scat seemed to dif-
10651064s.1063s.s.s.,s.s.s.,s.,1062Earl Bathurst
1070 said, he considered that the propositions of ministers, respecting the introduction of foreign corn, if carried into effect, would not be prejudicial to the interests of the agriculturists, and would be beneficial to the community. Having said this, he was not prepared to deny, that he had some apprehensions that the bringing forward the question of the Corn-laws at the close of the session would be attended with great inconvenience. He was perfectly satisfied that his majesty's ministers had taken that course which they believed best calculated to obtain the end they had in view; namely, the good of the community. He was sorry that the proposition had been submitted to the House, as any question connected with the Corn-laws, short of a full discussion—which ought not, in his opinion, as he had before said, to be now entered upon—was likely to produce more harm than good. The principle of the two measures proposed by government, he really considered to be the same, and could not conceive how any distinction could be drawn between them. There had gone forth an opinion abroad, which he wished to correct, that the sufferings of the people arose in consequence of a boon given to the agriculturists. Now, he begged to ask what boon they had received? And this boon, it was conceived, ought to be given up; but there was none existing. He did not enter into the subject invidiously. He would contend, that the interest of the agriculturist and the manufacturer was the same, and he should belie his sentiments were he not to state it. In considering this question, it was necessary to examine closely into the real circumstances and condition of the different classes of the community; and in doing so, whatever might be the apparent prosperity, he could not help feeling, that, although large quantities of manufactures were going out of the country, yet the rates at which those commodities were manufactured were quite inadequate to the maintenance of a great portion of those who looked to that source for the means of their subsistence. If any measure could be devised for the relief of the manufacturing community, which would not be at the same time productive of injury to the first and most important interest of the country; namely, the agricultural interests, it would be the duty of parliament to embrace it with
1070The Earl of Harewood
1401 said, that the discussion had run, very unnecessarily, in his opinion, into the general question of the Corn-laws. Whenever that question came regularly before the House, and it could not, he thought, be longer delayed than the next session, the agricultural interest must make up their minds to considerable alterations. The system of prohibition must be relinquished entirely, and open ports, under a protecting duty, be established. He meant such a protecting duty as would be sufficient to place the grower of corn in this country, laden as it was with taxation, upon a footing of equality with countries less pressed upon by the demands for establishments, and the payment of interest on so large a national debt. He did not think that there was much probability of ministers taking upon themselves the responsibility of the measure for allowing the further importation of corn; as, unless there was a total failure of our harvest, of which at present there was no appearance, the provisions of that bill would be altogether inoperative. But, as it might do some
1401The Earl of Darnley
 said, he should not have again troubled their lordships had it not been for an observation which fell from the noble earl at the head of his majesty's government; namely, that these measures would have passed over with silence, unless for the opposition in that House. The opposition arose, on his part, from a wish to discharge his duty as a peer of the realm. He well knew what he had to contend against. Two great influences were opposed to him, but neither the "civium ardor prava jubentium," nor the "vultus instantis tyranni" should ever prevent him from expressing his sentiments. The noble earl was too good a scholar not to know that the last word did not mean tyrant solely, but any other person possessing power. It was true that he regarded his interests as involved in the question of the Corn-laws; and as such he was interested in the subject; but it did not therefore follow that he was unable to consult the interests of the country at large.The Earl of Malmesbury
 opposed the motion, and wished an inquiry to take place into the subject of the Corn-laws generally.The Duke of Somerset
1391s.l.d.s l.d.s.s.,l.s.l.s.l.s.d.s.d.s.l.1390d.,s.l.s.l.s.l.s.s.s.,13891388s.1387s.s.s.1386d.s. said, he felt it necessary to deliver his opinion on the two measures which had been brought forward by his majesty's ministers. He must in the outset say, that the speech of his noble friend behind him had given him the greatest satisfaction. A speech of greater power, of more justness of argument, or more deliberate calmness of reasoning, he had never heard in the course of a public discussion; but, though he was sensible of the effect which that speech would have on their lordships, yet he felt too much interest in this question to give a silent vote on the present occasion. Before he proceeded to investigate the subject, he requested, that the two first paragraphs of his majesty's speech on the 3rd of February, 1825, should be read.—The paragraphs were accordingly read as follows:—"My lords and gentlemen,—We are commanded by his majesty to express to you the gratification which his majesty derives from the continuance and progressive increase of that public prosperity upon which his majesty congratulated you at the opening of the last session of parliament. There never was a period in the history of this country when all the great interests of the nation were at the same time in so thriving a condition, or when a feeling of content and satisfaction was more widely diffused through all classes of the British people."—Here there was a most flattering picture of the prosperity of the country; and yet, wheat was actually 61391s.l.d.s l.d.s.s.,l.s.l.s.l.s.d.s.d.s.l.1390d.,s.l.s.l.s.l.s.s.s.,13891388s.1387s.s.s.1386d.s.The Earl of Lauderdale
1395s.,s.,s.1394s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.s.1393s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.1392 said, he felt it necessary to say a few words in answer to some part of the noble earl's speech. At the same time, he did not feel it necessary to touch upon many of the arguments of the noble earl, which, though they involved considerations of great importance,
1395s.,s.,s.1394s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.s.1393s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.1392The Earl of Liverpool
s.s. said he did not think that any necessity had been shown for the adoption of the measure. On the contrary, he considered it pregnant with mischief. He knew that it had excited great alarm in this country. In Ireland it had created the greatest confusion. He held in his hand, a letter from a gentleman, upon whose assertion he could rely, stating that a friend of his had a quantity of corn coming from Dantzic, the prime cost of which was 20s.s.The Earl of Limerick
1397 said, he would do the noble earl, at the head of the government, the justice to say, that that noble earl had made a stout defence in a bad cause. He had no doubt that that noble earl, with many others, would, in the next year, make a defence in the last ditch; but he trusted that such opposition would not induce parliament to stand in the gap between prosperity and a starving population. He congratulated the noble earl upon his success over his domestic enemies; and the noble earl, having set his House in order, might next year, with the certainty of success, proceed to the discussion of the Corn-laws. There were only two ways in which the proposed relief could be afforded to the manufacturing population. One was, by passing the bill now before their lordships, and the other, by his majesty's ministers acting upon their own responsibility in case of emergency. He preferred the mode adopted by his majesty's ministers, and he did so because it held out to the population the positive assurance that government would, if necessary, give them relief; whereas, if such a measure had not been brought forward, the manufacturing population would have been left in doubt as to the intentions of government. He knew many noble lords who were averse to free trade—many who were averse to free air (of which there was not then much in that House)—and many who were averse to free conscience. He was a friend both to free air and to free trade; and he trusted that the God above would give free air, and that his majesty's ministers would give free trade. He also looked forward to a better state of things, when men would enjoy free conscience. Many noble lords were averse to free trade; and at the close of the last war, propositions had been made to exclude all raw produce. One said, exclude butter; another said, exclude corn; another said, exclude wool — that was the codex agrestis of the hon. member for Somerset, and Suffolk, who joined in the cry, that this country ought to be a nation of sellers, and not a nation of buyers; but those who maintained that doctrine, did not state how a nation could sell, without buying something in return from the nations to which they sold. A question had been asked, whether this country could produce sufficient corn for its own consumption? No doubt this country could. But then another question
1397Lord King
1398 said, he had voted upon the former occasion against the appointment of a committee; but, in
1398The Marquis of Salisbury
 observed, that, although there might be no great objection to the taking out the bonded corn, yet, if this measure was to be repeated, a temptation would be held out to the corn factors to overload the warehouses with foreign corn; and it would be injustice and ruin to them to refuse admission to it. Since the commencement of the present session, the measures of ministers had been calculated to prolong the distress of the country. The distress was, in fact, owing to the imbecile, wavering, and changeful measures of the government. None of those measures had been adapted to remedy the evils they professed to provide for. In consequence of this, the dissolution of parliament was looked to without regret by the country. It was his opinion, that the Corn-laws should be inquired into at once, and established on a solid foundation. For want of this, the country, during the intermission of parliament, would be left in a state of confusion. The speech of the noble earl opposite had been filled with false logic and panegyrics on ministers; at the same time that it was not very complimentary to the House, and held out a sort of threat. But, notwithstanding the taunts and threats of the noble earl, he hoped their lordships would do their duty, not from a sense of interest, as landed proprietors, but out of regard to the country. He objected to the measures before the House, because they were alike foolish and michievous.The Earl of Carnarvon
137013691368s.s.s.1367 said, that in proposing the second reading of the bill now before their lordships, it would be unnecessary for him to trespass at any length upon their patience, and the more so, as in the debate anticipating the present motion, he had so fully stated the motives which governed, and the obs jects which were expected to be realized by his majesty's government. He would, therefore patiently hear any observations which noble lords might think proper to offer, and he trusted to their indulgence to allow him to make such remarks as those observations might call for. He had already put their lordships in possession of the motives which induced him, at that period of the session, to call their attention to this subject; and he would now only address to them a very few words indeed. Here, however, he begged to repeat, what he had so often stated before, that the two bills now before their lordships had no reference whatever to the general question of the Corn-laws. That question he considered to be entirely open for discussion, and whether any alteration in the general system of these laws would be advisable or not was a point in no degree whatsoever affected by the bills now before their lordships. Under special circumstances, he considered these temporary measures to be necessary; although he knew that, in certain quarters, considerable apprehensions were entertained as to the nature of their operation. Despite of that, however, he had the satisfaction of believing, that, with respect to the first bill which he had the honour of proposing (and which, in point of principle, might be considered the most ob-
137013691368s.s.s.1367The Earl of Liverpool
1373l.s.1372d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.1371s.s. said, he might appear singular in expressing his opinion that a partial and gradual admission of the corn at present in bond was not objectionable, and that, with reference to the state of the country, the operation of the measure would bear a strong resemblance to the safety valve of a steam engine. The measure was not, however, called for by any alarming rise in the price of corn. Last year, the average price of wheat was 681373l.s.1372d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.1371s.s.The Earl of Malmesbury
13751374 said, he should not consider himself justifiable, holding the responsible situation which he held in his majesty's government, if he did not distinctly state it to be his opinion, that no measure could be more open to blame, than one calculated deeply to affect the agricultural interest. He was firmly convinced that every other interest which went to the constitution of the country, that the manufacturing, the commercial, the professional interests, rested so strongly on the agricultural interest, that parliament would do infinite mischief to every rank and class in the community, if they did not carefully foster the interests of agriculture. But he could by no means look on the measures under consideration as correctly represented, when they were described as affecting, or leading to any important change in, the system of laws which governed our trade in corn. With respect to the measure for liberating bonded corn, that seemed to meet with little or no objection; and he should, therefore, dismiss it without remark. But the other and more important measure, to which considerable objection was made, seemed to him to be so founded on constitutional principles, that he hoped their lordships would allow him to say a few words respecting it. No man could feel more strongly than he did the inexpediency, on the part of his majesty's government, of committing any act of power against the law. Yet, sure he was, that circumstances might arise, in which it would be absolutely necessary, for the salvation of the country, that his majesty's government should commit an act of power against the law; provided always that they were warranted by necessity in so doing. In fact, the constitutional doctrine seemed to him to be this; if a case could be foreseen in which it would be necessary to commit an act of power in violation of the law, it was their duty to remove the objectionable part of that act by divesting it of its illegality. But even that proposition ought to be limited: for his majesty's government ought, in no case, to apply for such a measure in advance, if it was probable that more mischief would result to the public from the
13751374The Lord Chancellor
13811380s.l.,1379137813771376 observed, that the noble and learned lord had stated very properly the grounds on which he supported the proposed measure. He had as much jealousy as the learned lord of an act of power on the part of the Crown, in violation of the law; but he was well aware, that if, under certain circumstances, such an act were not resorted to, the public safety might be endangered. He fully subscribed, therefore, to the principle which had been laid down by the learned lord. But, the question to consider was, how far that principle supported and justified the present proposition; and, after listening to the learned lord with all the attention to which he was entitled, he must say that the learned lord had failed to convince him, that the measures in question was susceptible of the defence which had been set up for them. The learned lord had justly called this measure an act of indemnity in advance; and had added, that where a necessity could be foreseen, in which his majesty's government would be compelled, by a sense of public duty, to do an act in violation of the law, it was better to provide them with this previous indemnity, than to wait for indemnity until after the act had been done. If he agreed with the learned lord in this opinion, it must be with some qualification. He admitted, that if such a necessity could be foreseen, it might be right for parliament previously to arm his majesty's ministers with the power of acting under that necessity, in the same manner as they would be justified in acting, were the power not granted them. But then the necessity must be clearly proved. The circumstances must be of so striking and extraordinary a nature, as not only to justify the legislature for taking such a step, but to make it criminal in them not to take it. Now, he asked their lordships, was that the case in the present instance? When did the necessity of which his majesty's ministers now spoke arise? Did it exist on the 18th of April, when a motion was made in another place respecting the Corn-laws, and when his majesty's mi-
13811380s.l.,1379137813771376Earl Grey
1385s.s.s.s.s.,13841383s,1382s.s.s.,s.s.s. said, that the price of 801385s.s.s.s.s.,13841383s,1382s.s.s.,s.s.s.The Earl of Harrowby
1400 objected to the measure, because the object of it was to impose a tax exclusively upon the agriculturist, for the relief of the manufacturer. He should have no objection to a general tax for that purpose; but he must protest against this partial tax. It was like stealing leather to make poor men's shoes. To ruin the agriculturists for the benefit of the manufacturers, would be to injure both classes, without relieving either. The first care in every country was the agriculture of it; from its agriculture its population arose—and from its population arose its manufactures. Thus, in the United States of America, where the agriculture was not restricted, the manufacturing classes were not numerous; yet those states were increasing in strength. And for what reason? Because their agriculture was encouraged. To cause distress among the agriculturists, such as had existed sometime ago, when the importation of corn had ruined more than half the farmers, could not be beneficial to the manufacturers. Yet the present measures were calculated to cause the diminution of the capital of the agriculturists—a diminution which would be felt, as well in the production of meat, as an article of food, as in the growth of corn. Their lordships were bound, therefore, to give protection to the cultivation of corn. Looking upon the subject in another point of view, he would ask, if some check ought not to be formed against the superabundant increase of the manufacturing classes? What caused the great distress prevailing in Ireland, a country blessed with fertility of the most extraordinary kind? The want of capital to carry on its agriculture. If, therefore, the capital of the agriculturists was reduced in this country, the injury to the manufacturers would be great in the extreme. What was the cause of the late agricultural distress? Nothing but importation, which had ruined many farmers, and in the county of Dorset had caused prices to fall one half. If there was any difficulty in this country supplying itself, it was entirely owing to importation. He had lately conversed with a gentleman who had made inquiries in different parts of the country, as to the means which farmers possessed of paying their rents. From this gentleman he learned, that out of two hundred capital farms not more than ten were fully stocked, and that one hundred were only half stocked. This
1400Lord Redesdale
