 Sir F. Burdett  then rose to present the general petition of the Catholics of Ireland. This duty, he said, he was anxious to lose not a moment in performing, but he would not avail himself of that opportunity to make any preliminary remarks with reference- to the general question. He would content himself, therefore, with shortly expressing his regret at the absence of the right lion. Secretary for Foreign Affairs. Had that right hon. gentleman been present, he should have been happy to have consulted with him as to the future steps to be taken, in furtherance of the important measure prayed for by the petitioners. He was sorry, he repeated, for the right hon. gentleman's absence, both on account of its
 408
 The Hon. William Hare  rose to present a petition from the Roman Catholics of Listowell, in the county of Kerry, praying for a removal of those civil disabilities under which persons of their religious persuasion laboured. The hon. gentleman said, he had himself witnessed the many evils which resulted from the system of exclusion which was acted on towards his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects. All the disunion, ill-feeling, and animosity, public and private, which prevailed in Ireland, might be traced to that source, nor could he conceive how permanent tranquillity could be secured in that country, so long as such a penal code was suffered to exist. It was a matter of infinite moment to conciliate the feelings of the people of Ireland, and by that means to restore peace, order, and unanimity; and he was convinced, that nothing could effect that most desirable object but complete and unqualified emancipation. Such a measure might be said to carry its own security along with it, since it was calculated to excite the warm gratitude, and to draw forth the friendly and affectionate feelings, of the millions for whose benefit it was intended. He was as ardently attached to the constitution as any man could be. He gloried in it as the proudest boast of the country; and if granting a participation in all its immunities to his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects was likely, in the slightest degree, to impair the constitution, he would oppose any further concession. But he denied the assertion. Such a measure would strengthen, instead of weakening it; and he could not see how it was incompatible with its safety, to admit those who bore their full share of the taxes and burthens of the state to
 412
 Mr. Hume  said, he rose to present a petition, which was certainly couched in very strong language; but the letter by which it was accompanied expressed a hope, that the House would not cavil at strong language, when it came from men who were in a starving condition. The petitioners described themselves as "The (Starving Weavers of Blackburn and its neighbourhood;" and the petition set forth; s. s. 413
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that any answer which he could make to the inquiries of the hon. member must of necessity be unsatisfactory, unless it could be accompanied with a full explanation, and a discussion of all the points involved in it. As he was not prepared to enter upon such an explanation and discussion at that moment, he could only pursue the course which he had adopted in antecedent years, and generally approved of by the House, whatever objections might have been made to it by individuals. He must also remark, that he thought, at the present moment, the state of the navy was an object of so great importance, that no obstacle ought to be placed in the way of the vote; and for this reason, even if he were prepared to enter on the discussion which the hon. member seemed to invite, he should decline doing so. At no distant period he should be in a situation to make the fullest statement on this subject, and he trusted the House would not think that it was from any unwillingness on his part to meet the discussion, that he now declined to let it interfere with the present vote, but because he thought that nothing should stop the course of so important a branch of the national strength as the navy.
 Colonel Davies  said, that shortly after the meeting of parliament, he had given notice of a motion to refer all the estimates to a committee above stairs. It might be expected that he should, therefore, object to the present vote; but he begged to state his opinion, that every thing ought to be done to support the government of the country in the manly line of conduct they had adopted, and that he would be
 436
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose, and said:—Sir, in the period which has elapsed between the separation and reassembling of this House, the country has sustained the loss, by death, of the first prince of the blood; a prince whom the probable course of human events would, at some future period, have placed on the throne of these realms. Under such circumstances, at any time, and without reference to personal qualities or extraneous considerations, this House would have been induced, in unison with the general feelings of the country—to have presented an Address to the Throne, expressive of their respectful sympathy with the feelings of his majesty. The House would, under any circumstances, I say, have been induced to adopt that course, from the feelings which must necessarily arise in the bosoms of subjects of an ancient and limited monarchy, from those feelings that spring from the deep-felt conviction, that there is no other form of government better suited to the genius and habits of the people of this country, or better cal-
 426 427 428 429 430 431 432 433
 Mr. Brougham,  feeling the deepest sympathy with those who most deplored the decease of his royal highness, the late commander-in-chief, assured the; right hon. gentleman, that the language he had employed on this occasion, made it not only perfectly easy, but extremely grateful for him to concur in the proposed Address. In now rising to express his own entire concurrence in the language of the right hon. Secretary, he should abstain from all comment, further than to add that he considered it to have been no small praise to his royal highness, and one that might with perfect truth be applied to his memory, to have, for so long a period of time, enjoyed the disposal of the immense patronage of the army, without ever allowing political considerations— by which, he would be understood to mean, such as were more commonly termed party considerations—to interfere with the disposal of that patronage. And he would add another just eulogium, that his royal highness had shown himself quite incapable of allowing mere personal feelings—feelings of asperity towards any particular individuals for example—to cast any shade across the path of his public duty; and, surely, the best testimony which the country could have of the sincerity and honesty of those strong-political opinions which his royal highness confessed himself to entertain on certain questions—and, on some subjects, he might be almost tempted to call them prejudices—the best test that his royal highness at least hold them honestly and conscientiously, was this, that he cherished them as much as possible, free from all admixture of asperity towards those whose notions were opposed to his own on such matters.
 Mr. Maberly  thought his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, had done no more than his duty. He had no doubt that ministers knew what was the state of the revenue; but that was not enough for the House. They had a right to the information which his hon. friend asked for, and ought not to take any thing for granted. Before the House consented to vote away the public money, they should have an account laid on the table of the means from which that money was to be derived.
 Sir George Cockburn  assured the hon. member, that there was the strongest desire in the admiralty, to do every thing in their power to forward promotion in the navy. Some years ago it had been thought to go on too rapidly; but he was glad to see a more liberal feeling springing up, and was confident that nothing would be wanting on the part of government to give it a beneficial effect.
 Mr. Maberly,  having voted with ministers for sending troops to Portugal, could not with consistency vote against the resolution now proposed. He thought that the present was no time to talk of reductions in the army or navy; and he felt the necessity of upholding those establishments the more, when he reflected on the threats which America had thought proper to promulgate in the late speech of her President. It was right that England should have it in her power to show that she had an efficient army and navy at her disposal, and that neither was in a crippled state. Our internal difficulties had, no doubt, given rise to and encouraged those threats; but he hoped that those difficulties would soon subside; and he felt that the surest mode of allaying them and preventing their recurrence would be, to reduce the heavy taxation under which the country was groaning.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that the subject had engaged the frequent and serious attention of the Admiralty; and, although he might not quite concur in the opinions of the hon. member, he would say, that if impressment could not be altogether abolished, it ought to be avoided and discouraged as far as was consistent with the efficiency of the naval service. He would not now enter into the question, but he would express his dissent from the opinion of the hon. gentleman, that the naval service was unpopular. The contrary was satisfactorily proved on the late occasion of sending troops to Portugal.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that so far from being unwilling to discuss the subject, he had expressed his readiness to do so whenever the hon. member for Aberdeen thought proper to bring it forward.
 Sir G. Cockburn  said, that the subject on which the gallant admiral seemed so much at a loss for information was very easily explained. It was necessary to have a proper class of frigates to meet those of other nations. It was well known, that one of our frigates was captured in the late war by a frigate of the enemy; but it was not then generally known, that
 447 448
 Sir G. Cockburn  contended that, from the opinion of the hon. member for Wareham, who thought that promotion went on too slowly, and from that of the hon. member for Aberdeen, who thought it went on too quickly in the navy, it was only fair to presume, that the Admiralty, in steering a steady middle course between the two, was acting with wisdom and moderation. He owned, however, that the Admiralty were more inclined to adopt the view of the hon. member for Wareham, than that of the hon. member for Aberdeen. The captains now at the head of the list had been twenty-six or twenty-seven years in the service; and, supposing they were thirty years old when they attained the rank of captain, they must now be nearly sixty years old. Now, without wishing to detract from their just claims, he thought it only right to keep feeding the service with young officers. In the promotions of the last year, thirty officers had been made captains, who passed their examinations as lieutenants twelve years since. He thought that the House would not
 449
 Mr. Sykes  expressed a hope that some measure would be adopted that would do away with impressment in the navy. He should be rejoiced to see this foul blot removed from the high character of our naval service. Remedies had been suggested for the admitted evil. In a work written by captain Maryat, an officer of great experience, some valuable remarks were to be met with, which went to show that this great evil might be altogether abolished. He could not conceive a greater hardship than that a man in the merchant-service, on his return to his family, after having been six or seven years at sea, was liable to be seized on his coming into port, almost within the very view and grasp of his family and friends. Whenever the hon. gentleman should bring forward the question, it should have his sincere support.
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  said:—I rise for the purpose of presenting petitions from sundry bodies of Irish Catholics. The first, on the part of the Catholic bishop and clergy of the diocese of Waterford, and the rest from various parishes in that county, praying to be emancipated from the political disabilities to which they are now subjected. I should not venture to accompany the presentation of these memorials with any remarks at length, if it had not been the wish of many of my constituents, whose names are attached to them, that I should press the consideration of this question upon the House, in as strong a manner as possible. I cannot help feeling that I, who am a very young member of society and of this House, should offer some apology in rising to address it on a subject of such vast importance as that contained in the prayer of the petitions I now hold in my hand; but the very importance of the question, connected as it intimately is with the well-being, bound up as it is with the dearest interests, of those whom I have the honour to represent, will, I trust and believe, be accepted as no trivial excuse for my coming forward on this occasion.— Sir, I have not the presumption to request attention to my own opinions, merely as those of the individual who has the honour to address the House. I am aware, that, if what I say shall be considered to have any claim at all upon its consideration, it must arise from the sanction of those who have deputed me to speak their prayers, and from the circumstance of those prayers being offered up by the petitioners, in common with nearly the entire nation to which they belong; and, Sir, in making this assertion, I would not wish to be understood as putting forward any exaggerated statement of facts. In Water-ford, with which I am more particularly connected, Catholics are to Protestants as twenty-three to one; in the province of Minister, of which that county forms a part, the proportion is still more favourable to them; and in the two provinces of Leinster and Connaught, it is, perhaps, scarcely less so; and these calculations, founded as they are upon a census taken with the closest investigation and most accurate research, bear me out in the assertion, that nothing less than the prayers
 418 419 420 421 de facto, 422 423 424 425
 Mr. Calcraft  thought there was a great deal in the hon. member for Aberdeen's objection, but considering the state of the country, he could not consent that any obstacle should be put in the way of the vote for the navy estimates. He was glad to hear that the establishment was not to be cut down, and that government had paused before they put into execution their intention of reducing it. Even if our foreign relations had been less urgent than they were, he should be against any reduction. Every body knew how much depended on the navy, and that when the country was involved in war, notwithstanding the reliance which we placed on the army, it was the navy that must fight us through. The praises which had been so justly bestowed on the duke of York, reminded him that the system of regularity and fairness of promotion in the army, which had been put in practice by him, was one of the most honourable parts of his character. He wished to recommend to those who had the direction of the navy,
 437
 Mr. Hume  said, that it was high time to confine this vote within due limits. It was given as a reason that no reduction had taken place in the number of men this year, that our expedition to Portugal had interfered to prevent such reduction. But if we were to right the wrongs of other countries at the expense of our own, the number of men which the committee were now called upon to vote, would in a short time be insufficient for the purpose. The House ought to pause a little, and consider whether an expense of six millions per annum was not too much to pay to support Portugal and preserve the faith of treaties. At the same time that he deprecated the system of keeping up expensive war establishments in time of peace, he was ready to avow, that he would rather preserve the whole of our naval force, expensive as it was, than keep up half our present military establishment. If this country had not a redundant military force, ministers would never have ventured on the rash step which they lately thought proper to take. A superabundant army tended to encourage a nation to go to war. Where was the necessity for our keeping up an undiminished navy,
 439
 Mr. Hume  said, he would not now prevent the Speaker's leaving the chair, but should take the earliest opportunity of as certaining the sense of the House on this subject.
 Mr. Hume  said, that before the Speaker left the chair, he wished, seeing the right hon. the chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, to ask him whether this was not a proper occasion for the right hon. gentleman to state what was his intention with respect to the expenditure for the year, he thought that, before the House was called upon to vote on this subject, they ought not only to know what was proposed as the amount of expenditure, but also the income of the past year, that they might judge of the scale on which the estimates should be formed, with a view to the means that the revenue of the country possessed of discharging its debts. He wished to know whether the expedition to Portugal had added to the amount of the estimates, and he wished also to impress upon the House the necessity of their considering that, in the present distressed state of the country, no increase should be sanctioned, and that they ought
 435
 Mr. Hume  said, that on former occasions when the question of excessive punishment in the navy had been under discussion, he had particularized cases of its occurrence. There was one case of a vessel having a complement of a hundred and twelve men, out of whom eighty-six had been flogged in the course of a twelve month. Would the gallant officer deny that such abuses had existed? They might be diminished; bat it was most desirable to prevent the possibility of their occurrence. On the occasion to which he alluded, he had not confined himself to one or two cases, but had adverted to a number, proceeding, not on vague, or private information, as the gallant officer supposed, but on the sentences of courts martial. It was not his habit to make any statement in parliament which was not founded on substantial evidence. In some instances he had withheld the names of the officers from considerations of delicacy. One officer, in particular, who had become sensible of his error, had been re-employed; and it would have been cruel to name him.
 Mr. Hume,  adverting to the item for erecting a corn-mill for the victualling department at Deptford, said, he should be glad to know for what reason government, instead of obtaining flour for the navy at that cheaper rate which competition would naturally occasion, had determined to prepare it themselves, at what must be a considerably increased expense?
 Mr. Hume  said, he should be sorry the idea should be entertained that he wished to cripple the resources of the country; at the same time he could not but observe, in reply to the gallant admiral, that the readiness to give a black eye often led to mischief. When a man had a sword at his command, it was natural for him to get into a quarrel; whereas, if he were without the means of doing mischief, it was more than probable that no quarrel
 441
 Mr. Hume  expressed a hope that the impressment of seamen would be discontinued. As soon as it was known that an armament was to be fitted out for Portugal, all the men engaged in the merchant service were filled with alarm in the several ports of England. They concealed themselves, and would on no account appear. At some future day he would bring the subject more fully before the House; and he trusted that, as some improvements had been introduced for the comfort of the seamen, impressment, which made the naval service so unpopular, would be abolished, and some inducement held out to men to enter voluntarily into the service. He also wished to see the ignominious infliction of flogging in the navy done away with.
 Mr. Hume  said, that with all deference to the hon. member for Wareham, who had told the House, that promotion went on too slowly on the navy, he thought there was too much promotion in our naval service; that it went on much too rapidly; and that it was getting beyond the means of the country to support. The dead weight, instead of decreasing, as it annually ought to do, was increasing under the present system, and seemed likely to continue for ever. He contended that the House ought either to prevent promotion from being granted to more than a certain number of officers, or determine not to give it except to those who had been twelve or fifteen years in the service. Such a change would prevent young men of title and family from being promoted over the head of their seniors, without seeing any thing of actual service.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know whether the fraudulent factors alluded to had been prosecuted. Had the payment of the penalties been enforced?
 Mr. Hume  could not help thinking that if the Navy Board had given publicity to the frauds, and enforced the penalties, they would have been enabled to obtain good flour in other quarters.
 Mr. Hume  said, he thought that this and the next item, which was chiefly for timber, and which, added to the present, amounted to 1,500,000 l. 446
 Mr. Hume  said, as promotion was asserted to be necessary to keep the navy in order, he supposed it would be equally necessary for the marine service; and yet, in one year, he saw two hundred and ninety-four promotions in the navy, and only thirteen in the marines. From 1810 to 1826 there had been only seventy-six promotions in the whole marine service.
 Sir E. Owen  said, he had frequently and anxiously examined this subject; and the more he examined it, the more he was satisfied that impressment at all times, and under all emergencies, could not, with safety to the naval service, be altogether
 443 444
 Sir G. Clerk  said, that government were by no means inattentive to the progress which other nations were making in the construction of particular kinds of vessels. When they saw any such vessels built, care was taken that we should have similar vessels to meet them in case of necessity.
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that the punishment was the non-fulfilment of the contract. All the flour discovered to be adulterated had been thrown on the hands of the contractors. About six thousand sacks had been so detected, and so returned. But it was hardly possible, with the utmost vigilance, to discover every deteriorated sack; and it was probable, therefore, that a great portion of adulterated or inferior flour had been introduced into the consumption of the navy.
 Sir G. Clerk  observed, that if the article manufactured proved to be of a better quality than that which could be obtained by contract, a slight difference in the price ought to be no object; but the fact was, that at the mills at Portsmouth and Plymouth, the flour was produced cheaper and better than it could be obtained by contract. The adulteration of flour intended for the use of the navy had been carried to so great an extent, that it
 445
 Sir George Clerk  observed, that in time of peace it was unnecessary to resort to impressment, but when any great national emergency arose, requiring decision and celerity, he knew of no other mode of supplying the wants of the navy; but if the hon. member for Aberdeen was prepared with any measure on the subject, it should meet with every attention from the Board at which he had the honour to sit.
 Sir George Clerk  said, that in calling the attention of the House to the navy estimates, he meant to confine himself to the differences between those of the present and of the past year. The difference in the total amount was not more than 10,000 l. l. 438 l. l. l. l. l.
 Sir John Wrottesley  thought, that the system of promotion, which was conducted in the navy upon principles unknown in every other department of the state, was liable to great objection. In the army, no new commission could issue until a vacancy occurred. So in the civil departments of the country, no clerk could be promoted until there was a higher situation vacant in his office. But, in the navy, promotions could be made to any extent, as, in point of fact, though not exactly in point of form, a man might be made captain without having any ship to command. Indeed, a lord of the Admiralty had no limitation, except his conscience, to his power of taxing the country, by promoting inferior officers.
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that the hon. member for Aberdeen and himself were friendly to the same measures, and only differed in their means of adopting them. The hon. member wanted to cut down our naval establishment; but he could not agree with him in thinking that by husbanding our resources now, we could employ them to a better purpose when occasion required. On the contrary, he was firmly of opinion, that our best means of giving any country that might oppose us a black eye, was to show our capability to inflict it. Let the House look at what America was in 1783, and what she is in 1827; and then the question would naturally occur, whether it would be wise or safe to reduce a single frigate—whether it would be politic to cut off a single little finger from the body of the state.
 440
 Sir J. Yorke  said, that the hon. member for Aberdeen might be assured that the Board of Admiralty, as well as the other departments of the state, had fully inquired what were the exigencies of the state and what its expenditure, before they prepared their estimates, and that they had shaped them as low as was consistent with the honour and safety of the country.
 Sir J. Yorke  thought the gallant officer exercised more anxiety, and was more nervous on the subject, than was altogether necessary. There was no question that required more to be thoroughly probed
 442
 Sir J. Yorke  did not think it necessary that we should continue to build very large vessels, or that we ought, in that respect, to imitate the Americans, who were constructing vessels of such a size that it would require a crew of Patagonian chaps of some eight feet and a half high to navigate them. It had often fallen to his lot to differ from his gallant friend, but he did so most widely on the subject of the experiment made of cutting down a seventy-four, and making it a kind of vessel which he hardly knew how to describe. The upper deck was cut down. The officers were obliged to go down a deck lower, and the men still lower; and in this state, without her proper complement of men, she was sent on a broiling hot station, where the thermometer was generally at ninety-six. This change was made at an enormous expense, all of which came out of the 1,500,000 l.
 Sir Robert Wilson  regretted that the right hon. gentleman, in proposing this
 434
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that although he must decline giving any answer as to the nature of the measure which government intended to submit to the House, he had no objection to say that the course of proceeding which it was at present intended to adopt was, to move resolutions in a committee of the whole House, which resolutions would contain the plan in detail. If these resolutions should be agreed to, then the intention was, that they should be printed for the use of the members, and be re-committed on a future day, that gentlemen might have an opportunity of giving this important subject the fullest possible consideration.
 Mr. Warburton  was of opinion, that it the question were put to the merchants and ship-owners, whether the system of impressment were injurious or otherwise, they would, one and all, protest against it, The shipping interest was materially affected by it; for what could be a greater hardship on the part of the owners, than that the men who worked their vessels should be taken out of them, after perhaps a long and hazardous voyage, on their arrival in the chops of the Channel? The whole system of impressment was degrading to the country, and destructive of that free spirit for which British seamen were distinguished. He was sure that the people of Great Britain would sooner submit to additional taxation, if no other means could be found by which the system of naval impressments might be abolished.
 Sir Byam Martin  utterly denied that the naval service was unpopular. As a
 454
 Mr. Alderman  Wood urged the necessity of introducing some regulations respecting impressment, and adverted to various regulations on the subject, which had been adopted by the Corporation of London during the war.
 Sir C. Forbes  said, he had heard, that such was the desire of the men engaged in the shipping of the East India company to enter into his majesty's service, that the court of directors had made application to the Admiralty to prevent it. He was one of the last men who would stand up for unnecessary punishments at sea or on shore. He had known some instances of excessive punishment on board ship, which he would not particularize; because, happily, there was an end to such tyrannical proceedings. It was due to lord Exmouth to say that he had introduced regulations on the East India station, which had since been adopted in the whole navy. It was now no uncommon thing for a man of war to make a long voyage, without the occurrence of a single punishment. Had such a circumstance ever taken place on board an Indiaman? If punishments were complained of on board men of war, how much more objectionable must they be on board merchant-ships. But in some cases they were absolutely necessary. If the punishments on board men of war, and the punishments on board merchant-ships were compared, the latter would be found to be the more excessive. The condition and treatment of the sailor on board of a king's ship had of late years been considerably improved; and his majesty's service was now looked to by seamen as most desirable. With regard to impressment the judicious application of a bounty would always ensure a supply of volunteers for the navy, without resorting to a measure which was generally condemned. Bounties were given to induce soldiers to enter the service; and why should they not also be offered as an inducement to man our fleets? Much as
 455
 Mr. Lombe  conceived that there must be something wrong in the system pursued by our navy, otherwise the sailors
 452
 Mr. Hume  wished to state the result of the inquiries which he had made on the subject. It was generally admitted, that the service of the navy was less laborious, and that the men had less labour, better food, better regulations, and more advantages, than in the merchant service. They stated, that it was not the inferiority of the wages to the wages in the merchant service of which they complained, for that was compensated by pensions. Thousands of seamen had been examined, and they one and all declared, that their aversion to the service arose from the discipline to which they were subjected. That such discipline was unnecessary had been proved in various cases. In the Bulwark of 74 there had not been a single corporal punishment inflicted for eighteen months. The seamen were dissatisfied that a commander had it in his power to order the infliction of a summary punishment which degraded the individual for ever, and that there was no redress. To impressment they did not object on an emergency. But they objected to being torn from their families by impressment, and then kept in the service for life. Whenever the urgency of the public service required it the seamen had no objection to take their turn; but they wished for the establishment of some regulation to prevent their being detained after the emergency had ceased to exist. One great objection to impressment was the expense which it occasioned in tenders, &c.; for the moment a sailor was pressed, he became a prisoner, under a guard, and was divested of all the rights of an Englishman. He was satisfied that the number of desertions which took place during the late war, in consequence of the dis-
 453
 Mr. Fyler  contended, that impressment was not only contrary to the spirit of the British constitution, but a disgrace and opprobrium to the British nation. The resolutions were agreed to.
 Sir E. Knatchbull,  in presenting a Petition against any alteration in the Corn-Laws, took occasion to ask the right hon. Secretary opposite in what mode government intended to proceed, in bringing forward the question. He expressed his deep regret that the consideration of it had been so long postponed; for, if the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs was too unwell to bring it forward speedily, it might have been done by the President of the Board of Trade. The subject was of the greatest importance, and the public mind was intensely interested in it. If the matter should, how-. ever, be brought forward at the time announced, he wished to be informed what was the course which the government meant to adopt? Did they intend to proceed by bill? or was it their intention to refer the matter to a committee of the whole House?
 Sir E. Owen  contended, that no men were punished on board ship who did not misbehave themselves, and that sailors were never put in irons except in cases of gross misconduct. Gentlemen, in debating upon this subject, argued upon exceptions just as if they were rules. Whenever the infliction of severe punishment came to the knowledge of the Admiralty, investigation was ordered into the circumstances which had occasioned it, and if they were not deemed adequate, the officer ordering the infliction was visited with severe reprehension. He denied that the punishment inflicted in the navy degraded the character of the men. Sailors often admitted the justice of the sentence, after it had been carried into execution. Not only the offence, but the previous character of every man was considered, when he was brought up to the gangway. He would venture to say, that when offences committed at sea were to be punished, the captain being the only indifferent person on board, was the person best qualified to judge of the degree of punishment which ought to be meted out. The offences ordinarily committed by sailors were cither against their officers or against each other. If, then, the offenders were to be tried cither by their officers or by their comrades, they must be tried by the very parties whom their misconduct injured. As a proof of the evil consequences likely to arise from placing the punishment in the hands of the officers, he stated that whilst he was captain, he had felt himself called upon, in almost every case where a man had been tried by court-martial, to diminish the punishment which it inflicted, by full three parts. Much had been said of impressment; but he was convinced that no pecuniary reward would be found an adequate substitute in case of emergency. It
 456
 Sir G. Clerk  replied, that the greater part of the packets alluded to were hired vessels, the crews of which were not under military law. The removal had taken place in consequence of the great length of time which the vessels were detained at New York. Their men had not deserted into the American navy, but had been induced by high wages—a dollar a day—to work at unloading the ships in the harbour.
 Sir George Clerk  contended, that the view which hon. members seemed to take of the system of impressment was founded on erroneous reasoning. It was only in cases of peculiaremergency that this mode of raising men for the service was resorted to. A sufficient supply of seamen could always be had, without having recourse to the system complained of; but the House should bear in mind, before it insisted too strongly on its abolition, that there were circumstances in which it might be necessary to require a fleet to be manned with extraordinary despatch; which could only be accomplished by resorting to impressment. The hon. member had talked of the hardship of taking men from merchant ships on their arrival in the Channel; but, would not the merchants have much more cause of complaint, if government had not provided the means of defending their shipping from the enemy? It was to be hoped that the system of impressment would be so modified, as to strip it of its grievances; and that the liberality which the country had displayed in bestowing pensions on those sailors who had served their country would have the effect of making the service less irksome. He thought it wrong, however, to insist too strongly on putting an end to impressment altogether, particularly when it was considered that the salvation of the country might depend on the celerity with which we could command a navy.
 Sir G. Clerk  brought up the report of the committee of supply on the Navy Estimates. On the resolutions being read,
 Sir John Newport  said, he was desirous of adding his voice to those which had already been raised in that House against the present system of impressing seamen. He should never be convinced that, in this country, there was not a power to call a sufficient number of men into service whenever it might be necessary, without the exercise of that which he considered absolute tyranny. It had been shown, again and again, in that House and in numerous publications, that such means did exist; and he believed in his conscience, that until the tyrannous system to which he objected should be done away, it would operate as a drawback upon the desire which men would otherwise evince to enter the service. The consequence was, that they would be driven to other countries; and the experience of the late war with America had shown the mischievous consequences of having the enemy's ships manned and fought by British seamen. He hoped the subject would engage the serious attention of those who had the care of the British navy. The expense which it might occasion was of no consequence. He should never cease to bear testimony to this abominable hardship; and he wished that, as his voice had been raised in the earliest part of his parliamentary life against this system, so his latest effort—which could not be far distant—might be directed to rescue the men who were properly called the bulwarks of their country, from the tyranny to which they were exposed.
 Sir J. Newport :— That, then, is an additional argument against the necessity of impressment.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that it had at last become necessary that this question should be brought to some termination. Since it had been before the House, it had changed its shape so materially, that he would in the first place, briefly call the attention of the House to the different groundson which the case had been argued. Originally, it was represented by the hon. gentleman, that the whole question was, whether any commission existed that justified colonel Arthur in assuming the military command of Honduras. His noble friend asserted, in the most positive manner, that there was a commission of that nature in existence. The hon. gentleman expressed a strong suspicion, that the commission, if any existed, must have been a fabrication. This statement was certainly one of those which approached the extreme limit of debate. To the positive assertion of n. nobleman holding the responsible office of Secretary of War, he felt that he could not but give implicit confidence. The fact, however, was soon placed beyond all doubt. The commission itself was produced; and it then further appeared, that it was signed by general Fuller in 1814, and had the effect of
 466 467
 Mr. Bernal  stated that, in his opinion, the principal point was one which the right hon. gentleman had overlooked; namely, whether general Fuller had legal authority to grant the commission in question to any officer. It would be seen; by reference to the report of the trial, that the judges did not sufficiently advert to that point. The judges alluded slightly to some evidence that there had been a recognition of a local kind, as to some authority possessed by general Fuller to grant a commission of this nature. But surely it was too much that, in 1825, any uncertainty at all should exist as to so material a point. The judges shrunk from the question, instead of entering into it boldly and manfully. It was their duty, he conceived, to state expressly, whether the Crown had authority, by martial law, or by the ordinary Statutes of the land, to delegate to its commanders abroad, the power of granting commissions, like that given by general Fuller to colonel Arthur. He also thought that it was equally the duty of the right hon. gentleman to elicit from legal authority, the fact, whether such a power was possessed by the Crown. This, he trusted, was not too much to expect in 1827. On the face of the report of the trial, the point had evidently been blinked. Besides, the words of the commission in this case did not give authority to colonel Arthur to command the regular forces. The case of colonel Bradley was altogether one of great hardship, and he would take the liberty of advising' the right hon. gentleman to represent it in the highest quarter, as one well deserving of redress.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey , after some observations upon the practice of conveyances, and the facility with which they entertained any objections to a title when they might be made to form grounds of proceedings in a court of equity, expressed his surprise and regret that the learned gentleman had not moved for the appointment of a committee to investigate the state of the laws with respect to real property, rather than, by proposing a partial and unequal remedy, to disappoint the expectations formed by the public upon any thing which might emanate from a man of the learned gentleman's character and legal reputation. If, however, the learned gentleman did not move for that committee, he would himself, at an early period, propose that the whole of the laws relating to real property be subjected to the revision of a committee of the House.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, he had not the slightest doubt as to the point adverted to by the hon. gentleman. It was a great absurdity, surely, to argue, that, if any military officer commanding in chief, in
 468 pro tempore 469
 Mr. Lockhart  thought the landed interest were much indebted to the learned member, for the measure which he proposed to introduce. He could have wished that the learned member had proposed some remedy for the evil arising from outstanding terms, which created great difficulty in the perfecting of titles. At present, persons were frequently obliged to consume years in finding out the next of kin, in order to take out letters of limited administration, at a most enormous expense. There was another evil which called for a remedy. A bill in chancery was held to be notice to all the world; and if a bill in
 474
 Mr. Hume  said, he had been a long time in the House, and had endeavoured never to use language which might he unbecoming in him, or irregular as to the forms of the House. It had often been
 471
 Mr. Hume  made some observations which were not distinctly audible, and was interrupted by
 Mr. Hume , said, that he had, on a former occa-
 461
 Mr. Hume  denied that he had fallen into any such error and confusion as the noble lord had stated. This was a case of the utmost importance in a general point of view, and was, therefore, of much more consequence than if it applied to colonel Bradley alone, although one could not but be sorry that a deserving individual should have been so used. There were three or four questions connected with this subject, which deserved the serious consideration of this House. The first was, whether the Crown really possessed the prerogative which it claimed of dismissing officers of the army in this summary and arbitrary manner. The second was, whether his majesty had, under any act of parliament, the power, by himself or his officers, to grant commission of that nature; and if they were granted, whether those who received them were not still subject to the articles of war? The military commission, from general fuller to major Arthur, was the one produced in the court of King's-bench; and the court certainly had held, that it was a sufficient authority to colonel Arthur for acting in the manner he had done. He did not deny the existence of this commission. What he said was, that a person receiving such a commission was still bound, by the articles of war, to exercise it according to the rank and seniority which he held in the army, and that he was still subject to his superior officers. This was a case provided for by a section of the articles of war, and this was a point which was required to be established by one of the papers now called for. This was quite, distinct from the question, whether the commission itself had been granted by general Fuller. In giving a commission, it was impossible that he should have the power of giving a commission contrary to the king's commission, which colonel Bradley had in his pocket, and which required him to act according to his rank and seniority. When general Fuller granted the commission to major Arthur, he could only grant it to be exercised subject to the articles of war, and the question was, whether general Fuller's commission was to be considered as paramount to that of his majesty? It had
 464 465
 Mr. Hume  expressed his conviction of the necessity of such a committee, and condemned any measure which did not put some bar to the claims of the clergy for tithes. Some of these claims were carried back four hundred and fifty years; and unless a general system of reform was introduced, they would patch without relieving those difficulties which deteriorated the value of land to the extent of four or five years' purchase. The learned gentleman's bill seemed, indeed, to be but a patch, and he agreed with the hon. member, that it would disappoint the hopes of the public.
 Mr. Hume  said, that what he meant to convoy was, that assertions having been made in that House which were not founded in fact, he had rather rely on authenticated documents than on any such assertions.
 Mr. Hume  said, he did not conceive that the noble lord was entitled to any courtesy from him; inasmuch as the noble lord had, on a former occasion, said he did not conceive himself bound to answer any question put by him, although he was ready to satisfy the House. The noble lord had no right, therefore, to expect any courtesy from him, after having on that occasion so notedly declined acting as a gentleman. [Cries of "Order, order."]
 Mr. Shadwell , in reply, declared himself willing to lend the benefit of any little experience which he might possess, to any measure which the House might adopt towards a reformation of the law of real property; but he thought they ought not to reject the remedy of one grievance, because they could not obtain their wishes with regard to all. Men differed with respect
 475
 Mr. Shadwell  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill relative to the landed interest of the country, and to what he conceived to be a grievous imposition on their property. The object of the proposed bill was particularly as to the duration of time within which Writs of Right, or real actions, as they were called might be brought, after the period by which the ordinary remedies were limited had ceased. A principal ingredient in the comfortable enjoyment of real property was a secure and unassailable title; but the effect of a writ of right being practically to hold that enjoyment in jeopardy for a great number of years, it was found necessary, at a very early period of our history, to abridge the period within which this writ could be sued out. The first act of the legislature in which they were mentioned was the statute of Morton, made in 1236, in which it was enacted, that, no such writs should be brought for causes which had occurred since the reign of Henry 2nd, that was since the year 1185. In the revolution of time, this period of forty-six years was extended, and, by the first statute of Westminster, made in the first year of Edward 1st, that was in 1275, it was re-enacted, that no writ of right should be brought where the cause of action had arisen since the reign of Richard 1st, or 1199, thus making the period of limitation seventy-six years. The law then remained unaltered until the 32nd Henry 8th, when, in 1540, it
 472 473 primâ facie
 The Speaker  said, it was the duty of the person who occupied the situation in which the House had done him the honour to place him, to take care that whatever irregularity hon. members might be betrayed into in the warmth of debate, should be rectified, and that any expressions which might be disrespectful to the House, and painful to 'the feelings of individual members, should be explained and retracted. He had understood the hon. member to say, that all he intended to convey by his observation was, that authenticated instruments laid before the House were better evidence than any assertion that could be made in that House, inasmuch as those assertions might be founded upon the particular construction put upon these documents, or the particular inference drawn from them by the persons who made the assertion. If such were the meaning of the hon. gentleman, no imputation was cast upon any individual in that House; and all that could be inferred from the hon. member's observation was, that different persons might form different judgments of the same document. Such an explanation must, he was sure, be satisfactory to the noble lord, although it was evident that the noble lord did not, in the first instance, put the same construction upon the hon. member's meaning as he (the Speaker) had done. With respect to the last observation of the hon. member, he was quite sure that the hon. member must himself feel that it was highly disorderly; and he was satisfied that the hon. member could not have deliberately intended to make it.
 Lord Palmerston  repeated his inquiry, whether the hon. member's allusion was meant to apply personally to him.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the hon. member had twice before brought the case of colonel Bradley's dismissal from the service under the consideration of the House. On both occasions, he (lord P.) had stated to the House the grounds on which the military advisers of the Crown had recommended his majesty to dismiss colonel Bradley. The facts of the case were these: colonel Bradley had taken upon himself to question the military command exercised by major Arthur, at Honduras, and not content with submitting his doubts to the authorities competent to solve them, he had chosen to solve them himself, and by his own act deposed major Arthur. This was considered to be an act of mutiny, which it was quite impossible could be passed over. The military advisers of the Crown had founded their opinion of the propriety of removing colonel Bradley from the service, not on the representations of major Arthur alone, but also upon colonel Bradley's own representations, contained in his letters to the commander-in-chief. Colonel Bradley, however, not contented with the decision to which the advisers of the Crown had come, carried the case into a court of justice. He had rested his case there, on the ground that he had been illegally confined by major Arthur, inasmuch as he possessed no competent military authority to confine him. It would be perceived, that the case, in the court of law, did not rest on the same grounds as those which influenced the military advisers of the Crown; for the propriety of colonel Bradley's conduct
 462 l. 463
 Lord Palmerston , who wished to inquire whether the hon. member, in stating, that assertions had been made in that House which were not founded in fact, meant the observation to apply personally to him.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  rose, in pursuance of a notice which he had given last session, to move for the renewal of the Emigration Committee. He said he was anxious to stale in the outset, that whatever details he might now think it proper to enter into relative to the proceedings of the late committee, he did so merely as the chairman of that committee, and not as presuming to say any thing to the House of a definite nature relative to the intentions of government upon the subject. Perhaps it would be a convenient mode for him to inform the House of the circumstances which led to the appointment of that committee. In the year 1823, it was determined to try the experiment of sending a few individuals from the southern parts of Ireland to the province of Upper Canada—not from any expectation that the small emigration which then took place could produce any sensible effect upon the superabundant population of the south of Ireland, but merely for the sake of having before them the effect of an experiment tried upon a small scale, before they ventured upon a plan of emigration upon a large one. In the committee on
 476 477 l l 478 479 480 481 482 l 483 l l l l l s l l l l 484 l l l l l l s 485 486 487 488 s d l s d 489 l
 Mr. Baring  observed, that whoever had listened to the able speech of the hon. Secretary opposite must be aware, that it was not proposed to do any thing specific in this matter, without its coming under the consideration of the House. Whatever the fancies, then, that any particular gentleman might have, there was no reason to fear that they would be carried into effect without the consent of the House.
 502 503 504 505
 Mr. W. Horton  observed, that the restrictions to which the hon. member alluded were removed.
 Mr. Baring  in continuation observed, that if something like a bounty were given to captains of ships conveying emigrants, it might operate as a stimulus to their exertions to promote the comfort and convenience of those whom they conveyed. Some suitable preparations should also be made to provide for the reception of the emigrants on arriving at their destination. Care should be taken that they should be sent with all convenient facility to whatever settlement they were intended for, otherwise a great deal of inconvenience might arise. In Quebec, for instance, which contained a limited population, the introduction of a large number of emigrants might create a serious injury. The means of conveying persons up the country were of late considerably improved, and some method could most likely be adopted, by which emigrants could be removed tip the country without inconveniencing the residents. Preparations should also be made for the reception of the emigrants when they arrived at their final destination. Without some precautions of the nature he suggested, considerable confusion and inconvenience would, in all likelihood, occur. The Cape of Good Hope, and the new Spanish colonies afforded facilities for emigration, if the same precautions were observed there that he had just suggested. The hon. gentleman concluded by observing, that the country was very much indebted to the zeal and talents displayed by the hon. Secretary for the colonies in bringing forward the present motion.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he felt anxious, in consequence of the personal reference which the hon. gentleman had made to him, to explain his views and feelings with respect to the important subject now
 506 507 508 509
 Mr. Wilmot Horton , in reply, said, that honourable members who had come down to that House, and attacked his plans, had evidently not read the printed report, upon which his measures were founded. Before he answered the attack made upon him by the hon. member for Bristol, he begged leave to notice an observation made by the hon. member who had just sat down, who had contrasted his opinion with those of his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department. He did not see that there was any difference of opinion between him and his right hon. friend. He might, individually, entertain opinions in detail, different from those of his right hon. friend, but, upon the general policy of emigration, he agreed with his right hon. friend, that it would be highly advantageous to the country and to the emigrants, and that the best means of securing the greatest benefit, advantage, and comfort, for them, could be ascertained only in a committee. He begged to remind the hon. members who were opposed to his plans, that there was a tribunal without, as welt as within, the walls of that House, and by that tribunal, the tribunal of public opinion, he had no objection to have his plans, and his arguments in support of them, as well as the arguments of the hon. member, judged. As the hon. member for Aberdeen had spoken of "sound principles," he would state to the House something which had passed between him and that hon. member. That hon. member had told him, upon a former occasion, that his plans were contrary to "sound principles;" and, in support of his statement, he had quoted the authority of a well-known writer on Political Economy, Mr. M'Culloch. Now, would the hon. member give him credit in future for sound principles, when he told him that he had drawn up thirty questions upon this subject with care and attention; that they had been submitted one by one to Mr. M'Culloch, and that Mr. M'Culloch had answered them in a manner perfectly accordant to the view which he (Mr. Horton) had taken of them in that House?
 512 l 513
 Mr. Batley  agreed with the hon. member for Corfe Castle in thinking the measure impolitic. It might also have the additional inconvenience of bringing the privileges of the House in contact with a court of law.
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  observed, that the expenses incidental to getting private bills through the House were enormous; and, instead of increasing them, some means ought to be devised for reducing them. He was of opinion that the debate ought to be adjourned.
 Colonel Torrens  said, that having given great consideration to the subject of emigration, and believing emigration, as a general measure, to be capable of conferring the most extensive benefits upon this empire, he naturally felt desirous to reply to some of the observations which had been that night urged, upon his side of the House, on the present question. Instead of deprecating emigration, as some hon. gentlemen had clone, and in no very measured terms, he was convinced that all those who had reasoned this great question, upon sound and intelligent principles, must perceive that it was calculated to work almost unlimited advantage to Great Britain, and that for the evils of that country which had just been touched upon, it offered the only efficient remedy. The hon. member for Wexford had told the House that, for want of employment in their native country, the poor labourers of Ireland were compelled to ship themselves hither; that on arriving here, they discovered a redundancy of hands offering for agricultural labour, and were, therefore, obliged to return back to Ireland, where, of necessity, they fell into the most abject state of pauperism and want. Now, could any fact prove more strongly than this, that, if it was possible to obviate this hard necessity, these people ought not to be bandied backwards and forwards, between the two countries, like miserable shuttlecocks, abandoned to their own wretchedness? Another hon. member was of opinion, that British capitalists and British farmers should settle among them, and endeavour to give employment to the unfortunate population of that country. But that hon. gentleman ought to know, that in Ireland there was already a great redundancy of that population employed in agricultural labour; that in point of fact, twice the number of agricultural labourers which were employed in England, failed in Ireland to raise the same amount of produce. 493 494 495
 Mr. Brownlow , though somewhat disappointed with the statements that had been that evening made by the lion. Secretary near him, felt considerably gratified that, hitherto, whatever objections had been taken to the measure recommended by that hon. gentleman, applied only to the details, and not to the principle of the measure. That principle was left entirely untouched; namely, the relief of the not merely excessive, but vastly superabundant, population of Ireland. This superabundance was general, and not confined to the mountains and waste lands only, which the hon. member for Wicklow recommended that they should be employed to cultivate instead of being conveyed to eat bread and to earn money in America. But, in the former case, where was the bread to be had, or the money to be found to support these poor people during their employment? The gravamen of this case was, that thousands and hundreds of thousands, nay, he might say, two-thirds of the people of Ireland, were unemployed. The hon. member for Bristol had objected, that the hon. Secretary's measure was not the right one. Now, he would admit that the details of the measure were very important, and might involve the inexpediency of the whole measure itself, and it would be very well to consider them, when they should have been brought before the House. But after all that had been said on this subject, it was a little too hard for the House to be trying details which had not yet come under their notice. The hon. Secretary was not now calling on the House to approve or support any specific plan; nor did he mean, as an hon. member seemed to apprehend, to kill Irish emigrants with salt pork, boiled beef and plum-pudding. All that the hon. Secretary had said, in effect, was—"Our experiment of 1823 succeeded to a certain degree. Give me a committee, and let us prepare a plan of emigration, such as, upon all considerations, shall appear most likely to be successful." For his part, he (Mr. Brownlow) was much obliged to the hon. Secretary for having brought forward the question. In the first place, that fact alone savoured of doing something for Ireland. He could not help thinking, that, though a flood of light had lately poured, in upon
 498 499 d d d d d d 500 a priori, 501
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the House could not be considered to be taken by surprise, as the measure had already been discussed twice. He understood also, that it had been agreed to in its present shape, by those gentlemen who, on the former occasions, objected to its adoption. He was anxious that the measure should be speedily disposed of, as he understood there were several reports ready to be brought up, and that in one of them an appeal was to occur. As the resolution did not possibly impose any grievance, but merely specified the mode in which a favour was to be granted, he was determined to take the sense of the House on the question.
 Mr. Littleton  said, that the machinery of the resolutions which he had
 514 515 l l
 Mr. Lombe  rose to second the amendment. He said, that if the hon. gentleman opposite would come down to that House with a fair and honest scheme of colonization, he should have his cordial support; but this was a mere delusion. As to Ireland, there was but one course to be pursued—Catholic emancipation must be granted. It was said that the present distresses of that country were owing to want of employment, and that there was no capital to furnish that employment. But why was there no capital? Because of the disturbances which existed there; and which would prevent any capitalist in his senses from risking his property in that country. Remove the disabilities under which the Catholics laboured, and these disturbances would no longer exist. He was sure he spoke the sentiments of every honest Irishman when he said, that if these disabilities were removed, the people of Ireland would become good and peaceful subjects; and the English capitalist might then settle there in perfect security. This would certainly be the result. He trusted that the great question of Catholic emancipation would pass that House in a few days; and if it did not, he hoped he should live to see the day when the people of Ireland would come in a body to the doors of that House, and
 492
 Mr. G. Bankes  was anxious that the question, which was of considerable importance, should be postponed to another night, in order that it might be properly discussed. In his opinion, the objections which were raised against the resolution which called on parties to enter into recognizances, applied with equal strength to the present proposition. If a man was poor, he could not enter honestly into a bond for 500 l l 516 l l
 Mr. Bright  considered that this was a practical question, and had been dealt with too theoretically. He had, no doubt, that emigration, on a large scale, would be of great benefit to the country; but he thought that the measures pursued by government, with respect to emigration to British America, were not those which ought to have been pursued. The hon. Secretary had, in effect, given the House to understand, that his schemes of emigration had perfectly succeeded. He had intimated, that the experiment of 1823 had had every success; but in this point he entirely disagreed with him. The hon. gentleman had talked about some strange multiplication of property in the case of one hundred and twenty persons settled in Upper Canada, who had taken out only 20 l l 496 l 497
 Mr. James Grattan  objected to the motion, as calculated to lead the people of Great Britain, and especially those of Ireland, astray. Emigration was the hobby, if he might so call it, of the hon. gentleman opposite; but it had been proved by experience, that emigration, upon any extended scale, would not do; and, in the mean time, hopes were excited among the distressed people. They imagined that a plan was in preparation for their removal, and that money was going to be granted for their aid; while the hon. gentleman went on, from session to session, appointing his committee, discussing projects which the country had no means of realizing, and describing scenes of comfort and amelioration which, by no probability could come to pass. By the calculation of colonel Cockburn, the military experiment made in 1816 had cost the country, for each settler, at the rate of 20 l l l 491
 Mr. Hume  contended, that to employ 20,000,000 l 510 l l l l 511
 Mr. S. Bourne  thought that all scruples on legal points might be silenced, when it was recollected, that the resolution was drawn up by the Attorney-general. Unless this resolution was carried, the other measure of the hon. member would be incomplete.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, and addressed the Committee as follows:— Sir; whenever parliament has been called upon on former occasions, to consider what provision ought to be made for the due maintenance of the station and dignity of different members of the royal family, the consideration of the degree of proximity which any individual of that family might have to the throne, has always been one of the most important
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that that grant was only applicable in case of the duke's death.
 Colonel Wood  expressed his regret, that the noble lord and the hon. gentleman should have opposed this motion, which he had hoped would have passed unanimously. He could not by any means see what injustice was done the country, by placing the heir presumptive upon the footing of his predecessor. Nothing was, he knew, more unpleasant than to provoke individual comparisons; yet it was almost unavoidable upon such an occasion as this. He would then say, that either the income granted to the late duke of York, thirty years ago, was most extravagant, or there could not be any impropriety in the present claim? Why was 39,000 l. l. 528
 Mr. Brougham  expressed his regret at being obliged to concur in the view taken of this question by his noble friend, and the other hon. friends who had preceded him. No man could be more willing than he was, to lend his humble assistance to every measure which was calculated to support, on a just and splendid scale, the state and dignity of the royal family; and if any case of exigency could be made out to justify the present claim, he should have no hesitation to assent to it. But, had ministers attempted to press a case of exigency? No. The question rested plainly on this simple statement—that the melancholy event of the demise of the duke of York had imposed upon the duke of Clarence, as a consequence, the necessity of incurring a greater expenditure, in maintaining his rank, than he had been previously called upon to incur. Where was the proof of this necessity? Where had it been shown, that his royal highness had any estate or dignity necessarily to support as heir presumptive, which he had not equally to maintain in the lifetime of his brother? If it could be shown that his royal highness's present income was insufficient for his proper and becoming scale of living, and that it was fit and reasonable it should be increased now that he had become heir presumptive, then the case would be different; but the chancellor of the Exchequer had made out no such case: he had not even attempted to state it: his claim was therefore groundless, and must he considered as untenable. He had said, indeed, that on former occasions of settling the income of the royal family, regard had been had by parliament to the consideration, whether or not the prince of the blood was in the immediate succession to the throne. That assertion was incorrect; for no such distinction had been marked out on the occasions alluded to. Certainly, none had been taken in 1806, when the 6,000 l. 530 531 l. l. 532
 Mr. Secretary Peel  admitted, that, there was no subject so unpleasant as one like this, which referred to circumstances somewhat of a personal nature, and particularly when they applied to the condition of the royal family. When he was called upon to justify the proposed grant, he felt the difficulty, if not the impossibility, of demonstrating that 9,000 l. l. 533 l. 534 à fortiori l. l. l. l. l. l. 535 l. l. l. l. l., 536
 Mr. Fergusson  said, he had not the honour of being known to many members of that House, but he believed, that such hon. gentlemen as did know him, would admit that he was the last person who would be likely to court favour or propitiate power, by giving his acquiescence to any measure that he did not think himself conscientiously bound to support. He felt himself, therefore, bound to declare, that he must vote for the present grant, because he was convinced that the situation of his royal highness was materially changed, and that he could no longer remain in his present state of retirement. The simple question was, whether they
 540
 Mr. Maberly  rose to oppose the Speaker's leaving the chair. He was, he said, induced to do so, principally for the same reason that he had slated on a former evening, when the Navy Estimates were brought before the House; namely, an unwillingness to concur in voting any Estimates, until the House should be put in possession of what were the probable resources of the country, from which these Estimates were to be supplied. The receipts and expenditure should be laid before the House, and an opportunity should be afforded of comparing them with the amount of the estimated receipt and expenditure contained in the statements of the chancellor of the Exchequer. If this amount was laid before the House, he apprehended there would be found a great defalcation, from the expectation of reduced expenditure, which the right hon. gentleman had, from time to time, held out to the House and the country. With a view of ascertaining what comparison the real expenditure and income of 1826 bore to the estimated one of the chancellor of the Exchequer, he had moved for an
 542 l., l. l. l. 
 
 Nett income paid into the Exchequer £54,894,989 10 3 
 Nett expenditure 53,885,541 2 2¾ 
 Surplus of income over expenditure 1,009,448 8 0¼ l. l. l. l. 543 l. l. l. l., 
 
 Expenditure from the Chancellor's Statement. 
 For the Interest and management of the Public Debt. £27,117,186 
 The Army 7,747,000 
 Navy 6,135,000 
 Expenditure according to the Printed Account. 
 For the Interest and Management of the Public Debt. £27,245,750 
 The Army 8,297,360 
 Navy 6,540,634 544 l. l. l. l. l. 545
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was impossible for him to answer all the points upon which the hon. member had touched, because he could not give the House satisfactory information upon them, without stating at full length those particulars which he proposed to submit at no distant period. He had no hesitation in saying, that he was not now in a situation to state, with the requisite accuracy, what he conceived to be the condition of the revenue for the present year. Since he had had the honour of filling the situation in which he was now placed he had endeavoured to bring forward the financial state of the country at as early a period of the session as possible. He hoped shortly to bring it forward; but, at present, he owned he was not in a situation to do so. When he should bring it forward, he hoped to furnish a full and satisfactory explanation upon all the matters referred to by the hon. gentleman. But because he was not at that moment prepared to enter into the extensive subject, was that, he would ask, a fair reason, why a shilling should not be voted for the support of a single sailor, a single soldier, or a single artillery-man? After the House had voted their approbation of the
 546 l. l.; l. l, 547 l. l. 548 l. l. 549 l. 550 l.; l. l. l.: 551 l. l.; l.; l. l.; l. l. l. l.; l. l.; 552 l. l
 Mr. Baring  said, that if in ordinary times there had been such a defalcation in the revenue as appealed during the present year, he should have undoubtedly been of opinion, that it would be necessary for the House either to agree to the amendment of the hon. member for Aberdeen, or else to go into the committee and vote the estimates with the strictest investigation into them item by item. Judging from the general conduct of the House, he deemed himself justified in saying, that it was too inattentive to the condition of the national finances. No state that had any pretensions to freedom displayed such inattention as we did to the comparative amount of our expenditure and our means. The French minister was obliged to make a minute statement of the resources of his nation before he ventured to detail to the Chambers his plan for raising the supplies of the year; and the minister of the king of the Netherlands had absolutely had his budget thrown back upon his hands, because he had not accompanied it with a sufficient explanation of the national finances. As a general principle, he would say, that it was the duty of the House not to repose a blind confidence in ministers, but to look narrowly into the estimates which they presented to it. He recollected that in 1816, the House, after voting the estimates, found that they were greater than the situation of the country justified. It addressed the Crown in consequence, and said that the estimates were not satisfactory. Amended estimates were accordingly returned to it, in which considerable reductions were made, and those estimates were subsequently approved. Now, if the estimates of the present year had been presented to the House in circumstances similar to those of 1816, he should have said that the House would not perform its duty without adopting a similar course to that which it then pursued. Considering, however, the political demonstration which the government had recently felt itself called upon to make in Portugal, and the support which the House had given to the government on being informed of it, he was afraid that any hesitation in voting the supplies would be productive of bad effect, not only in a financial, but also in a political point of view; and he should therefore prefer going into the estimates at present, to postponing the discussion of them till the period proposed by the hon. member for Aberdeen.
 558 l. l. 559 l., l. l., l.,
 Mr. Baring  alluded to a rumour which he had heard of certain works that were going on in Lower Canada, and also of an
 564
 Sir H. Hardinge  answered, that it was necessary to form a proper dépôt in Lower Canada, where, at present, there was not a place in which they could keep a canister of powder in safety. With respect to the second point, no intention existed to form such a line of defence as the hon. member had alluded to. In the course of the year 182.5, a commission which had been sent to that country recommended that, at certain points, works should be raised; but the defence of so extensive a frontier as had been mentioned was not contemplated. There were, undoubtedly, parts of that territory which required additional defence. With respect to Halifax, for instance, it was recommended, that quarters should be provided for a body of troops, and a proper building erected for the reception of a quantity of stores. These measures appeared to be necessary; because, if an enemy turned the sea-batteries, as the place was at present situated, the town must fall into his power. Besides, as Canada was locked up during a certain period of the year, it was proper that stores should be collected in places of safety. In Upper Canada, it was intended to erect a small work on the same model, of which an estimate would be furnished. It was not intended as a  point d'appui,
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that in presenting the Ordnance Estimates to the committee, it would not be necessary for him to detain them with many observations, inasmuch as the estimates were considerably lower than they had been last year. The reductions which had been made, had not been made without great difficulty; and it would only be misleading the committee if he were to hold out to it any hope that those reductions would be permanent. The Ordnance Estimates for the present year were only 970,894 l.; l.; l. l.: l.; l. l., l., l., l.: l.; l. 561 l.; l. l.; l.; l. l. l.; l.; l. l. 562 l. l.; l. l., l. l., l. 563 l. l. l. l.
 Sir H. Hardinge  admitted, that if such a union could be made, a saving would unquestionably be effected by it. But the thing was perfectly impossible; and for this reason—the military stores, arms, &c. were kept at the Tower, and must remain there. The finance committee, it was true, mentioned the dépôt at Woolwich as sufficient; but, he was prepared to contend, that it would be necessary, under all circumstances, to keep a large quantity of stores at the Tower. If they could remove the office of the Clerk of the Ordnance to Pall-Mall, there would also be a saving; but the rooms at Pall-Mall were already filled with clerks; and therefore, if an alteration were made, a new building must be erected. Thus in the very outset, a considerable expense would be incurred.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that Canada, being an integral part of the British dominions, was as much entitled to protection as any other portion of the empire.
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that, in his opinion, this proposition ought to be considered on public grounds. The plain and simple question was this: The duke and duchess of Clarence had an income of about 30,000 l. l. 537 538
 Mr. Calcraft  observed, that it had been agreed by every gentleman, who had spoken on the subject, that this was a very painful topic. If, however, it had been so painful to every one who had addressed the committee, it was doubly so to himself, because in that discussion, he must reluctantly differ from those with whom he generally agreed. He should, therefore, proceed to state shortly the grounds upon which he concurred in the motion of the chancellor of the Exchequer. And, in the first place, he must declare that he dissented from his hon. and learned friends upon that point, which was a point of opinion only; namely, that a prince of the blood can change his situation from that of a younger branch of the royal family, to that of heir presumptive to the throne, without being involved in a great additional expenditure. He was clearly of opinion that he could not. Into the details of that increased expenditure, he would not now attempt to enter; but, if he conscientiously thought that such increased expense would be incurred by the illustrious person in question, he should not be an honest man, if he did not vote accordingly. But he did think so, and, therefore, he should, most unquestionably, concur in this vote. He had another reason for doing so. He could not dismiss all consideration of precedent on this occasion. He could not but remember, that when the late duke of York, whose death was so universally deplored, stood in the same situation as the duke of Clarence stood in now, he had an infinitely larger income than his royal highness would possess, even with the addition of the grant now in question. Nor could he forget, that the late princess Charlotte—who did not stand at the time in the same near relation to the Crown, but was merely daughter of the regent, with, undoubtedly, the probability of succession to the Throne in her favour—had an income allotted her of 50,000 l. 539 l.
 Mr. Curwen  regretted that this question had been brought forward, for nothing could be more painful to him than to give the vote which his sense of duty called upon him to give. If the country was able to afford this grant, he had no individual objection to it; but when he knew that, from one end of it to the other, the cry of distress was general, he could not, without a violation of duty, hesitate to oppose it, and he was ready to do so at once, for he required no postponement to make up his mind upon it. The circumstances of the country imperatively called for economy, and the refusal of this grant would, he hoped, be the prelude of their performing similar acts of justice to their constituents.
 Mr. John Martin  said, that the two hon. members who had last addressed the House, appeared to be quite certain that instead of this being an unpopular motion, it would meet with the unqualified approbation of the country. Now, if this were really the case, he should propose that his majesty should send another Letter to the bishops, and direct them to endeavour to raise this 9,000 l.
 Mr. Monck  concurred with his hon. friend, in his expression of pain at being obliged to oppose this motion. He had not heard a single argument from the chancellor of the Exchequer in favour of it. It was in vain to refer to the addition made to the incomes of the royal family in 1806; for that addition was expressly called for, on account of the rise in the price of all the necessaries of life. The act of 1806, therefore, furnished no precedent for such a claim as this. Were the royal family alone to have a reserved interest in the fluctuations of the price of provisions, and were the people never to have a similar chance in their favour? Willing as he was to support the due splendor and dignity of the royal family,
 529
 Mr. Hume .—Well, the money, at all events, had been granted; but he would not go into that. Could the House, he would only ask, satisfy itself that it was doing its duty in the present state of the country, in voting a grant of 9,000 l. 523 l. l. l., l. l. l. l. l. l. l., 524 525 l. l. l. 526 l. l. 527
 Mr. Hume  reminded the House, in the first place, that the duchess of Clarence had already 6,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  admitted, that the right hon. gentleman had satisfactorily explained he
 553 l.; l.; l. l. l., l. l. l.; l.; l. 554 l. l. l. l. bonâ fide l. l. l. l. l. 555 556
 Mr. Hume  said Canada was but a colony, and stood in a very different situation from Ireland or Scotland.
 Mr. Hume  said, that several hon. members had asked why he had not negatived the grant, instead of proposing that the discussion of it should be put off. He had adopted the latter course, because he had hoped that if ministers had time for consideration they would withdraw their proposition, and that to have negatived the grant would have appeared something like a reproach to the Crown. The hon. member was proceeding to make some further observations, when he was interrupted by loud cries of "Question." Upon which the House divided—For Mr. Hume's Amendment 65, Against it 167. Majority for the Grant 102.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that, looking to the whole of the estimate, there was not such a saving to the country as they had a right to expect. At the conclusion of the former peace, 18,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that the items on account of Canada amounted to no less a sum than 51,475 l. 565
 Mr. George Robinson , although he usually voted with ministers, yet felt himself bound, under the present circumstances of the country, to give his negative to the proposed grant. It was not, in his opinion, one of those exigencies which called upon them to make such a sacrifice; and without entrenching in any manner upon the respect duo to the royal family, he thought the House ought not to impose any additional burthen upon the people.
 Lord Althorp  regretted deeply that his majesty should have been advised to send down a message like the present to the House. If it could be shown, that in consequence of his change of situation, his royal highness the duke of Clarence would really be put to additional expenses, no doubt it was fit that he should be enabled to meet them; but, although he fully concurred with the chancellor of the Exchequer, that the personal virtues of the illustrious individuals concerned in questions of this description ought to form no feature in the deliberation of the
 522
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  said, he anticipated for the vote he was about to give the same severe chastisement from the hon. member for Aberdeen, which he had that night, and on a former evening, given to those who had brought forward the proposition now before the House. That hon. gentleman had characterized it in very unmeasured terms: he had charged it with profligacy, extortion, and insult. He had gone so far, even, as to declare it injurious to the shipping and manufacturing interests. Now, for his own part, he must say, that a more exaggerated statement he had never heard, nor had he ever listened to a more unnecessary display of vehement oratory. For the resolution itself, taking it independently of all exaggeration and colouring, it did strike him as being a very fair and natural proposition to be made on the part of his majesty's government, from the first moment that his royal highness succeeded to the station which he at present occupied. It had been asked, in what consisted the difference of station which his royal highness had so experienced? But he believed, that the common sense of every man in that House must instantly supply the answer to such a question; and he, for one, required no official reply upon the master. His royal highness now
 568 l. l. l. 569
 Colonel Davies  said, that considering the importance of the question under discussion, he regretted that the tone in which the noble lord had spoken, and the noise made by hon. gentlemen in leaving the House, had rendered it hardly possible for him to hear what the noble lord had said. He would confess, that it was with no little surprise that he viewed the conduct of those gentlemen by whom he was generally surrounded. When the question before the House merely concerned a common job, such as the unnecessary appointment of a junior lord of the Admiralty, which
 572 l. l. l. l., l. 573 l. l. l.
 The Marquis of Tavistock  said, that he should not discharge the duty which he owed to his constituents, or consult the real interest of the Crown itself, if he did not oppose the present motion. He would not go so far as to say, that this grant of 9,000 l.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  denied the assertion of the gallant colonel opposite, that the expenditure of the Army, Navy, Ordnance, and Miscellaneous estimates was between four and five millions more in the last year than in the year 1822. Instead of
 578 l.
 Mr. Herries  begged to say, that, though the papers were perfectly correct, yet the conclusions drawn from them by the hon. member were totally incorrect. He thought that such a deduction as that made by the hon. member would not have been again brought forward, after the explanation which his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, had given the other night upon the subject. He had made a clear distinction between the annual estimates voted by parliament for the Army, Navy, Ordnance, &c., and the sums actually expended within any particular period. It was well known, that, at the end of the year 1825, there was a severe pressure on the country; and that, in consequence, there were heavy demands for money on the Treasury for the payment of Exchequer bills. Under those circumstances, the issues had not been made for the Army and Navy, and the current payments were delayed, so that thus the demands, which were payable in December, 1825, were postponed, in order that the Exchequer, at such a crisis, might be kept as full as possible. The consequence was, that many payments which properly belonged to "1825 fell within the year 1826, indicating a large apparent expenditure in that year. Had matters gone on in the usual way, the postponement might have gone on to a certain extent, so as not to increase the apparent amount of the payments; but an armament became necessary; and it was well known, that when troops were sent abroad it was usual to pay them in advance. Thus an operation of an opposite nature took place; and,
 579
 Colonel Davies  observed, that there ought to be some explanatory appendix to the papers, to show what the fact was, and to prevent the occurrence of errors.
 Mr. Maberly  observed, that if he understood the hon. Secretary rightly, the balance-sheet, from which his hon. friend had read, was only a cash account, showing the receipts and payments that had taken place at the Exchequer; and that it ought not to be dealt with as an accurate account of the expenditure, because it might contain under the head of disbursements larger sums than parliament had voted for the year. But how did the chancellor of the Exchequer make his annual statements but from this balance-sheet? In fact, any other account was delusive, because this was the cash account. They all knew what difficulty there had been to procure the introduction of this balance-sheet. Even now the balance-sheet was not what it ought to be. In some respects it was unintelligible. It purported to be an account of the receipt and expenditure at the Exchequer; whereas it contained a number of details respecting the funded and unfunded debt. These were things which ought to be separated. If government advanced a large sum, only a part of which was repaid, that merely made a difference in our debt, and had nothing to do with the receipt and expenditure. On examining this balance-sheet it appeared, that, instead of a balance in our favour of 1,700,000 l., l. 580
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  stated, that the amount of the Army, Navy, Ordnance, and Miscellaneous services in 1822 was 16,680,000 l., l.; l.
 Lord Pulmerston  said, that when the hon. gentleman compared the expense of this branch of service with its expense in former years, it would be well if he would also look at its increased efficiency, and at the superior despatch and accuracy with which the business to which it related was performed. A great part of the expense was not optional, but resulted from the increased demands made by parliament for information on military subjects. Nevertheless, considerable reduction had taken place. In 1814, the annual charge for the Public Departments was 253,000 l.; l. 581 l. l. l. 582
 Mr. Herries  contended, that the act referred to by his noble friend fully authorised that exercise of discretion in special cases, which had been exercised in the case of Mr. Merry. He could assure the House that matters regarding retired allowances were not lightly disposed of at the Treasury. The certificates were examined, and the claims were investigated, with the utmost strictness.
 Lord Leveson Gower  did not think it necessary to trouble the House with any explanation of his reasons for supporting the grant after the question had been so fairly and ably stated by the knight of Kerry. In every expression which had fallen from that right hon. gentleman he most fully concurred; but he wished to say a few words upon the line of argument taken by the hon. member for Aberdeen. That hon. member had endeavoured to take the course which he thought best calculated to enlist upon his side the passions of the people, and to make the grant of any sum to the duke of Clarence a matter of obloquy in the eyes of a great portion of the distressed. There was, however, no period at which the hon. member might not be able to find the same reasons for opposing any, even a necessary, matter of public expenditure; and if it might be objected to such an argument, that the present grant was an unnecessary piece of expenditure, then he would answer, that the very same would be said of the most necessary. The same argument might be applied in the same manner to even the accumulation of large private fortunes; but he conceived that such appeals to the passions instead of the reasons of men were not to be justified upon any sound principles of policy.
 Sir H. Hardinge  said, that the number of military students was more than threefold the number who obtained situations from the college. The fact was, that those who were appointed from the college underwent a very severe examination, as a test of superior qualification. Those who did not obtain situations from the college, had all the facility which their family connexion and resources might give them to obtain commissions, and the service was benefited by the advantages of the education which they received at the college.
 Mr. Monck  observed, that the only question was, whether the education of these boys ought to be paid for out of the taxes. Ought the people to be taxed for the purpose of teaching those who would be quite as well, if not better, taught at the expense of their friends and relations? Let the examination, before appointment, still continue as severe as it ought to be, parents would be very glad to qualify their sons for it, in the expectation of the reward of a cadetship. Why was it necessary for the country to educate its officers any more than its physicians, its lawyers, or its divines?
 Mr. Hume  admitted that the officers of the army ought to be well educated, but not at the expense of the public. The charge for the staff of the college was no less than 6,000 l.; l. in formâ pauperis 585 l.
 Mr. Hume  was astonished, after it had been admitted that Mr. Merry had entered when not of age, and had not served the full time, that he should have been allowed to retire on the full pension. Instead of any-serious attempt being made to reduce our establishments, there appeared to be a desire to increase them. Since 1822, the civil establishment particularly had gone
 583 l.; l.
 Mr. Hume,  then it appears, that the country is saddled with a charge of 13,229 l.
 Mr. Hume  said, that no man could conscientiously say, that 6,000 l. 586 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  rose, and was proceeding to address the House, when he was inter- 566 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 567 l. l.
 Mr. Hume  understood that twenty-two clerks had been reduced in the establishment of the noble lord last year. He wished to know whether any new appointments of clerks had taken place since that reduction.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that, from the Estimates it appeared, that there was a charge for two hundred and sixteen cadets. He wished to know how many of these cadets had been appointed to commissions?
 Mr. Hume  thought, notwithstanding the explanation given by the noble lord, that the charge of Deputy-secretary to the country was extravagant. There was a retiring salary of 1,800 l. l., l., l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that he held in his hand a paper, in which a different account was given of the matter. It was signed J. C. Henries, and gave an account of the revenue and expenditure of the year ending 1st January, 1827; by which it appeared that the expenditure for the Army, Navy, Ordnance, and Miscellaneous services, was 19,344,187 l.
 Mr. Hume  observed, that on reading the items of this branch of expenditure, and comparing them with those of former years, it appeared to him that every thing was not going on right. Among other charges, there was the sum of 20,000 l.
 Mr. Hume  wished to know the precise sums.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would leave it to the comprehension of military men, how regiments of six hundred men could be more efficient than regiments of eight hundred. From what he heard, a very different account could be given of this subject. Leaving such paradoxes, he would ask, was it economical to have fifty field officers, two hundred and four captains, four hundred and eight subalterns and staff officers employed recruiting? Ministers were in the habit of talking of the preference of one system over another; they compared them in their different points, and vaunted of the superiority of recent plans. The only point which they never took into consideration was, what appeared to him to be the most essential to consider; namely, the expense. Improvements, however obvious, might be acquired at too great a cost. By the present practice, the War Department left a staff at home, with a few companies, to recruit; and, as far as he could learn, the expense of the system was well deserving of attention. So far from being economical, it was most extravagant.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he, for one, objected in the strongest manner to the great amount of the army. He objected to it in a constitutional sense; he objected to it in point of expense; and because he did not think it necessary to the exigencies of the country. He knew that he was not solitary in entertaining these objections. As the House had pledged itself to support the expedition to Portugal, to put matters to rights there, he did not mean, at the present moment, to do more than to protest against the number of our forces. He would, however, beg leave to state to the House, that when parliament had recently petitioned the Crown to reduce the public establishments, the answer from the Crown was, that all possible economy should be observed, with a view to recruit the finances and to pay off a portion of the public debt. To this ministers had made the Crown pledge itself to the country. Now, it was curious to see whether ministers had so far regarded the honour of the Crown as to act up to this pledge. When that public promise was given to the country, the
 576 l. l. l. 577 l. l.; l.; l.; l.; l. l., l. l.; l.; l. l. l.
 Mr. Ridley Colborne  deplored the present opposition to the grant, and declared that, whatever might have been the opinion of the honourable members at first, such continued and obstinate resistance would make the offer of the money come as ungraciously from the House, as its acceptance must be rendered painful to the illustrious individual for whom it was intended.
 Sir E. Carrington,  in answer to the latter part of the speech of the hon. member for Reading, observed, that, by the munificence of prelates, of statesmen, and of princes, the means of adequate education had, from the most remote periods of our history, been supplied to the professions of law, physic, and divinity. No such provision had been made for military education, until this establishment was created, and by that institution a chasm had been honourably and most properly filled up.
 Sir Alexander Hope  said, that the benefits arising from the Military College were not confined to the mere annual appoint-
 584
 Sir A. Hope  said, he thought the cadets ought to be educated at the public expense, because the public called upon the parents and friends of those young men to devote them to the service of the country; and because those young men, abandoning the comforts of a private life, or lucrative professions, were bound, by the pledge of their parents, to undergo the hardships of the military profession, and to brave the horrors of various climates.
 Lord Palmerston  produced a return of the number of students admitted into the Military College, since its first establishment in 1802. The total number was two thousand nine hundred and twenty-eight; of which one thousand three hundred and twenty had received commissions in the king's service, and one hundred and twenty in that of the East India company. The complete defence furnished by his gallant friend rendered it needless for him to say another word regarding the public utility of the establishment.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the estimates of the present year differed very little, either in the number of men or the amount of the expenditure, from those of last year; but, as there were some variations in the details, it might be necessary for him to explain them shortly to the House. The total number of men in the estimate of last year was eighty-six thousand, seven hundred and sixty-four. The number of the present year was eighty-six thousand, eight hundred and three, making an increase of thirty-nine men, for the service of the present year. The charge for the last year was 6,602,135 l. l. l. s. l., l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. s. d. l. l., l. s. d. l. s. d. l. 571 l. s. d. l. l. l. s. l. l. s. d. l. l. s. d. l., l., l. l.
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the gallant member was mistaken with respect to the number of recruits. Of the fifteen thousand men, four thousand were to supply an additional force, and the number intended to answer the wear and casualties of the service was only eleven thousand. Taking deaths, desertions, and discharges, into consideration, it would be by no means more than would probably be wanted. With reference to the system of recruiting, as far as his experience wont, he could positively assert that the present system was eminently adapted to ensure the efficiency of the service. In the first place, by the present system of recruiting, there was no longer a multitude of officers that used to be detached from their regiments, wasting their time, to the loss and disadvantage of the public. Instead of nine hundred officers so detached by the old practice, there were now not even one hundred. By the present system, no regiment could detach more than one officer at a time, and no officer so detached could be absent from his regiment more than two years. The absent officer was not allowed to have under his command a single man belonging to his own regiment; so that the regiment was left efficient and complete.
 574
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the resignation of that gentleman was certainly a spontaneous one on his part. He had made the application to him (lord P.), and, in consideration of his merits and services, he had no hesitation in favourably recommending that application to the Lords of the Treasury. It was true that Mr. Merry had not been half a century in the particular situation from which he retired; but it was due to that gentleman to say, that on the retirement from the office of Mr. Moore in 1809, Mr. Merry sustained, and sustained voluntarily, a loss of 800 l.
 Lord Palmerston  replied, that sixteen cadets had been appointed without purchase, and twenty-two by purchase.
 Mr. W. Horton  observed, that measures would be taken to make it imperative on the clergy td co-operate in the making of roads, and in carrying other improvements into effect. The lands in question were the properly of the church of England, as secured to that church by the Canada act of 1791.
 Mr. Baring  said, he entertained strong objections to the appropriation of land in Canada specifically to the church of England; not because he objected to the church of England, for he was as zealous a member of that church as any gentleman in that House, but because he was anxious that the House should not sow the seeds of that very dissention which we now so lamentably deplored in Ireland. If we could contrive some means to make all the people of Canada church of England men, he should have no objection to such an expedient; but if the fact were, that the church of England had taken but slight root in Canada, and that the mass of Protestant Christians in that country were of different persuasions, by appropriating money and land to the church of England in Canada, we should be laying a foundation for future dissention, and for the separation of the colony from the mother country. The Attorney-general for Upper Canada had been examined on the subject of these church Reserves; and, in answer to a question, as to how many members of the legislative assembly in Upper Canada were church of England men, his answer was "two, he being one of the two." Now, he did not know of how many members the legislative assembly consisted; but it could scarcely be a number of which two formed, any considerable portion. He
 588
 Mr. W. Horton  observed, in explanation, that whether the distribution of lands to which the hon. member alluded, was right or wrong, it Was done under the express authority of, and in obedience to, the provisions of the Canada Act, and could not, therefore now be called in question. All they proposed to do at present was, to dispose of a certain portion of those lands, in order that they might render the remainder more productive. With respect to what had fallen from an hon. member upon the subject of the expense of emigration, he begged to observe, that there were many parishes in England most willing to pay half the expense of the removal of their paupers in that way, without any hope of being repaid.
 Mr. Warburton  thought, that in these times, it would have been better to make appropriations of land for the diffusion of education, rather than for the support of the church. The act of parliament reserved one-seventh part of the lands for the maintenance of the established church; but he wished to know whether it was not the intention of government to dispose of the produce of some of those lands, to educate the poor emigrants they were about to convey to Canada. It was not too late to revise the act; and he would most earnestly recommend them to do so, as well as to adopt some measures with respect to the importation of Canada corn. He would remind them of the expressions used by a great philosopher, a great political economist, and the founder of a great empire, the celebrated Dr. Franklin, in his interviews with a noble lord. That great man, in speaking of the colonists, observed, "That if they were to sow and to reap, and yet not be allowed to ship, the sooner the government of this country sent out transports to bring the people home again,
 589
 Mr. Stanley  begged to observe, that in giving his unqualified approbation to the measure proposed, he must be understood as being perfectly aware of the nature of the property allotted to the church, and of being as sensible as any man of the monstrous absurdity of attempting to support what was called the established church, but which, in fact, never would be established. The present sale he understood to be for the improvement of the remainder of the lands given to the church; and as such it had his approval. It left, too, the question respecting the propriety of such grant precisely where it was; for the act of 1791, under the authority of which it was made, remained just as open to revision or amendment after that sale as it was before.
 Mr. Waithman  condemned, in strong terms, the plan of giving lands in the colonies to any company whatever. He feared that, in such cases, the property was only turned to the purpose of enriching a few individuals, while the mass of those who were seduced by their promises and representations became the victims of their credulity. He had known a great many instances of that kind, and actually seen a person who had made his way back to England from Colombia, after being defrauded of money he had paid for land, and been disappointed in all the prospects held out to him. Many of the unfortunate settlers sent out by companies were, in fact, scattered over the country, instead of being settled down in the places which were promised to them.
 Mr. W. Horton  complained of the kind of declamation used by the hon. alderman upon the subject. Nothing could be more absurd than to say all companies were unworthy, because the members of one had been guilty of deceit.
 Mr. Dawson , (of Louth), condemned the whole project, as useless and impolitic. They now proposed to sell one part of the land for the improvement of the other;
 590
 Mr. B. Cooper  rose to propose the resolution of which he had given notice, respecting Private Committees. The adoption of this resolution he thought necessary to give effect to the excellent regulations prepared by the hon. member for Staffordshire, to whom the House and the country were much indebted for having taken up the subject. To render those regulations more complete, the privilege of voting on Private Committees should not be allowed to every member of the House. The consequence of such a privilege was, that members who did not attend the committee, and therefore knew nothing of what passed in it, were induced by the solicitation of friends to go and vote at the termination of the inquiry. Such a proceeding was manifestly unjust and mischievous, and ought not to be allowed to continue. It also happened, that some members who had a great deal of local information upon the particular subject of inquiry, were often omitted in the appointment of the original committee; but it was not, however, his intention to deprive a committee of the advantage of their assistance. He would only restrict them to the necessity of a special application to the House, to allow their names to be added to the committee. 591
 Mr. Mundy  seconded the motion. The greatest inconvenience and mischief had, he said, arisen from members voting on private bills who had not attended to the details in the committee. He had himself on one occasion been requested to vote on a private bill, respecting which he knew nothing whatever. He refused to do so, and had expressed what he could not consider an improper indignation at such a request having been made to him. It was, in his opinion, an insult to a member, to ask him to vote under such circumstances.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  moved for leave to bring in a bill to authorise the Sale of Clergy Reserves in Upper and Lower Canada. The object of the measure was, he said, to enable the corporative of the clergy in Canada to dispose, by private contract, of the lands reserved for the clergy in 1791; with respect to which it was originally arranged that they were to be disposed of to the Canada Company. By alienating a part of the provision appropriated to the clergy by the Canada act of 1791, the value of the remaining portion would be improved, and the country relieved from the expense annually voted for the supply of the Protestant Clergy in that part of the world.
 Mr. Stanley  supported the motion. The short acquaintance he had recently had with the provinces of Canada enabled him to state, that whatever might be the differences of political and party feeling in that country—and there was no place where party feeling ran higher—no person entertained a difference of opinion as to the pernicious tendency of the Clergy Reserves. When Mr. Pitt brought forward the Canada bill in 1791, he distinctly specified, that the arrangement then made must be subject to such modifications as might afterwards be deemed expedient. The experience of thirty-five years had demonstrated not only the inconvenience, but the absolute mischief, which resulted from that arrangement. The appropriation of Clergy Reserves in Canada had operated as a serious obstacle to agricultural improvement. The making of roads, an object of so much importance to the colony, was checked by this arrangement for, as every man was obliged to make roads through his own estate, where these reserves occurred, the progress of road-making was either arrested, or the burthen
 587
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was impossible for him at that moment to say whether he should propose to the House that the additional expenses incurred by the expedition to Portugal should be defrayed by an addition to the army extraordinaries, or by means of a separate vote. In whatever shape it might be presented, he did not think it would be so formidable as the hon. member seemed to fancy.
 Mr. Warburton  wished to know whether all the expense of the Portuguese expedition would be defrayed by this country, or any part by Portugal; and if so, what part?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that this government was not to pay the expense of the subsistence and the charges for barracks of the troops in Portugal; which were to be defrayed by the government of that country.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought it was necessary that officers should be educated in such a manner as would qualify them for entering the service. The hon. member was mistaken in supposing that only thirty-eight cadets had been educated; for in time of peace two hundred, and in war four hundred, were educated at these colleges.
 Mr. Maberly  admitted that our officers ought to be properly educated for the service; but thought that that education should be at the charge of their friends. He was persuaded that, if the subject were referred to a committee above-stairs, a saving of ten thousand a-year might be effected.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, that that was precisely what had been done in 1817, when a committee above-stairs had fixed the scale by which this part of our expenditure ought to be regulated.
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  complained that there was no symptom of retrenchment manifested in the army. The country could not go on with a military establishment of 87,000 men. The navy was never more efficient; and on it the safety of the country mainly depended. It was on the principle that retrenchment ought to take place, that he had opposed the grant to the royal duke the other night; not on account of the sum proposed to be granted, but because he conceived it an outrage, that such a proposition
 593
 Mr. Maberly  said, that he had advised his hon. friend long ago, not to press his objections against these estimates, as such subjects could only be examined with effect in a committee. His hon. friend, however, had followed his own course: and, perhaps, after all, he did right in. keeping the subject so constantly before the public. It had, no doubt, the effect of putting a wholesome check to the expenditure of the country. The noble Secretary had admitted, that the committee appointed in 1817 had effected some good. But such a committee, if periodical, would be much more useful. He gave his hon. friend credit for his exertions, and thought that he had, in some degree, checked the prepress of expenditure. But he was of opinion, that these were subjects which could only be effectually treated by a committee; and, for his own part, if he were a member of such a committee, he would entirely concur with the gallant officer, that the services of the army deserved to be recompensed. He agreed, however, with his hon. friend, that the subject of sinecures ought not to be overlooked, and hoped that he would press the appointment of a committee.
 Mr. Baring  said, that his hon. friend the member for Montrose; might possibly diminish his influence in the House by the manner in which he objected to every vote. It was, however, unquestionable, that his vigilance had been an insuperable obstacle to many objectionable practices and designs. It was quite impossible that the government could proceed in their present course, unless the people were called upon for the augmentation of taxes, or the finances were to be ruined. One of these two things must occur. The whole system of expenditure ought to be referred to a Committee of the House. The estimates were of a nature which, under the present state of its finances, the country could not supply. Government might say that such a scale of expenditure was necessary to uphold the honour and dignity of the country; but it was impossible for the people to meet that scale. The difference between those who had to spend and those who had to pay, was immense. It was not for government to say, that this garrison was useful, or that this establishment was essential. The question was, could the country afford it? He thought that the present estimate had been most satisfactorily accounted for by the gallant officer who had recently addressed the House, with whom he agreed in thinking that there were many meritorious officers who would gladly accept of a government of small value as a reward of their services, who would feel ill treated by the offer of a pension to the same amount. If, as had been stated, any abuses had crept in, in bestowing these appointments, the best way to expose them was, by giving them publicity. He was sorry to be obliged to oppose the amendment of the hon. member for Aberdeen.
 Mr. Rickford  moved as an Amendment,
 599 l.,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that allusion having been made to governors who were not military men, he wished it to be understood, that the government of the Isle of Wight had never been considered a military appointment, that officer discharging the ordinary duties of a lord-lieutenant. The father of the earl of Malmesbury had been for a long time employed in diplomatic situations—a sort of office in which it was well known the individuals seldom made fortunes. He had received the reward of a pension and a peerage from his royal master, with the reversion of a part of that pension to his son. That portion of the pension the present lord Malmesbury had resigned for the government of the Isle of Wight, an office which would cease at his lordship's death, as it had in fact been abolished by the act of 1817.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  thought it would be serviceable to the country, if such a committee was appointed every seven years.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  thought it would be very advantageous to refer, not only this particular subject, but the whole of the estimate for the Army, Navy, and Ordnance, to the consideration of a committee, by whom they might be minutely discussed, with a view to public economy. Such a mode of proceeding would also have the effect of doing away with much desultory conversation.
 Mr. Lombe  remonstrated against the enormous expenses of the country, and particularly against the estimates for the land forces.
 Mr. Monck  maintained that the estimates ought to be referred to a committee, The situation of the country had so materially changed within the last ten years, that it was necessary to revise the report of the committee of 1817. With respect to the particular vote before the House, he fully agreed with his hon. friend, that the whole effect of this very large expenditure was the education of thirty-eight young gentlemen.
 Mr. Hume  said, that he had opposed this vote several years ago, and the time that had since elapsed had more and more convinced him of the necessity of adopting some salutary measure of reform, not only in this particular vote, but with regard to others. He objected to this grant, because he was opposed to the system of sinecures; and he meant to show that, with a few exceptions, the vote which the House was now called upon to pass was principally made up of pensions and sinecures. He would show that in this estimate of 36,272 l. 594 l. l. l. l. l. l. 595 l. l., l. l., l. l. l.
 Mr. Hume  objected to the great expense incurred in the education of young men for the army at the Military Colleges, which bore no proportion to the number of cadets. In the last year only thirty-eight cadets, who had been educated at the Military Colleges had entered the army, and he believed that for some years there had not been more than ten young men at Woolwich.
 Mr. Hume  expressed his satisfaction at the measure proposed by the hon. Secretary. Nothing tended more to check the progress of improvement in Canada, than the allotment of land to the clergy. He should be glad to know the details of the new arrangement made between his majesty's government and the Canada company. He trusted also, that these reserved lands would be disposed of by some public mode of purchase, so as to enable the proprietors of the adjoining lands to become purchasers. By these means, improvements in the cultivation of land, and in the making of roads, would be more rapidly carried on.
 Mr. Hume  said, that seeing the chancellor of the Exchequer in his place, he wished to ask him whether the estimates, as they stood, were meant to include all the expenses of the expedition to Portugal, or whether he intended to propose some addition at a future opportunity? He thought it was time for the right hon. gentleman to be looking about for the ways and means with which he was to pay the estimates.
 Mr. Hume  said, he would meet the wishes of his friends, by withdrawing his motion.
 Mr. W. Smith  supported the amendment, thinking that by putting an end to one of these sinecures, he should accelerate the extinction of abuses so often and so justly complained of.
 Sir A. Hope  rose to oppose the amendment of the hon. gentleman, who had not proved that the situations of which he spoke were sinecures. With respect to the governor of Berwick, he had been sixty-two years in the service, and the lieutenant-governor forty-nine years, making a total of one hundred and eleven years passed in the service of their country. There was no class of officers, he won id venture to affirm, who deserved more from their country than those persons who were appointed governors of garrisons. It
 596
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the question was not one of detail, but of principle, and was therefore a proper one to be discussed by the House. These garrison appointments might be divided into two classes: those given to inferior officers, to which duties were attached; and those given to higher officers as a reward for
 597 598
 Mr. Duncombe  said, he had been asked to support the cause of the petitioners; but he never could consent to advocate measures, which, in his opinion, involved the ruin of the landed interest. If his majesty's government should propose an alteration of these laws, by which the interests of the landowners would be properly protected, he would give the alteration his support; but if the interests of that class should not be sufficiently attended to, he certainly would not countenance the change.
 Mr. Whitmore  expressed his pleasure at hearing the noble lord state so plainly and so temperately the objects of difference between the parties interested in the corn question. The moderation so strongly exhibited upon that occasion, would go a great way to quiet the fears of the agriculturists, and to satisfy them that the violent changes which they apprehended were not desired by those who called for a modification of the Corn-laws.
 Mr. Marshall  said, that the persons who suffered most from the operation of the Corn-laws had borne their distresses for a long time with great patience; and that they now entertained strong hopes of being relieved from the miseries incidental to the continuance of the present system of restriction—hopes which he earnestly trusted would not be disappointed.
 Mr. W. Horton  begged the hon. gentleman not to press the appointment of such a committee in the absence of his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. There were many things connected with the subject which would render it very desirable that his right hon. friend should be present.
 Mr. W. Horton  replied, that he was not prepared to give a perfectly satisfactory explanation of the matters referred to by the hon. member, in the absence of his right hon. friend. He was not, however, aware that it was the intention of government to send out a commission to the Mauritius; and, as to a committee at home upon the subject, it was not, in his opinion, by any means likely to be productive of beneficial results.
 Major Maberly , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the petition from Northampton, complaining of the conduct of the Corporation of that borough, felt himself placed in circumstances of no ordinary difficulty. Under no circumstances, indeed, did a public accuser find himself in a very grateful position; but, upon the present occasion, he felt all the usual unpleasantness of such an office, with the addition of no slight embarrassment, arising from considerations that personally affected himself; for, in this case, while he knew, on the one hand,
 607 l 608 l 609 610 611 prima facie
 The Attorney-General  (sir Charles Wetherell) rose to express his dissent from the hon. gentleman's premises, although, if he did not feel himself obliged to do so, he should perfectly agree with him in his conclusion. He perfectly agreed with him, that if the conduct of the corporation of North-
 612 l 613 l l l 614
 The Attorney General , across the table, —No.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he much regretted that before he came down to the House, it had not been in his power to make himself more perfectly acquainted with the circumstances of this particular case. He had only been fortunate enough to hear the last two speeches, and to read in the votes of the House one of the petitions referred to. He could very sincerely assure the House, that, in coming to a vote upon this subject, he would solely exercise his own judgment, and decide, without reference, in the slightest degree, to any party considerations. He had reason to regret further, that in the course of what he understood his hon. and learned friend near him to have said, some observations should have escaped, calculated to excite prejudice, and interfere with an impartial decision. Agreeing, as he did in the main, with what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend, he the more regretted being under the necessity of making this exception. It was an exception, however, which he owed to candour, and a sense of justice. For himself, he
 618 619 l 620 l l l a laugh. 621
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  denied that the corporation, to which he had the honour to belong, had ever made an improper application of the charitable funds intrusted to their care. It had happened to him that he had been obliged to differ with the corporation of London as to the
 623
 Mr. Secretary Peel  disclaimed the intention of casting any imputation upon the corporation of London. He had had an opportunity, for several years, of observing the conduct of that body, and had never known a single act to have been done by it, upon which that House, or he, or any other individual, could found a reasonable complaint. He had only referred to the corporation of London incidentally, in answer to the argument of the gallant officer, and the purport of his observation in reference to it, was merely, that if the proposition of the minority being bound by the majority were tenable, the act of the corporation which he had instanced, could not, on that principle, be vindicated.
 Lord John Russell  expressed his surprise at the unwillingness of the right hon. gentleman to refer the question in the manner proposed. The practice complained of might prove in the highest degree detrimental. The question certainly was not, whether the candidate, supported by a corporation, were a ministerial, or an opposition candidate, but whether a corporation was to be suffered to set one party in a town against another. If the habit of supporting the candidates of particular parties prevailed, elections in this country would soon become even more corrupt than they had been, and the general opinion of a city would be overborne by the contribution of immense sums to support the person who might happen for the time to be the favourite of the corporation. It might be said, that the funds appropriated to these purposes did not form a portion of the funds designed for charitable objects. But how could this fact be ascertained? Who could say what particular portion of the funds of a corporation had been applied to a specific purpose? If this was a legal application of the funds, he should be, on that account, even more anxious for a committee; for in, that case some measure would, be
 624
 Mr. Secretary Peel.— I am sorry that my argument has been so completely misunderstood. What I say is this, if any corporation has applied charitable funds to election purposes, I cannot conceive a more reprehensible application of such funds. If a corporation has applied funds over which they have an entire and undisputed control, to election purposes, I do not say that I approve of such an application; all I ask of this House is, not this night to vote such an application a breach of its privileges. I have such doubts of the propriety of such an application of corporation funds, that if any corporation were to ask my opinion as to their right so to apply the general funds of the corporation, my advice would be—" Don't do any thing of the kind." And I further say, that if such an application of corporation funds shall be decided not to be illegal, my objections to it are so strong, that in my opinion, a legislative remedy should be resorted to, to prevent the recurrence of a similar application.
 Major Maberly  begged leave to withdraw his original motion, and to substitute the following:—" That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into any payment, or engagement to pay Election expenses, by the corporation of Northampton, at the late Election."—The motion was agreed to, and a committee appointed.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  said, that the hon. member for Limerick had so entirely demolished the speech of the attorney-general, that he would not trouble the House at any length. This was not a case of nice legal distinctions, as to the cognizance of what court the offence ought to be submitted. It was a question of mere plain common sense. If the petition before the House stated the truth, the corporation had committed an open and enormous malversation on the funds of the community of Northampton, for which they were trustees, in the misapplication of the common property to purposes which brought them distinctly and clearly before the House.—He was one who thought the system of open corporations, under which the inhabitants of large places elected their own magistrates, the very best that could
 617
 Mr. Abercromby  considered this to be a question on which it was desirable that the House should act upon some clear, definite, and ascertained principle. The right hon. Secretary seemed to have fallen into a misconception, and to have attached the whole importance to the question— whether or not the money had been diverted from charitable purposes. But, the real and single point with which the House had to deal, was the fact as alleged, that 1,000 l l
 Mr. Buxton  then withdrew his motion.
 Mr. F. Buxton  expressed his surprise, that, after that right hon. Secretary had, nearly nine months ago, declared his opinion in favour of inquiry, and declared that, after the charges he had heard, a parliamentary inquiry ought to take place, there should be any opposition, or hesitation in consenting to the appointment of a committee. As he had had no opportunity, however, of any immediate correspondence with that right hon. gentleman, he would consent to postpone his motion for the present, upon the consideration of the hon. Secretary consenting to reply to two, or even one, question. He was convinced, in the first place, that if there was any inten-
 606
 Mr. F. Buxton , in rising to move for the Committee of which he had given notice, said, that as the subject had been already discussed in all its details, and as he did not anticipate any opposition, he would content himself with merely moving "That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire whether the Slave Trade has existed at the Mauritius and its dependencies, to what extent, and the causes thereof."
 Sir T. Lethbridge  could, not allow the
 604 605
 Mr. Spring Rice :—Then the learned gentleman's proposition amounted to nothing. Suppose proceedings were com-
 616
 Mr. Spring Rice , after apologizing for his presumption in rising after the very clear and able statement of his hon. friend who had brought this subject under the consideration of the House, said he was desirous to show the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, that he had fallen into an inadvertent error. In the first place, he wished to disembarrass the subject of a great portion of the legal subtleties by which it had been surrounded. It was a question which involved considerations of a much larger and more important nature, than the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to imagine. If it were merely a complaint from the town of Northampton that the corporation had, for their own benefit, or for any undue purpose, misapplied their funds, it might be a question, whether the House ought to agree to a motion for inquiry. He for one might be disposed, in such a case, to acquiesce in the doctrine laid down by the hon. and learned gentleman, that, if the petitioners had a clear legal remedy, the House ought not to exert its authority on the subject. But, what was the actual complaint? In the older and better times of parliament, if it had been alleged that a corporate body had misapplied their funds, for the purpose of procuring the return of a member to that House, he doubted whether an attorney-general would have refused an inquiry on legal grounds, or have told the complainants to go to a court of equity, in order to ascertain, not if the money of the corporation had gone to A or B, but if it had been applied to influence the
 615 l
 Sir E. Knatchbull  expressed his satisfaction at the temperate tone in which the noble lord had introduced the present subject, and he trusted that, when the discussion of the Corn-laws took place, it would be characterized by similar moderation. There was one expression of the noble lord, however, to which he could
 603
 Sir George Robinson  rose, merely for the purpose of supporting the motion of his hon. friend and colleague. He did not consider this a fit case for a court of law. It ought to be taken up on constitutional principles, and decided in that House. He would only further state, that the returning officer belonged to that body who had supplied the money; and this of itself implied such a partiality, that the election could not have taken place under him with fairness.
 Mr. Phillips  said, that the great evil arising from the prohibitions of the importation of grain was, that it prevented manufactures from being carried out of the country, in return for the grain that might be brought in. There could not be a greater mistake than to suppose that the introduction of foreign grain would be injurious to the agriculturist: seeing that no change could take place in the commerce of the country that would give it fresh activity, and contribute to the prosperity of the manufacturing classes, without proving beneficial to the holders and occupiers of land.
 Lord Althorp  said, that the present complaint was one which affected the rights and privileges of the House, and as such it was their duty to inquire into the circumstances out of which it arose. He concurred with the right, hon. Secretary, that it was desirable that the House should acquire a knowledge of facts, before any distinct measure was adopted. If it should turn out upon investigation that the facts, as stated in the last petition, were true, some act of legislative interposition would
 622
 Lord Milton  presented sundry petitions from Yorkshire, praying for an alteration in the Corn-laws. To the petition from Leeds—one of the wealthiest and most intelligent manufacturing towns in the country—he wished particularly to call the attention of the House. Undoubtedly, the prosperity of the country depended, in a great degree, upon the
 602
 Mr. J. Maxwell  presented a petition from the productive classes of Renfrew, praying for Reform, a free trade in Corn, and an Equalization of Contracts.
 631
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that if the hon. member had not concluded by giving this general notice, he should scarcely have been able to comprehend exactly what he was at. But, if he supposed that government had been induced to postpone the Corn question on account of any thing he might have said in that House, or what any one might have said any where else, he could only undertake to give to such an assertion a peremptory denial.
 Mr. Maberly  complained of the manner in which ministers had acted with respect to the currency question. They first tampered with the currency of England without inquiry. Without inquiry they created
 632
 Lord Folkestone  charged ministers with supineness in having so long neglected the vital question of the currency. Their conduct gave rise to the inference, that they had altered their opinions upon the subject; for they had failed to carry into effect the principles which they set out with avowing. There was a tampering already going on with the currency; and, under such circumstances, the question could never be said to be settled.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose to bring forward his promised motion. He had now, he said, agreeably to that motion, to apply to the House for leave to bring in four bills, having for their object the simplification and consolidation of the statutes relating to the Criminal Laws. The first of those bills was intended to consolidate and amend the laws relating to theft, and the various offences connected therewith. The second was to amend the law relating to another class of offence against the subject, namely, a wilful and malicious injury of property. The third bill for which he should move, would be to consolidate and amend the laws relating to remedies against the hundred. And the fourth bill which he should submit to the notice of the House, would have the effect of repealing such statutes as would be superseded by the three first bills, in order not to encumber the Statute-book, by the introduction of separate acts of parliament for the attainment of that object. By this means, the three bills which he had already named would not be impeded in their operation, by clauses and enactments contrary to their spirit. He had entered last session so fully into the policy and necessity of amending the criminal statutes, that he was not sure whether it was at all necessary to enforce the reasoning which he then used, or to trouble the House with a repetition of his views, notwithstanding some of the members whom he had now the honour to address were not in parlia-
 633 634 maximum 635 636 637 l l 638 639 640 l l l l 641 l 642
 Mr. Cripps  said, that it was unnecessary for him to offer more than one word on the excellence of the measures which had been proposed by the right hon. Secretary. The improvements which he had already made in our criminal law were above all praise; as were also those which he had now suggested. In reply to the observations of the hon. member for Hull, on the impropriety of giving one magistrate a summary power of conviction, he observed, that it was necessary that one magistrate should have that power, as there were many parts of the country in which it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to get two magistrates. The increase in the county rates was occasioned by two causes very dissimilar—the increase of crime, of road-making and bridge-making throughout the country. He was extremely glad that the subject had attracted the notice of the right hon. Secretary.
 Mr. Batley  returned his thanks to the right hon. gentleman for the admirable speech which he had that evening delivered. He was quite convinced that the comprehensive plans disclosed in that speech would have the effect of diminishing the amount of capital punishment. He would not trouble the House further than by saying, that the right hon. gentleman had achieved for himself a permanent fame, and that his exertions were calculated to produce the most salutary results on the morals of society.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he should be guilty of great injustice to the House, if he did not briefly express the gratitude which he felt for the general support which his proposed measures had received. It was most gratifying to him to observe a complete oblivion of all party and personal feeling, when the object before the House was an endeavour to effect a great public benefit. Such a support was the most honourable testimony that could be borne to the utility of his efforts, and the uprightness of his intentions. He would not, on the present occasion, make any observations on the subject which had been alluded to by an hon. gentleman opposite; he meant the melancholy increase of crime. He had, however, caused comparative tables to be drawn up, and he was sorry to observe, but he owed it to justice to declare, that the comparison of the present with former periods was not satisfactory. Perhaps, however, the overgrown amount of the population might be adduced as one of the reasons which produced that unfavourable result. That, however, this subject had not escaped his attention, and that he meant to endeavour to apply some remedy for the evil, must be obvious to the hon. gentleman, as he had given notice of a motion for an inquiry into the state of the police within ten miles of the metropolis. When that motion came forward, the whole question could be discussed.
 Sir George Chetwynd  said, that having for many years been in the habit of superintending the administration of the laws as a magistrate, he could but express his gratitude to the right hon. gentleman, not only for the improvements which he had already introduced, but for those which he was about to introduce into our criminal jurisprudence.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, that the present was one of those occasions in which it was the duty of all those who felt strongly, to attempt to give utterance to the feelings under which they laboured. In all the admirable address which the House had just heard from the lips of the right hon. Secretary there was only one part to which he was inclined to make any exception, and that was the part in which the right hon. gentleman had told them, that it was possible that by pursuing a different course from that which he had followed, a more splendid fame might have been acquired. Upon that point alone, he begged leave to express his dissent. The right hon. gentleman was mistaken. A more slpendid fame than that which he had already earned could not be acquired, and the right hon. gentleman must have seen the earnest of that fame, which he would enjoy to the latest posterity, in the applauses which he had already received from men of all parties in the country— applauses which stamped on his exertions a reputation, which no future act of the right hon. gentleman would be able to destroy [cheers]. The right hon. gentleman had to deal with a subject which many great and good men, who had gone before him, had attempted, but in vain, to remedy. Those who preceded the right hon. gentleman had, however, only the will. Fortunately for himself, and fortunately for his country, the right hon. gentleman had likewise the power and, with the power and the will combined, it was impossible that he should not, if he lived, see the best results emanate out of his exertions. If one of the persons to whom he alluded— if one of those great minds, who had formed plans for the good of mankind—if the man who once represented his constituents in that House, and held the seat which he now so unworthily held—if sir Samuel Romilly, who had so often regretted the state of the criminal law, and breathed
 644 645
 Mr. Sykes  objected to the power given by certain bills to convict offenders by summary process before one magistrate. As a magistrate he did not like the responsibility thus thrown upon him; and, as a man, he would prefer that the conviction should take place before two magistrates. In all attempts to improve the criminal justice of the country, attention should be paid to the county rates, which were now increasing, in all parts of the country, to an alarming extent. Indeed, in one place with which he was acquainted, the county rates were greater in amount than the poor-rates were thirty years ago. In conclusion, he applauded the right hon. Secretary for proceeding, step by step, in his attempts to amend the Criminal jurisprudence of his country.
 Mr. E. Davenport  took occasion to complain of the conduct of Ministers, with respect to the question of the currency. He had already given a vague notice on the subject; and he believed that, in consequence of this threat, ministers had been induced to put off the consideration of the Corn question from the day for which they had originally given notice. He would now take the opportunity of saying, that he would redeem the pledge which he had given, and take a speedy opportunity of formally bringing the subject under the consideration of the House.
 Lord Althorp  returned thanks to the right hon. Secretary, for the great progress which he had already made in amending the criminal code of the country. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman, that it was necessary to proceed cautiously in the task which he had undertaken, inasmuch as nothing was more dangerous than inconsiderate legislation upon matters of a criminal nature. He admitted, that the increasing amount of county rates for some years past was a subject worthy the serious consideration of every gentleman who stood in the situation which he filled as a county member. The reason why the expenses of prosecutions at the quarter sessions was less than those at the assizes was, because the first underwent the revision of the magistrates who had to pay them. He trusted that the right hon. gentleman would consider whether some measure might not be devised to assimilate the scale of expenses at the assizes to that used at the quarter sessions. He was fully convinced that the laws relative to malicious injury to property required amendment; inasmuch as they had filled our gaols with criminals for comparatively trifling and insignificant offences. He also thought that the laws relative to poaching had been recently applied to many cases which were not intended to be affected by them. In conclusion, he intreated the right hon. gentleman to accept his tribute of applause for the benefit which he
 643
 The Attorney-General  said, that the bill of 1794 was intended to allow all persons, who chose, to exonerate themselves from the land-tax, within a certain time; and those persons who had not taken advantage of that permission within that certain time were now precluded from any relief. He would admit, however, that upon general principles, the petitioners ought to be relieved; although there was an utter incapability to grant that relief to those who had availed themselves of the terms of the act of parliament.
 Mr. Secretary Peel , although he continued to think as he always had thought, that it would be impolitic to grant any further political concessions to the Roman Catholics, yet his opinions upon that subject could not prevent his giving his hearty concurrence to any measure which would have the effect of relieving them from what there could be no question was a direct heavy burthen imposed upon their religious belief.
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  brought up a Report from the Emigration Committee; and in moving that it should lie on the table, he said he thought it right to inform the House of the circumstances under which the Committee had deemed it expedient to present
 654
 Lord John Russell  said, that as far as he was able, he would endeavour to give an answer to the objections which had been urged by the hon. gentleman to his noble friend's proposition. The hon. gentleman had expressed his surprise at that proposition, and had declared it to be his opinion, that no further proceeding on the subject was necessary, seeing that the existing remedies against bribery and corruption were amply sufficient. In contradiction to that opinion, he would only beg the House to observe what passed at every general election. Was it not a notorious fact, that in numerous places the returns were regulated exclusively by the greater or less amount of money which the candidates bestowed on the electors? At one of the most recent
 661 662 663 664
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that the right hon. baronet had certainly brought forward no very powerful argument in support of the resolution of his noble friend, because, though he decided upon giving it his aid, he had also declared that he
 668 669 670 671 l prima facie
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said:—If the hon. member for Galway is entitled to accuse ministers of ingratitude after a service of forty years, I do not think the noble mover has much reason to be thankful for the sort of support which his proposition has just received. I apprehend he will be inclined to reject a vote given upon such grounds, and under such circumstances. Regarding the transactions during the election for Galway, I know nothing: but I hope the House will do the noble marquis, who is the object of attack, the justice to suspend its judgment. When I mention that the hon. gentleman who has stated his own case against the noble marquis is himself petitioned against by the very individual with regard to whom this corruption is alleged to have taken place, the House will perceive, that it would be most unfair to arrive at any premature decision. Let it be recollected, too, that that petition charges the hon. member for Galway with almost every offence of which it is possible for a candidate to be guilty.
 Lord J. Russell  urged the propriety of passing a general resolution, declaratory of the determination of the House to put an end to bribery and corruption.
 Mr. Baring  thought, that the proposition of the noble lord would open the door to vague inquiry, while the resolution of the right hon. gentleman was open to another objection. He had for many years voted in minorities; and, if a charge of bribery were brought against a member of the opposition side of the House, in times when party feeling ran high, he feared he would have but a bad chance of a fair inquiry.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  concurred in the opinion of the noble lord, that the scope and object of the resolution now before the House was different from that of the
 677
 Mr. G. Lamb  said, it would appear, from the wording of the resolution, that no benefit could be derived from it until the next session of parliament, because
 678
 Lord J. Russell  thought, that the resolution was a considerable improvement of the law. He wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman meant to introduce any general remedy for general corruption.
 Mr. Hobhouse  expressed himself in favour of the resolution, and trusted that all opposition to it would be withdrawn. At the same time, he should not be acting fairly, if he led the House to suppose that he expected any great benefit from it. He did not think that any material good would be effected by this or any other temporary expedient. At the same time, it would be extremely wrong, when an opportunity occurred, even of attempting good, not to accelerate it as far as he possibly could.
 Lord Milton's  first amendment, as to the omission of the word "future," was then put and negatived. The noble lord's second amendment, as to the insertion of the words "or gift of place, emolument," being put,
 Sir J. Sebright  opposed the clause, convinced, as he was, that the power to inflict corporal punishment ought not to be discontinued in the army.
 Mr. Hobhouse  supported the clause.
 Lord Barnard  was averse to the infliction of corporal punishments; but, from an experience of eleven years in the army, he felt bound to declare, that, in his opinion, it would be unsafe to try the experiment suggested.
 Mr. Bernal  wished a committee to be appointed, for the purpose of inquiring into the practicability of dispensing with the infliction of corporal punishment in the army.
 General Duff  said, that it was as easy to chain the north wind as to manage British soldiers without the aid of corporal
 680
 Mr. G. Lamb  declared himself a convert to the opinion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, not from the arguments used on his side of the House, but from those urged by the gallant officers who opposed the abolition of flogging. Nobody could persuade him, that the tying a man up to the halberds, and flogging him in the presence of his fellows, was not a degradation.
 Colonel Wood  contended, that this punishment was indispensable in the militia.
 Mr. R. Gordon  said, that these punishments were admitted by their advocates to be evils, though they contended that they were necessary evils. He should be glad to see the necessity removed, and some better system substituted for the present defective one.
 Mr. Abercromby  approved of the suggestion of the President of the Board of Control, but contended, that the difference between the two sides of the House really amounted to nothing. All gentlemen seemed unanimous in favour of the proposition of his noble friend. No man disputed, that the case stated by the hon. member for Berkshire ought to be investigated at any period of a parliament. Now, under the Grenville act, it could not be done after the lapse of a certain time; so that the House had only two modes of proceeding—either the appointment of a committee, to which the particular complaint might be referred, or the examination of witnesses at the bar. All knew that the latter course was most inconvenient, by delaying the public business of the session. The whole difference, therefore, was simply this—would the House, on an early day of the session, appoint a committee for the investigation of matters of this kind, or would it wait until the particular case occurred requiring investigation? If the former course were taken, no favour could be shewn. If the latter, it was liable to the imputation of partiality.
 Mr. Abercromby  viewed the great question as being, whether a general committee should be appointed, or a committee on each particular case. He was not inclined to attach all the importance to the present resolution, which, on the first blush, some gentlemen might think it deserved. Many petitions were presented under the bribery act; but they all must be aware, that though bribery was mentioned as one of the points on which those petitions were founded, that charge was rarely touched upon. They were not, therefore, he conceived, likely to benefit much from the present resolution. From that of his noble friend he believed much good would have arisen, as it referred to a class of cases quite different from those which the present resolution was intended to meet.
 Mr. Abercromby 
 652 653 l
 Mr. Leslie Foster  said, there could not be any doubt as to the importance of the subject, or the necessity of preventing a practice so disgraceful and unconstitutional, as that of which the noble lord complained. Respecting the means by which the end was to be accomplished, there might be a great difference of opinion. He must say, after hearing the proposition of the noble lord, that never since he had known any thing of parliament, had he heard a measure which should be received with greater caution than that before the House; because, out of regard to the
 658 659 ex parte ex parte 660 Quis custodiet ipsos custodes
 Mr. John Wood  said, he was perfectly satisfied, that, if greater time had been allowed, the table would have been crowded with petitions from all parts of the kingdom against the grant. He implored the House to recollect, that, although the people, thus placed in the extremity of distress, were quiet, they were not indifferent to a vote which seemed to be a mockery of their situation. They were not so absurd as to suppose that any relief could be given them by abstaining from that grant. They did not suppose that their sufferings could be aggravated by the giving away of a sum of 9,000 l
 Mr. Hume  said, he held in his hand a petition, which had been agreed to at a numerous meeting of the inhabitants of Manchester. The petitioners stated, that they had endured great privations and distresses, from the fall in the rate of wages, and that they had endured them with patience and forbearance; but they could not behold with indifference such a disregard of the condition of the suffering working classes as was manifested in the proposal to give the duke of Clarence an addition of 9,000 l 651
 Mr. Hume  proposed, as a clause to be added to the bill, that it should be unlawful to inflict corporal punishment, by stripes or lashes, upon any soldier or noncommissioned officer.
 Mr. R. Martin  denied that the infliction of flogging in the army was not a revolting cruelty.
 Mr. R. Martin  said:—In conformity with the vote I gave when the conduct of the borough of Grampound was under consideration, and in consequence of the pledge I then gave, I feel myself bound to give the proposition of the noble lord some degree of support. If I have no other alternative, I will vote for the noble lord's resolution, not because I hold it free from objection, but because it is the
 672 673
 Mr. R. Martin  contended that the word "county" ought to be introduced into the resolution.
 Mr. R. Palmer  said, that in the county which he had the honour to represent, there was an instance afforded of the total inefficacy of the law, as it now stood, to check the most flagrant bribery and corruption, with all their train of perjury and demoralizing effects upon the people. He had received a letter, which fully detailed the manner in which the bribery was carried on, in a certain borough of that county. As soon as the time had expired, during which the existing law against such corrupt practices was in efficacy, an individual, well known by the name of "the Miller," went round to each elector, and left him a certain token of the sound judgment and propriety with which he had given his vote. The Miller gave the honest elector a token of 20 l 665
 Mr. R. Palmer  observed, that the reso-
 676
 Mr. W. Wynn  said, he did not approve of the form of the resolution then before the House, and he had therefore drawn up another, which, perhaps, he should be allowed to read. In making the present proposition, he was sure the noble lord would feel that he was not actuated by any wish to stifle an effort which had for its object the prevention of corrupt practices; but he feared, if the proposition then before the House was agreed to, that it would give rise to a great many vexatious complaints. He therefore thought that a resolution to the following effect would meet the object of the noble lord, and would steer clear of the difficulties with which the noble lord's proposition was connected:—"That all persons who will question any future return of members to serve in parliament, upon any allegation of bribery or corruption, and who shall in their petition specifically allege any payment of money, or other reward, to have been made by any member, or on his account, or with his privity, since the time of such return, in pursuance or in furtherance of such bribery or corruption, may question the same at any time within twenty-eight days after the date of such payment, or if this House be not sitting at the expiration of the said twenty-eight days, then, within fourteen days after the day when the House shall next meet."
 Mr. Wynn  said, that if the evil existed, it was no proof that the existing law was insufficient to check the abuse. He was convinced, that the defect was not in the law, but in the want of persons to carry the law properly into execution. The penalties already established were, he thought, sufficiently heavy. If they were not, they ought to be increased. If a penalty of 500 l l 666 667
 Mr. Wynn  reminded the hon. member, that the resolution included all returns whatsoever, as well for counties as for boroughs.
 Mr. W. Wynn  said, the only question was, whether the cases referred to by the noble lord's resolution, did, or did not, come within the scope of the present law. If they did not, then, he contended, that his resolution fully supplied the deficiency.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he wished by this resolution to keep both the electors and the elected pure. The person seeking for a seat, if solicited, would answer, "I cannot bribe you, even though you wish it; because, long after the election is over, if any well-founded impropriety is complained of, I am certain to lose my seat." He would thus render it imperative on candidates not to transgress the law.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that as he had used his best endeavours to save criminals from this degrading punishment, he could never give his consent to have it inflicted on British soldiers.
 Mr. Scarlett  observed, that, as there
 679
 Sir H. Vivian  trusted, if a committee were appointed, that it would be a committee of practical men, and expressed his opinion of the necessity of corporal punishment to maintain a proper degree of discipline among our troops.
 Mr. Ferguson  observed, that, as the question did not appear to be clearly understood, it would be better to adjourn the debate upon it.
 Sir John Newport  said, he considered some alteration absolutely necessary, to put an end to a system, which it was idle to say did not exist to a very alarming extent, notwithstanding the provisions of the Grenville act. Fourteen years ago he had himself unsuccessfully brought, forward a plan, in which he proposed that, in addition to the oath which members were obliged to take at the table of the House, an oath should be administered, by which they declared that neither they, nor any person on their behalf, had given any money, or promise of money, place, pension, or emolument, to any person or persons who had been instrumental in returning the said members to parliament. If the House were really in earnest, they would follow up that measure. It was idle to talk of other remedies, while the one to which he referred was neglected. Where was the utility of calling upon poor electors to take the oath against bribery, unless the elected were put to a similar test? The bill which he introduced, however, had been cut up by hon. and right hon. members, until at last it became a perfect nonentity. If the proposition of his noble friend should be rejected, he himself would bring in a bill founded on similar principles.
 Lord Althorp  felt called upon to state, that there was a considerable difference between his own resolution and the suggestion of the right hon. gentleman. His own proposition was intended to have the effect of facilitating the disfranchisement of corrupt boroughs, while the amendment of the right hon. gentleman would by no means go to that extent. In many cases before election committees, only enough was proved to unseat the particular member, and there the inquiry stopped, without pursuing the investigation, to ascertain whether it would be fit to disfranchise the borough for bribery and corruption. He did not include counties, because his object was, not to attack the seats of members, but to purify boroughs; and he knew of no means of disfranchising counties. Although he preferred his own resolution, he considered that the change proposed by the right hon. gentleman would be a great improvement of the present election law of the House. Under the circumstances, he would not trouble the House to divide, but could not consent to withdraw his resolution.
 Lord Althorp  said, he was willing to support the resolution, because he felt considerable anxiety for any beneficial alteration of the law on this point.
 Lord Althorp  said, that it now became his duty to state to the House his views on the subject. If he had addressed the House upon the day on which he originally moved this resolution, he should not have thought himself called upon to enter into any discussion to show the necessity of establishing some measure like that which he had proposed. But what had since occurred had convinced him of the expediency of detailing the grounds of his proposition. It was a notorious fact, that in many boroughs in this kingdom, there was a general practice of bribery at the election of members to serve in that House. It was a notorious fact, that in some of those boroughs, the voters received five, ten, twenty, thirty, or fifty pounds a head for their votes. It could not be denied, that the prevalence of this practice was a disgrace to the House of Commons and to the country; and he felt,
 655 656 657 prima facie
 Lord Milton  agreed, that, as far as the resolution went, it tended to remove corruption in boroughs. But he must take leave to observe, that the scope and object of the resolution of his noble friend was different from that of the right hon. gentleman's proposition. His noble friend wished to get rid of the corruption of the elective body, but the right hon. gentleman opposed himself to the person elected. This, he allowed, was a good object but it was different from that which his noble friend had in view.
 Lord Milton  said, that the proposition of the right hon. gentleman did not go the length of his noble friend's resolution. But, while he admitted that he did not like the resolution of the right hon. gen-
 675
 Lord Milton  asked whether, under the resolution of the right hon. gentleman, general corruption might be proved in a borough, or whether it would only go to vacate the seat of a particular member?
 Lord Milton  said, that the object of his noble friend's motion, so far from being prejudicial to any party, fairly engaged in an election struggle, would have a very different effect. The object appeared to him to be that of putting the committee in possession of certain information; and it would then be for them to decide whether that information was or was not of sufficient importance to call for the interposition of the House. So far the committee, with reference to the House, were placed precisely in the situation of a grand jury,
 674
 Lord Milton  said, that he had two amendments to propose: the first was, that the word "future" should be left out of the resolution; the other, that after the word "money," the words "or gift of place, emolument," be inserted.
 Lord Milton  thought the resolution carried with it rather the appearance of a wish to do something, than contained within itself the prospect of any substantial benefit.
 Lord Milton  had two objections to the resolution. The first was to the word "future;" the other was, that the corrupt promise mentioned in it only referred to the payment of money: whereas a candidate might bribe a voter by promising him a place in the Customs, or some other situation, and not offend against the resolution.
 Lord Palmerston  defended the system of corporal punishment in the army, and contended that, from the classes from amongst which the British army was composed, it was impossible to preserve discipline but by some coercive measures. He denied that any abuses of the power could be proved.
 The Master of the Rolls  (sir John Copley) then rose, and addressed the House to the follow purport:— 693 694 695 696 697 698 699 700 701 702 703 704 705 l. l. l. 706 707 708
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he was sure the learned gentleman must recollect, that the speech of the learned member for Lincoln was mixed up of grave charges, and ridicule; and that the notion of the motion for a commission was taken from the complexion of his speech.
 Mr. Brougham  rose. He commenced his address in so low a tone of voice as to be almost inaudible in the gallery. He said, he could not behold without deep regret the probable termination of this discussion, without any part being taken in it, either by any member of the legal profession, or by any member of the commission, whose recommendations had given rise to it; for, independently of the topics which
 725 726 727 728 729 730 731 732 733 734 735 l. l. 736 l. l. l 737 738 "PROSPERO: You'd be King of the Island, sirrah? STEPHANO: I should have been a sore one then." 739 740 741 742 743 744 745
 The Attorney-General  said, he would not occupy much of the time of the House, at that late hour, but felt himself called upon to offer a few observations, in answer to the remarks of his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down. As a member of the Chancery commission, he felt himself put upon his trial, and it was natural he should wait until he knew the nature of the accusation, previously to answering it. The four hon. gentlemen who had spoken on the other side of the House, had none of them raised any objection to the propriety of the one hundred and eighty-eight propositions of the commissioners, which it was the object of his right hon. and learned friend to carry into effect, by adopting a legislative measure, founded upon them. The hon. and learned member would not think that he intended any disrespect, if, while he allowed the admiration he felt, and the entertainment which he, in common with the House, must have derived from his speech, he took the liberty of remarking, that nearly the whole of that speech had no connexion with the subject before the House. Were the one hundred and eighty-eight propositions which the commissioners, after two years' labour, had prepared, fit or unfit to be carried into effect? Of the four hon. gentlemen who had spoken, none had questioned their propriety. They had all adopted different lines of argument, widely diverging from the topic actually before the House. The hon. member for Durham admitted the great merits of the lord Chancellor, and among other good qualities, gave him credit for his urbanity. The hon. member for Colchester came to the conclusion, not that the Chancellor did too little business, but that he had more to perform than it was in the power of human faculties to accomplish. Much of this pressure was attributable to the existing state of the bankrupt laws; but this was not the fault of the lord Chancellor. It was not his intention to dispute the propriety of improving the system of our bankrupt laws, but they formed no part of the present question; which was, whether or not the propositions of the Chancery commission ought to be carried into effect? He would solicit their attention to one or two points of his hon. and learned friend's speech. His hon. and learned friend represented all the in-
 746 747 de die in diem 748
 Mr. Secretary Peel  hoped, though the hour was late, and the House in a very exhausted state, that they would not think he was preferring, after the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, an unreasonable claim to their attention and indulgence, by detaining them by a few brief observations. There was no man, under any circumstances, more incapable than he was of entering into a discussion of the merits of the one hundred and eighty-eight propositions of the commissioners! though, if he had had leisure, he should have paid them great attention. But he would fairly own that his other avocations had occupied him so much,
 749 750
 Mr. Brougham  interrupted the right hon. Secretary, by stating, that he was authorized by the constitution of that House, to make what observations he thought fit, with reference to a minister of the Crown, notwithstanding that he was, of necessity, absent.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he did not deny the hon. and learned gentleman's right to make the attack; he only wished to remind the House, that it had been made on the lord Chancellor in his absence, in a place where he had no right to come, and which made it the duty of those who entertained for him feelings of respect, to vindicate him from an attack, which he had a right to say could not have been expected on such a motion
 751 l. l. l. l. l. 752 753 754 755 756 gravamen 757
 Mr. Brougham , in explanation, begged to observe, that in speaking of the private fortune of the lord Chancellor as being a million and a half, he did not intend to describe it as amounting to that sum, but merely as being, according to common rumour, very large.
 Mr. Peel  said, that his earnestness on the subject proceeded from a desire to guard against the probability of such report going abroad among the people at the present moment, as that the lord Chancellor had amassed an immense fortune by bankruptcies; such an assertion being calculated to make an impression which might be extremely prejudicial.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he had made inquiries as to the income of the noble and learned lord, and had found that it never exceeded 18,000 l
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  said, it was not his intention to address the House at any length upon the important subject which was now under discussion. He did not mean to reply to the arguments of the right hon. and learned gentleman who opened the debate, and to combat the opinions which he had expressed. But as the right hon. and learned gentleman had called upon the learned and unlearned part of the House to give their sanction to his measures, if they agreed in their propriety, or to oppose them if they disapproved, he felt himself bound to accept the challenge, and to withhold his support to the motion of the right hon. and learned gentleman. In the outset of the right hon. gentleman's remarks, he had
 717 s d l. l. l. 718 l. s l. l. l l. 719 l l. 720 721 l. l. l. 722
 Mr. George Bankes  assured the House, that the lord Chancellor, instead of having 15 l. l. l s l. l. l. l. 723
 Mr. Abercromby  said, he would not at that late hour detain the House by many observations; but he could not allow the argument which had been pressed so strongly by the right hon. gentleman upon the subject of the Chancellor's resignation, to pass without a slight explanation. The right hon. gentleman seemed to think that the motion of his learned friend the late member for Lincoln (Mr. Williams) contained propositions so degrading, that it was impossible for the lord Chancellor to hold his place for an instant, if the House had consented to adopt it. Now, the motion of the year 1811, which the House had actually adopted, was in every respect the same; the motion of the hon. member for Durham in 1811, was for a committee to inquire into the means of expediting the decision of cases in the court of Chancery. The motion of the hon. and learned member for Lincoln, was for a committee to inquire into the causes of the delays and expense of that court. He believed it would puzzle the conveyancers with whom the right hon. gentleman
 758
 Mr. John Smith  said, that he rose with considerable reluctance upon a question of this nature, as it might be readily imagined that a man of his pursuits in life was not qualified to enter into a discussion upon it. It did so happen, however, that he had turned his mind to the subject, and had devoted considerable time and attention to it.—In 1818, when he was chairman of a committee appointed to inquire into the Bankrupt-laws, Mr. Cullen, a commissioner of bankrupts, and a gentleman of great abilities and learning, had stated that "the Commissioners of Bankrupts were the worst constituted court of Judges to be found in the land: that they were divided into lists, who were separated from, and had no communication with, each other: that there was no uniformity in their decisions, no guide by which they could act upon any fixed principle; so that one list was constantly in the habit of acting in direct opposition to another: that every question brought before them was argued upon first principles: and that in their decisions they were all supreme." The hon. member, after making some observations on the way in which commissioners of bankrupts were paid, said, he had no wish to deprive the commissioners of all their emoluments, but he had a strong wish to see a code of law formed with regard to bankruptcy, on which the country could depend with as much certainty as it could on its law with regard to any other subject. Instead of seventy commissioners let there be six;—let them receive a handsome remuneration for the services they may have to perform, and then private individuals would know what they were about, when they had any thing to do with matters of bankruptcy. He alluded to some recent decisions of the commissioners, which had created great surprise in the commercial world; and said, that such was the uncertainty prevailing in all questions of bankruptcy, that creditors daily acceded to the most
 724
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  trusted the House would give him credit for having no other object in view than the public good, when he cautioned it, and particularly such members of it as had not been many years in parliament, against the measure now brought forward, and urged them to look at it with the greatest suspicion. That measure he looked upon as a mere expedient; and he thought that, while it seemed to offer some relief, its real tendency was to keep back the only effectual relief. His right hon. and learned friend, the Master of the Rolls, had very judiciously made out what appeared to be a plain and fair case, and had carefully avoided, as far as was possible, any allusion to what had been done, or attempted to be done, in that House, respecting the court of Chancery, in the course of the last twenty years. He could not agree with the view taken by his right hon. and learned friend. He knew that the repeated applications which had been made to the House were the cause of procuring at length the commission, of which he should say a few words by and by. The lord Chancellor, after refusing and neglecting, for so many years, to do anything towards the redress of the grievances which were every where complained of, could no longer prevent the appointment of the commission, which had made the famous report that had been so often alluded to by his right hon. and learned friend. He was inclined to believe that the commission had never intended to do much; and the little they had intended to do they had been frightened out of. It was impossible that any man possessing the acute mind of his right hon. and learned friend could fail to see the difficulties he
 709 710 711 712 713 714 l 715 l 716
 Mr. M. A. Taylor , being called upon by the Speaker to make his motion on the subject of separating the jurisdiction in all matters of Bankruptcy in the High Court of Chancery, said, that, as his right hon. and learned friend, the Master of the Rolls, intended on that night to submit to the House his bill for the improvement of the Administration of Justice in the Court of Chancery, he thought it due as well to his right hon. and learned friend, as to the convenience of the House, to withdraw his motion, until they should be in possession of the measures which were intended to be carried into effect by that bill. He hoped, however, that in thus withdrawing his motion, he should not ultimately lose any thing, as he reserved to himself the power of bringing the subject under their consideration at a future opportunity, as well as to make any observation in the course of that night, which he might think necessary to a proper elucidation of the subject. No exertion, he begged to assure the House, had been wanting on his part, to have those evils and abuses of the Court of Chancery, under which the suitors of that court had so long writhed, fully and fairly examined, and he trusted the time was now arrived when they would be effectually redressed.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  moved, that the House should resolve itself into a committee to consider of the Acts of 55 Geo. 3, c. 26, and 6 Geo. 4, c. 65, relative to the Trade in Corn.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, that of course it was impossible that the hon. baronet, by assenting to the motion, could; be so pledged. He was aware, that the more regular course would have been, to have given notice of this motion yesterday; but that had been rendered impossible, in consequence of there being no House.
 Mr. Secretary Canning  addressed the Committee to the following effect:— 759 760 761 762 s s s s 763 s s s s s 764 s 765 s s s d. 766 d d d d s s s s s s 767 s s s s s s s s s s s s d s d s d s 768 s d s d s d s s s s s 769 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 770 771 772
 Mr. Bankes  said, he rose to ask a question of the right hon. gentleman. What effect did the right hon. gentleman suppose his resolutions would have on the price of grain? Did he think 53 s
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he had already stated, that his majesty's ministers were of opinion, that 60 s
 Mr. C. Grant  wished to correct a mistake into which the hon. member for Essex had fallen. It was stated, that his right hon. friend had said, that corn at
 778 s s s s d
 Mr. Whitmore  said, he approved to a certain extent of the measures proposed by the right hon. gentleman, yet he denied that they were of that important nature which the country had a right to expect. He was far from thinking that they would give that satisfaction which the right hon. gentleman anticipated, or that the agricultural and manufacturing interests would flourish under their operation. He thought the duty of 20 s s s
 Sir J. Sebright  said, he had devoted much of his time to the consideration of the Corn-laws, and he now gave it as his opinion, that the present proposition was better calculated than any which had preceded it for the purposes it was intended to accomplish. He would not discuss at present the details of this measure, but would content himself with giving his hearty concurrence to the principle on which it was founded.
 Alderman Thompson  approved of the proposed resolutions, although he thought that the price fixed for wheat was too high.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  observed, that, as the hon. member for Somersetshire expressed himself almost satisfied with the proposition then before the committee, it behoved the members for populous cities I to view it with something like a feeling of alarm.
 Colonel Wood  said, that as some gentlemen had stated the scale of duties to be too high, whilst others contended that it was too low, it might, perchance, turn out, that ministers had acted very wisely in fixing on a medium between the two parties. At the same time, he must say, it appeared to him, that if agriculture was to be supported by protection, and not by prohibition, the scale of prices was too low. He implored the committee to recollect, that the farmers were at present in a very critical situation; and that if it now took a wrong step, it might create such a depression in every species of agricultural produce, as would produce the greatest distress. He believed that the safest mode of proceeding was by prohibition, and not by protection.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that in rising to address the committee on the present occasion, he had no intention to anticipate the full debate, which he allowed would come on more appropriately at another season. He trusted, however, that the debate would come on at such a period as would enable those who were obliged to leave town for the assizes to take a part in it. He did not speak of those members whoso professional avocations called them out of town, but he alluded to those gentlemen connected with the landed interest, who must be withdrawn on the same occasion. Although that period was now fast approaching, and the propositions had been now submitted for the first time, and although it was desirable that the amplest time should be afforded for consideration and discussion, still, as the minds of all men had long been directed to the principle of this great question, and all the imaginable details of every proposition had received the fullest investigation; and as the propositions before the House, although not in detail, had, in principle, been well considered; and although the proposed period was not very long, yet he considered it fully adequate to the fullest consideration, under the present circumstances. With respect to the proposition itself, he differed from some of the hon. gentlemen who had gone before him; and,
 784 s s s s s 785 s s s s s s
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he was sorry that this very important question, with which the public mind had been so much agitated, had been so long deferred. He did not, on that occasion, mean to trespass for many minutes on the attention of the House; but, at the same time, he felt that he should not acquit himself towards his constituents, and towards the public generally, if he did not state his opinion with respect to the principle on which the resolutions now introduced were founded; and which would be discussed more at large on a future occasion. His opinion was not completely in unison with that of any gentleman who had delivered his sentiments on the subject; because his views extended, perhaps, further than theirs. He, however, coincided entirely in almost the whole of what had fallen from the noble lord below him (lord Althorp). He was a decided advocate of free trade in every respect; although, in making that declaration, he knew that he must en-
 786 787
 Mr. Western  said, he could not help giving the right hon. Secretary credit for the mode in which he had opened these resolutions, as it was well calculated to afford the House the means of exercising upon them a fair consideration. For his own part, he hoped to be able to lay aside, to a certain extent, his preconceived opinions and established notions upon this subject, and to come to the propositions which had been laid upon the table in the fairest and most deliberate manner. He hoped that time would be afforded the House and the country to consider the novel system which was now proposed. He trusted that the House would well consider the probable danger of interfering with a system which had worked so well for so many years. This measure was in direct violation of the act of 1814, which was founded upon the act of Charles 2nd; the principle of which act had been the admiration of ages. He wished to God that the House had never abandoned the principles on which it had acted with so much success up to the year 1773. Even in 1815, when, owing to the hostility with America, there was no importation of corn, the country was in a better state than when we were at peace with all the world. In 1812, one hundred thousand quarters of corn had been imported; in 1813 we quarrelled with America; and, in 1814, an embargo was laid upon their ports; and, although there was a large proportion of foreign wheat and flour, not one grain entered the British ports. He could not help thinking that the new scale of duties proposed by the right hon. gentleman would, in the end, be more injurious to the landed interest, and more
 776 s s s s
 Mr. Portman  implored the House not to come to a hasty conclusion upon this most important of all important subjects, His object in rising at present was to im
 782 s s
 Mr. Canning  replied, that the quarter was now reckoned by the Winchester measure, and no alteration was intended in that respect.
 Mr. Canning  wished to say a few words in explanation. The hon. baronet had misapprehended his meaning to a certain extent. He was partly right, and partly wrong. He had not said that he wished to cast the balance in favour of free trade, but merely in favour of trade. The meaning which he attached to that expression might have been ascertained from what he had said on the first topic. It was clear that he, and those with whom he acted, could not entertain the intentions attributed to them by the hon. baronet; because, according to the very principle of those propositions, they had abandoned that measure, by admitting the necessity of a protecting duty.
 Mr. Canning  replied, that the averages at present were taken weekly. Instead, however, of taking an average from the average prices of several weeks, he intended that each week's average should regulate the duties for the week ensuing.
 Mr. Canning  said, that there was no intention to alter the existing mode of taking the averages: but there was an intention of so regulating the striking of them, as to prevent the frauds which were at present practised under them. He had no intention of getting rid of the system entirely, as it answered the purpose of obtaining an approximation to the real price of corn throughout the country. He thought that the evils of the present system would be diminished by shortening the period in which the averages were struck.
 Mr. Curwen  asked, whether the improvement in taking the averages was to be extended to Ireland?
 Sir T. Lethbridge  wished to say three or four words on the question before the committee. Now that he had heard the: proposition of the right hon. gentleman, he was free to say, that, though it did not come, with the disadvantages, and in the questionable shape which he had expected, was not quite to his mind; yet, after the dire anticipations and gloomy reports which had reached his ears, there was something of consolation in it for the agricultural interest. He declared himself opposed to the views which had just been disclosed to the committee by the hon. alderman who represented the city of London. The hon. alderman thought that the sum in the scale of prices for the importation of wheat was too high. Now, he, on the contrary, thought that it was too low; and for this reason—that the present measure was an experiment made upon the whole corn trade of the country, and it was impossible to foresee what would be the result of it. As he was one who had always stood up in parliament, not only for the protection, but also for the encouragement of agriculture, he should have liked to have seen the prices fixed at a lower rate whilst the experiment was making. As the committee was not called upon to discuss the proposition at present, he would give his best attention to it, in order that he might fully understand it in all its various bearings and ramifications. At the same time he should consider him-
 781
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, he entertained a very different opinion from that of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. This was a most important question. It was whether the House should legislate on the principle of prohibition, or admit corn on paying a certain duty; and he thought himself bound to state (for he had given the subject the most mature consideration) that he was in favour of prohibition in preference to duty. That was his deliberate and confirmed opinion; and he took the opportunity of stating it distinctly to the House. There was one observation made by the right hon. gentleman, which, he confessed, had filled his mind with the greatest surprise and distrust. He had stated, that in bringing forward these propositions he had endeavoured to cast the balance in favour of free trade— ["No, no," from Mr. Canning.] He "was certain the right hon. gentleman said, that the balance of principle, would be in favour of free trade, and the balance in price in favour of agriculture. If the principle of the proposed bill tended to abrogate the Corn-laws—and he was well assured that it would be the first step to the attainment of that object—he cautioned the House how it proceeded to legislate on such a dangerous measure.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, he had no objection to the House resolving itself into a committee; but he begged that such assent on his part might not be understood as pledging him, with respect to any ulterior measures which might be proposed for their adoption.
 Sir J, Wrottesley  concurred in the general view of the subject which the right hon. gentleman had taken; but he was obliged to differ with him as far as regarded part of its details. He deprecated the scale of duties proposed for barley and oats, and said that, in this respect, the suggestions of the right hon. gentleman were highly questionable.
 Mr. Ferguson  said, that as the law of 1815 had been tried and had failed, his majesty's ministers should be careful how
 777
 Sir John Newport  entirely agreed in the observations of the hon. member who spoke last. On the part of Ireland, he objected to the proposed regulation with respect to flour. It seemed to him to be conferring a premium on the poorer classes abroad, at the expense of our poor at home. This was an erroneous principle, and, on the part of Ireland, he protested against it. He hoped, however, that in the further discussion of these resolutions this point would be seen in its true light.
 Lord Althorp  was of opinion, that the propositions of the right hon. Secretary, so far from being likely to produce mischievous results, would be the means of causing a great improvement in the country, both with respect to its trade and agriculture. He spoke as the representative of an agricultural county, and he felt that it was his duty to protect the interests of his constituents; but he could not perceive that, by supporting the reso
 780
 Lord Milton  rose to express his appro
 783
 Lord Normanby  said, that although he was not immediately connected with Ireland, he nevertheless felt a strong interest in every thing which concerned that country. Being a warm friend to the important question which was shortly to be discussed, he could not help thinking that the speech of the hon. member for Derry, furnished the strongest argument why the present state of things should no longer continue in Ireland. For when that hon. member, who himself formed a part of his majesty's government, stated that an attempt had been made by that government to put down the Catholic Association, which still existed, and when he stated, and no doubt truly, that a Protestant could not sleep safely in his bed in Ireland, he would ask him, whether he could conscientiously vote for the continuance of a system so insufficient and so mischievous?
 Sir William Plunkett  rose, in consequence of the notice which he had last night given, to present the petition of the Roman Catholic Bishops of Ireland, praying for a repeal of the disabilities which affected their body. He was, he said, particularly anxious to call the attention of the House to this petition, because of the important information which it conveyed, the great respectability of the persons from whom it came, and who were entitled to every consideration from that House. It was not only the high station and character of these petitioners which gave them that consideration, but the opportunities which they had of possessing an intimate knowledge of the situation of the people, of whose views and wants they were the most competent judges. They stated, that they felt the greatest reluctance in coming forward in any manner to participate in the consideration of a merely political question; but they added, that they should be wanting in duty, both to the government and to the people, if they abstained from communicating their sentiments at the present crisis. They stated, that they should be wanting in their solemn duty, if they did not, at this alarming moment, raise their warning voice against the continuance of disabilities which prevented them from discharging their proper functions for the people. They pointed out the deep sense of degradation under which the Catholics laboured, and the galling superiority evinced by their Protestant brethren, in many instances not so meekly as it were to be wished it should be evinced. The petitioners did, in the most solemn and deliberate manner, refute
 793
 The Hon. George Agar Ellis  rose and said;—It is certainly not my intention, upon the present occasion, to trouble the House with any general arguments in favour of Catholic emancipation; being well aware, that a fitter occasion will occur, if I am inclined so to do, in a few days, when the question will be fairly before the House. I only wish to call the attention of the House, for a few moments, to one point alluded to in the petition just presented by the right hon. gentleman, from the Roman Catholic prelates of Ireland; namely, that which referred to the danger of any longer withholding from the Catholics the concession of their claims. Upon this subject, I am, I own, most anxious to take this earliest opportunity of imploring the House and the country, to weigh well the consequences of the decision to which they may come next week; and to believe that the question never came before them so fraught with vitally important considerations as it does at the present moment. I feel that as an individual member of par-
 794 795
 Mr. H. Maxwell  said, that he also found it impossible to agree in the panegyric which had been passed upon the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland. What had been their conduct during the last general election? He was prepared to prove, that, so far from confining themselves to their religious duties, they had been wholly occupied in political matters. Relative to their conduct upon this occasion, he had many facts, supported by affidavit, which, if he were to relate the whole of them, would astonish the House. It was well known, that their agents went through the country sowing the seeds of dissention between tenant and landlord, by making
 796 797
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  said, that an expression of his right hon. friend the Attorney-general for Ireland; namely, that the peace and tranquillity of Ireland were mainly attributable to the Roman Catholic clergy, had brought up several hon. gentlemen, who had endeavoured to invalidate this position. The House must certainly have perceived that it was a matter of mystery that persons connected with the government should come forward with such conflicting and contradictory statements. He would endeavour to explain that mystery. The two hon. members, the one for Derry and the other for Cavan, had given the House a very fair display of the spirit which prevailed in the north of Ireland; namely, hostility to the priesthood. He did not mean to impute any thing improper to either of those hon. members, but with this hint the House would readily see why, in the counties of Derry and Cavan, Catholics could not be less or more than men, and why it was unreasonable to expect any thing from them but a corresponding hostility. The right hon. baronet had uttered expressions, by which he imputed almost treason to the Catholic prelates of Ireland. But how had he supported his assertion? He had contented himself with merely denouncing an individual, Dr. Doyle. The case of the hon. member who followed him, about the freeholder with one eye, appeared to him to be a case calculated rather to come before an election committee under the Grenville act, than for any other purpose that he was aware of. The sum of that hon. member's objections to the Catholic priesthood of Ireland was, that they interfered with the election. Now, it appeared to him to be very unreasonable that Catholic priests should be refused an interference, which was constantly exercised by the Protestant clergy. If it was improper in the one, by what argument was it attempted to be shown that it was proper in the other? Was it meant to be contended, that an act was bad when com-
 798
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  said, he had no wish to prolong this debate, but he besought the House to look to the terms of the petition before them. The Catholic clergy, by whom it was signed, made a full and candid avowal of their opinions: they stated also, that those opinions (and of this fact the House would judge) were perfectly compatible with the safety of the country, and that therefore they ought to be freed from the political disabilities under which they had hitherto laboured. He was convinced that justice to the petitioners required that those opinions should be examined, and, if they could bear the investigation to which they were to be subjected, there could be no reason for hesitating to accept that solemn sanction of an oath which they offered. He was desirous that the discussion, which was somewhat discursive, should be continued
 799 800 801 802 803
 Lord F. L. Gower  said, that the hon. gentleman who had just spoken appealed to history in support of his opinions. But there were two ways of appealing to history. The one was to swallow down every imputation made, without taking the trouble of examining it; the other was by a free investigation of facts, and that in the spirit of Christian charity. When any of the members for Ireland mentioned the penal laws, and, on the part of their constituents, called for the repeal of them, they were answered, that there were no such laws in existence. Either all these laws should be abrogated, or those that were repealed should be again re-enacted. But, was there any man now who would dare to propose the re-enactment of those laws? Was it fair to suppose that education and the light of truth had flashed on the minds of Protestants only, and that not one single ray had penetrated the obscure bosom of a Catholic? He did not stand up there as the advocate either of the rev. Patrick Corr or of Dr. Doyle. They might have their faults, as all men had. It was not to be denied that great and tremendous power devolved on the Catholic clergy. But, under what system and code of laws did they possess that power? The hon. member for Cavan had told the House that it was their duty to encourage the conversion of the Catholics in Ireland —that conversion was the only remedy for the evils of that country. He applauded the suggestion of the hon. member; but it was not a new one. In the time of Charles the Second, the same suggestion was made by lord Tyrconnel to lord Bellasis, when Charles sought to reduce Ireland to subjection. Lord Tyrconnel told him, that the only remedy was to convert all the people of Ireland to the Catholic faith; on which lord Bellasis observed to Charles, that lord Tyrconnel was fool and madman enough to risk the loss of ten kingdoms for the sake of converting one soul.
 Sir William Plunkett  said, that after the speech of the noble lord he would have been well contented that the subject should drop, but it was impossible for him to let
 806 807 bellum plusquam civile 808 809
 Mr. Van Homrigh,  member for Drogheda, defended the Catholic bishop, Dr. Curtis, from the charge of improperly interfering in matters of state. There could not be a more loyal man than Dr. Curtis; who, in fact, owed his appointment to the good opinion of the duke of Wellington. The hon. gentleman proceeded further to observe, that at a dinner lately given by a distinguished nobleman at which Dr. Curtis was present, the memory of his royal highness the duke of York being proposed, Dr. Curtis made an eloquent speech, in, which he eulogized the virtues of the deceased prince, and lamented the language made use of, against his royal highness, by certain members of the association.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that before he came down to the House, he had formed a resolution not to express any opinion on the subject now under discussion. He should, therefore, cautiously abstain from offering any remarks at present on a question that was appointed for discussion on an early day. If, however, he carefully abstained from entering upon topics that would soon be discussed, he hoped no one would suppose that, on that account, he felt
 814 l. 815
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  said, he would not object to a liberal allowance to every branch of the royal family. Notwithstanding the distress felt throughout the country, he would not now oppose a grant for that purpose; but he looked upon the present proposition as one of the most ill-timed measures that was ever submitted to parliament. The very day it was introduced, the House had heard from the right hon. gentleman a most gloomy description of the condition of the people. In his magisterial capacity, upwards of eighty persons had been summoned before him for non-payment of church and poor rates, which could not be enforced against more than ten. He was astonished that the right hon. gentleman should have courage to make the proposition on the very evening when a committee of emigration was moved for, to provide means for sending the industrious but distressed people out of the country.
 Sir R. Heron  observed, that the duke
 819
 Mr. Brownlow  said, he would take that opportunity of stating, that he had received a letter from the colleague of the hon. member for Derry, stating that he was preparing to send him a petition, signed by 3,000 persons in the county of Londonderry, in favour of Catholic Emancipation. The letter begged of him to present the petition, and, as he presumed it was now upon its way to him, he thought this was not an unseasonable moment for stating, that such a document was in existence. He hoped to receive it before the discussion upon the question came on.
 Mr. Brownlow  replied, that it had merely been stated to him, that the petition was signed by 3,000 persons.
 Mr. E. Davenport  seconded the motion. When the distress which prevailed in the manufacturing towns was considered, ministers came, he thought, with a very bad grace to propose a grant of this nature. There was one contingency not provided for by the bill. Suppose his majesty should contract another matrimonial alliance [a laugh]. What then was to become of this 9,000 l
 Mr. Dawson  now presented several petitions from the county of Wicklow; and, amongst others, one purporting to be the petition of the county. In introducing them, he said that such was the feeling of the petitioners, that they had expressed their determination to resist any further concessions being made to the Roman Catholics.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he could not say. It
 792
 Mr. Dawson  interfered, and said, that the passage which he had quoted in his speech was to be found in another petition from a parish in Wicklow. The words were, that the petitioners "deprecated the proceedings which were now taking, by misrepresentation, to carry a measure called Catholic Emancipation, or rather Catholic domination in Ireland.
 Mr. Dawson  said, he entertained a very great respect for the right hon. baronet, as all were bound to do who had observed the right hon. baronet's public life, but still he thought it too much of the right hon. baronet to presume upon that respect, and charge him with making seditious speeches to his constituents in Ireland, and in his place in that House.
 Mr. George Dawson  said, that although he had no wish unnecessarily to lengthen the discussion, he was induced to make a few observations, in consequence of the importance which the Attorney-general for Ireland had conferred upon the petition by having it read at length. There could be no question that it would form an important feature in the debate which was fixed for Monday, and he was therefore desirous that its tendency and merits should be fully understood. The petitioners stated, that the surety which they offered for their good intentions ought to be received; but never yet had any means been discovered, by which the allegiance of the Roman Catholic priesthood could be bound. There were numerous instances on record, in which the Roman Catholic clergy had proffered an oath to confirm the allegiance which they professed, and had
 804 incubus 805
 Mr. G. Dawson  said, he had the honour of being intrusted with sundry petitions against the Roman Catholic claims, signed by numbers of the most wealthy and respectable Protestants of Ireland. The duty of presenting those petitions he fulfilled most willingly and cheerfully. The opinions which he had so often expressed on the subject of those claims remained unaltered; or, he might rather say, had acquired strength. The first petition to which he would call the attention of the House was signed by upwards of twenty two thousand of the resident Protestants in the county of Derry. He was anxious
 788 789
 Mr. G. Moore  supported the petition.
 Lord Nugent  presented the petition of the Roman Catholics of Great Britain, praying to be relieved from the legal disabilities under which they laboured at present. In presenting it, the noble lord stated, that upon several previous occasions he had presented to the House petitions from that portion of his majesty's subjects which had now intrusted him again with the duty of representing their case to Parliament, and as they had no new grievance to complain of, they had not introduced any new matter into' the substance of their petition. That petition was signed by twenty-three thousand persons, and might, had it been deemed necessary, have been still more numerously signed. He did not, however, press it on the consideration of the House, so much on account of the numbers who had signed it, as on account of the injustice under which they suffered. If, instead of being the petition of the Catholic aristocracy and proprietary of the country, the petition had been the petition of but one individual, and that, individual of the obscurest description, he should have felt it to be his duty to call the attention of parliament to the singular grievances under which he described himself to labour. The petitioners, however, deserved the regard of the House, on account of their being distinguished by their rank, their properly, their learning, and their unwearied and unimpeached loyalty. They said, that the restrictions were imposed upon them originally under false pretences and for false objects, and were now continued under pretences and for objects equally false. They desired the House to consider the question of emancipation, not as an Irish but as a British question; and requested him to stale to it, that they had put forth two declarations, which were appended to their petition; one containing an explanation of the manner in which they paid allegiance to the king, and another containing an explanation of their religious tenets, as
 816 817 818
 Mr. Proby  said, he had lived amongst the Protestants of property, in the county of Wicklow, and he was enabled to say that their opinions were not adverse to the Roman Catholics.
 Mr. Henry Grattan  asked whether the Wicklow petition was the emanation of a county meeting?
 Mr. Henry Grattan  said, that though he did not represent the county of Wicklow, he possessed property enough in it to know that this petition was not agreed to at a county meeting. He should have a petition shortly to present, which would speak the real sentiments of that county. It was not to be wondered at, that a spirit of hostility to the Catholic claims prevailed in Ireland, when such pains were taken to keep it alive.
 Mr. James Grattan  thought that the principle of fair play should be extended to both sides. The letter of J. K. L. might be unwise and inflammatory, but he thought it had been matched in violence by a speech which was lately delivered in Ireland by the noble lord whose motives bad been advocated by the hon. gentleman who last addressed the House. The hon. member read an extract from a newspaper of a speech purporting to be delivered by lord Farnham, at a bible meeting in Ireland. The first sentence of the extract was to this effect—that notwithstanding all the efforts that had lately been made in Ireland to spread the light of the gospel over that benighted land, so strongly had bigotry and superstition taken root, owing to the control of the priests, that those efforts were likely to prove unavailing. The hon. gentleman said that the noble lord imputed to the Catholics a desire to subvert the established religion. The speech of the noble lord had been printed in London. If it was falsely ascribed to him, let him deny it; but let us not impute censure to others, unless we were free from blame ourselves. Would to God that Ireland was all Protestant; then parties would not be arrayed against each other as at present they were. Let them not seek to widen the differences that already unhappily existed by calumniating each other in all the bitterness of party spirit. Unworthy motives had been ascribed to the Catholic clergy; but he, knew so many instances of a contrary nature, that he never would consent to stigmatize them as a corrupt and intriguing body. In the parish where he resided he knew a Catholic priest who for thirty years, had officiated with so much benefit to his flock, and so much credit to himself, that when he died he was lamented by persons of every religious persuasion. He knew also another priest whose loss was so deeply felt in the parish where he died, that several Protestant gentlemen had proposed that a subscription should be entered into, for the purpose of erecting a monument to his memory.
 Mr. James Grattan  said, he rose to answer the inflammatory, or what would be called in Ireland the seditious, speech of the hon. member for Londonderry. That hon. member had taken upon himself to state that of the county of Wicklow which was not the fact; namely, that the feelings of the people of property there were inimical to further concessions to the Roman Catholics. This was not the fact, neither was it the fact that the yeomanry represented the proprietary of that county. There might be good reasons why the Protestant yeomanry were unfriendly to the Catholic claims, seeing that in the rebellion of 1798, they had imbibed notions that the Catholics were pursuing objects incompatible with their safety; but those were prejudices which they would soon relinquish, if their feelings were not inflamed by such speeches as the House had heard that night. He distinctly denied that the majority of the Protestant proprietary of Wicklow was unfriendly to the Catholics. He was himself no admirer of the Catholic Association, because he thought, however great their wrongs, that their zeal was sometimes intemperate. Many things were said and done by the Association, which had better be left alone; but still he hoped that that body would persevere in the pursuit of their lawful and laudable purposes, not by intemperance, but by moderation and firmness. The hon. member had stated, that the Protestants were the oppressed party in Ireland. He called upon the hon. member to name any instance in which Protestants had been oppressed.
 790
 Mr. L. Foster  said, he was desirous of offering a few observations respecting the
 810 811
 Mr. Monck  described the various sources of the duke's income, and contended that his royal highness had already a sufficiency to support his dignity. The additional allowance was most unseemly in the present state of public distress.
 Mr. Wells  said, he could not conscientiously approve of any addition to the salary of the duke of Clarence.
 Mr. Hume  wished to ask the right hon. gentleman how, as an honest man, he; could propose such a vote, when he must know that as a financier, he was bank
 820 l.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, that the situation which the petitioners held in the country was one of the first importance; and he had no doubt but that the power which they possessed was used for good purposes. It was a power, however, which was greater than it ought to be; because it was estranged from the law of the land. Would to God that the causes of animosity in Ireland were removed for ever, and that the distinction of sect was no longer in existence ! Those who were excluded from the benefits of equal laws imagined that they were suffering for the sake of their religion; and they looked to that religion, instead of looking to the government of the country for aid and succour. He wished that the power held by the Catholic priesthood could be looked upon with more confidence; and that the Catholics could place more reliance on their Protestant fellow subjects. The Catholics, indeed, looked to that House with a strong degree of hope. They looked also with confidence to the individual at the head of his majesty's government in Ireland, who, they believed, would right their wrongs if he could; It was said, that the Roman Catholic bishops had identified themselves with the Catholic Association; but he denied that they had done so. He looked upon the association with no very favourable eyes; but its origin and existence could be traced to the peculiar situation of Ireland. The association was the necessary consequence of the state in which the Catholics were placed. It was idle to think of crushing the only medium through which the Catholics of Ireland could be heard. They must have an organ to give expression to their wrongs. The members of the association acted always upon the system of obtaining a hearing for their cause. He believed them to be in earnest in wishing for Catholic emancipation, although the contrary had been urged by their enemies. He believed that the association acted on a mistaken feeling, with regard to the means which they took to effect their object. They appeared to be in total error as to the nature of the English people, in supposing that, by threats, they could frighten them into concession. It was not by menaces or intimidation that the people of this country were to be gained over. He denied that the Roman Catholic bishops had ever identified them-
 813
 Sir George Hill  said, he did not mean to infer that the Catholic bishops had identified themselves with the association. It was notorious, however, that the priesthood generally, though perhaps not any of the petitioners, were guilty of meddling with matters out of their province.
 Sir G. Hill  observed, that as the petitioners had identified themselves with the
 812
 Sir George Hill  said, that with the objections which he entertained to these claims, it was impossible for him to refrain from one or two observations, in opposition to the panegyric which had been passed on the Roman Catholic clergy. It was notorious in Ireland, and it ought to be quite as notorious in this country, that the whole body of the Roman Catholic clergy had identified themselves with the Catholic Association; that it had joined them in all their schemes and projects; and that the demagogues and agitators of the public peace by whom that association had been established, were upheld and encouraged by them. He would ask the House to look over the petition, and see if the name of Dr. Doyle was attached to it? Was the name of that individual attached to it who was so well known in Ireland by the initials I. K. L.? He did not mean to dispute with his majesty's Attorney-general for Ireland the cause of the peace of that country; but he would ask where the Roman Catholic clergy were from 1819 to 1823, when the western and southern parts of Ireland were in a state little short of rebellion? Did they put down those disturbances? No. They were put down by a two-fold number of troops. He had attended the trials in the south of Ireland for a conspiracy; and it was proved upon those trials that seventeen counties had sent delegates to a meeting, the object of which was to separate the two countries; but he had never discovered that the Roman Catholic clergy had used any means to prevent such meeting, or to divert the people from the object which they had in view.
 Sir George Hill  asked, whether the petition alluded to was from the Roman Catholics or the Protestant inhabitants of Londonderry?
 Sir George Hill . —I venture to say there are not two Protestant names to it.
 Sir John Newport  requested that the passage to which the hon. member alluded might be read.
 Sir John Newport  said, that this was another instance in which statements had been made which were not borne out by facts. The hon. member for Derry had stated, that the petitioners were determined to resist any attempts made by the Catholics to obtain a restitution of their rights; but, upon reference to the petition, no such sentiment was to be found. Much had been said of the intemperance of the Catholic Association, but he was sure there never was there a member of that body who exceeded in violence of language or temper the speech which the hon. member had made to the apprentice boys of Derry. If he (sir J. Newport) were to make such a speech to a Catholic assembly in the south of Ireland as the hon. member for Deny made to a protestant meeting, he would be charged with a design of exciting civil war in Ireland.
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose, to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice. In bringing this great question before the House, he felt, he trusted, a
 826 827 828 atrox prœliis, discors seditionibus; 829 830 831 832
 Mr. Secretary Peel  observed, across the table, that the stipulations of the treaty did not refer to the Catholics generally; but only to those who were resident in Limerick, or any other garrison then in the possession of the Irish.
 Sir Francis Burdett  continued. He said, he entertained a very different opinion of the interpretation of that treaty. Odd, indeed, would it be, if those who held out longest in arms, and therefore, did the greatest extent of mischief to the ruling powers, should yet be considered to be the most entitled to peculiar grace and favour. It was, however, quite impossible upon any fair principle, indeed it was monstrous, to suppose that this treaty solely related to the garrison of Limerick; for what said the ninth article of that treaty?—"The oath to be administered to such Roman Catholics as submit to their majesties' government shall be the oath aforesaid, and no other." The oath referred to was the oath of allegiance, "and no other;" and the article comprehended all submitting Catholics generally. But how had faith been kept with them, when it was by the agency of new oaths, and nothing else, that they had been kept ever since from the enjoyment of their proper privileges. As far as the articles of Limerick went, the case was, he thought, conclusive: faith was pledged, and faith had been broken. But even in the right
 833 834 835 836 837 838 839 840 841 842 843 844 "Curandum in primis, ne magna injuria fiat Fortibus ac miseris—" fortes ac miseri, 845 846 847 "I am further commanded to state, that the testimonies of dutiful and affectionate attachment which his Majesty has received from all classes and descriptions of his Irish subjects, have made the deepest impression on his mind, and that he looks forward to the period when he shall revisit them with the strongest feelings of satisfaction. His Majesty trusts that, in the mean time, not only the spirit of loyal union, which now so generally exists, will remain unabated, and unimpaired, but that every cause of irritation will be avoided and discountenanced, mutual forbearance and goodwill observed and encouraged, and a security be thus afforded for the continuance of that concord amongst themselves, which is not less essential to his Majesty's happiness than to their own, and which it has been the chief object of his Majesty, during his residence in this country, to cherish and promote. His Majesty well knows the generosity and warmth of heart which distinguish the character of his faithful people in Ireland; and he leaves them with a heart full of affection towards them, and with a confident and gratifying persuasion, that this parting admonition and injunction of their Sovereign will not be given in vain." 848 849 "Hic locust est, partes ubi se via findit in ambas: Dextera, quæ Ditis magni sub mœnia tendit; Hâc iter Elysium nobis; et læva malorum Exercet pœnas, et ad impia Tartara mittit."
 Mr. Cust  said, that the present was the seventh or eighth Session in which he had given his opinion on this important subject, and that opinion, he must say, remained unaltered by any thing which he had seen or heard since he voted on its first discussion. One of the great grounds on which the question had been brought forward was, that it would bring about a change for the better in the condition of Ireland. No man was more anxious for such a change than he was. A change was necessary; for in fact it was almost impossible that Ireland could remain as she was; but then emancipation was not the means by which so desirable a change could be effected. The only hope for Ireland was the success of the reformation in that country. It was asked, could they control six millions of people? He did not mean to say that they could; but he thought the argument founded on numbers was not conclusive. Those who rested the expediency of conceding emancipation on numbers, reminded him of the general who, being surrounded by enemies, collected round him a quantity of combustible materials, and threatened that, if hard pressed, he would set fire to the train, and he and his opponents should all go to the devil together. He was of
 893 l. 894
 Mr. Brownlow  said, he felt that it was perfectly idle, on his part, to attempt to add any thing to the unanswerable arguments that had been adduced by the hon. baronet, the member for Westminster, in support of the claims of the Catholics. But he could not avoid joining his prayers and entreaties to those of the hon. baronet, for the success of this great question. The hon. gentleman who had preceded him, had travelled over every land on the face of the globe, in search of materials for his speech. There was no country, he believed, the hon. gentleman had not mentioned, except unfortunate Ireland, which was the subject of the present discussion. This was a case of such absorbing interest and all-engrossing importance, that he hoped hon. members had come in a serious mood, with a patient temper, and with minds stripped of preconceived opinions, prepared to listen attentively to the evidence given by the Irish members, and finally, go to the division with all that awful sense of responsibility which it became men to feel, who were about to bring in a verdict which would be to Ireland that of national life or death. He had heard that unseemly language had been used on this subject out of doors. He would not say that it had found its way into their debates. But he had heard, that some of the opponents of the Catholic question had declared their determination "to die in the last ditch, to show a good fight in defence of their cause, and if necessary, to nail the colours to the mast, and go down with the ship." Now, he asked, had any man of common sense on the other side of the question, who was disposed to speak the truth, whether, if they succeeded by a few miserable majorities, in defeating the Catholics, they could believe the system they were upholding would be safe or permanent? Any man who would answer that question in the affirmative, must be very little versed in the history
 889 890 891 892
 Mr. George Bankes  rose and said:— 877 878 879 880 881 882 883 884 885 886 887 888
 Mr. George Dawson  said, that, while he differed entirely from the sentiments expressed by the noble lord who had just sat down, he could not avoid congratulating the House upon the acquisition of eloquence and talent which it had obtained in the person of that noble member. He rejoiced that the subject of Catholic disability was now before the House; and, whether the result of that question should be favourable or unfavourable, he hoped the effect would be, to tranquillize the country. If favourable, he trusted the Roman Catholics would learn moderation, and, if unfavour-
 855 856 857 858 859 860 861
 Mr. George Moore , member for Dublin, said, it was impossible that a new member of that House should not feel great difficulty in rising to oppose claims, which had been advanced and supported with so much ability and eloquence. It was impossible that such a member, when he was called upon to redress a nation's wrongs, to vindicate a nation's honour, and restore a nation's rights, should not have great difficulty to encounter in opposing such an appeal, from the enthusiasm which such topics were naturally calculated to excite. He was satisfied, however, that the view which he took of this question, and which those who concurred with him in opinion took of it, was not only consistent with civil and religious liberty, but indispensably necessary, with a view to the integrity and stability of the constitution. This was not a question of national injury or oppression, but a question of relative constitutional rights. It was a question to be considered not with reference to the feelings of any particular class of his majesty's subjects, but with reference to the security of the whole kingdom. The question was now brought forward under circumstances materially different from those under which it had been submitted to the House on all former occasions. In all former discussions, the most moderate and the most zealous advocates of the claims of the Catholics had concurred in accompanying their propositions with some security or other, which they deemed sufficient to guard the Protestant church and the Protestant establishments. From the total silence of the hon. baronet, and of the noble lord who seconded the motion, he was induced to think that the idea of security was altogether abandoned; and he was confirmed in that opinion, when he referred to the language of the petition which the hon. baronet had himself introduced to the House. In that petition, the Roman Catholic petitioners emphati-
 895 896 897 898
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  said, it was not his intention to detain the House by going at length into the discussion of the general merits of the Catholic question. He was aware that it had been already so often and so ably treated by men far more competent than he could pretend to be, that it would be a waste of time for him to go over the various grounds on which it rested. But to-night there were features—features of a modern character—to which he felt himself entitled to allude, and to request the consideration of the House—features which had been pointed out and criticised by the enemies of Catholic emancipation, as affording grave reasons for opposition, but on which he, on the contrary, would rely as grounds for concession. He referred to the conduct of the freeholders, and to the interference of the Catholic clergy, at the late general election in Ireland. He would first speak of the body of men which he had mentioned last in order—men, whose unostentatious piety, and zealous discharge of their professional duties, were unsurpassed by the clergy of any other persuasion, but who unhappily, had been the objects of as much groundless aspersion and unmerited obloquy as, he would venture to say, party spirit, even in Ireland, had ever bespattered the victims of its malice. God forbid that his motives, in defending the Catholic clergy should for a moment be misunderstood; God forbid it should be supposed that he was about to vindicate the interference of churchmen in temporal affairs: So much the contrary, that he protested he knew no language strong enough to express his condemnation of such a practice; but owing its origin to the crabbed and crooked policy of the very men who were foremost to cry out against it, it excited in him no surprise, but some regret, that the
 874 875 "Was ever  voter Was ever  voter 876
 Mr. R. Martin  rose amidst loud and repeated cries to adjourn. He denied that the Catholic priesthood had exerted their influence improperly in the late elections in Ireland. It was true that the Catholic clergy and the Catholic leaders used their influence to secure the return of those who were friendly to their cause; but such influence, he contended, was perfectly natural. He confessed, for his own part, that he was indebted for his return to the influence of the Catholic clergy, and to Mr. O'Connell's assistance he was also deeply indebted [a laugh.] He would repeat that he was proud of such aid, and to his dying day he should raise his grateful voice in defence of that gentleman and the Catholic clergy; for it was to them he was indebted for the privilege which he now enjoyed, of raising his voice in their behalf. Aye, the Catholic interest sent him to parliament in opposition to the influence of that government in whose service he had grown grey, and to whom he had given his vote for forty years.
 899
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he would not trouble the House long, still there were some points of his hon. friend's speech to which be felt it necessary to offer a short reply. On previous discussions of this question, he had refrained from more than shortly pointing out the reasonableness of the Catholic claims, and giving his vote; but the line of argument followed by his hon. friend, induced him to depart from the course which he had hitherto followed. The hon. baronet and the noble lord near him, had called on the opponents of the measure which they recommended, to suggest some other measure calculated to give peace to the country. With that call his hon. friend had not complied. His hon. friend agreed with the hon. baronet, that the state of Ireland was one not only of suffering, but of danger; but, according to the arguments of his hon. friend, they were not only not to relieve, but to suppress and subdue. But, if the opponents of the Catholics should have the will to adopt this latter alternative, had they the means of executing it; or did they think that the Irish nation would submit to it? From some expression which fell from his hon. friend opposite, one would have thought that he had formerly been friendly to the Catholic claims, but had altered his views, in consequence of the practices of the Roman Catholic clergy, which he had stated to the House. Against the return of Mr. Stuart, not one but two or three petitions had been presented; and if the facts stated in those petitions were true, there could be no doubt that the return for Waterford must be set aside. But the petitioners had shrunk from examination, [hear, hear]—no; they had not shrunk from examination, but they had shrunk from the cross-examination, of the committee, and had put those affidavits into the hands of the hon. member for Derry; who, forgetting all his kind feelings towards the Roman Catholics and the Roman Catholic priests particularly, had come to the conclusion, that the Roman Catholic priests had done every thing laid to their charge in those affidavits; and the hon. member, acting upon that conclusion, had come down to the House, and called upon
 869 870 871 872 873
 Sir J. Newport  moved the adjournment of the debate owing to the lateness of the hour, and the improbability of the question being decided without, at least, another night's discussion.
 Lord Morpeth  said, that, in rising to second this resolution, he was extremely happy to observe, that much of the difficulty which he must necessarily feel on such an occasion was removed by the able and excellent address which had been delivered by the hon. mover. He had, in anticipation, made use of every argument which the supporters of the Catholic claims could adduce, to show that emancipation was a measure equally demanded by policy and by justice. The hon. baronet had supported his view of the question with such powerful reasoning, with such forcible and eloquent illustration, that it would be worse than useless for him to dwell on topics which had been so ably handled, or to dilate on conclusions which had been rendered clear and obvious to all. The measure which it was the object of the hon. baronet's motion to
 850 851 852 853 854
 The Master of the Rolls  then rose. He said, that he gave the noble lord, who had just sat down, the fullest credit for the manliness of conduct which he had displayed on this occasion. Connected as this question was with the vital interests of the empire, it was worthy of the most serious and mature consideration. If, after having given it that consideration, any gentleman felt that he ought to change the opinions he had previously held, nothing could be more manly or more honourable, than to make an avowal of that change fairly and openly in the face of the country. In the present instance, he thought the manner in which it had been made was as creditable to the noble lord, as the avowal itself. For himself, as the representative of a highly distinguished and numerous body of constituents, who had considered maturely and felt deeply, even intensely, on this subject, he trusted that he might be permitted to state to the House his opinions respecting the proposition now before it. 906 907 908 909 910 veto 911 912 913 914 915 ultimatum 916 917 918 919 920 921 922 923 924 925 926 927
 Sir William Plunkett  rose, and was received by the House with much cheering. He began by observing, that it might be considered presumptuous in him to offer himself to the attention of the House, immediately after the very able address of his right hon. and learned friend; but the subject was one in which he felt so deep an interest, that he trusted he should be excused if he ventured to offer his humble suggestions, in answer to the statements of his right hon. and learned friend. Before he offered a word in reply to what had fallen from him, he begged to assure his right hon. friend, that no man had a higher respect than he had for his great talents and acquirements, and he hoped he would give him credit for an anxious wish to avoid, in the remarks he was about to offer to the House, any thing which might have even the appearance of giving a false or exaggerated colouring to any of the arguments which he had used. It was his desire, and his intention, to meet his right hon. friend fairly in argument, and in what he should state he hoped his right hon. friend would give him credit for that intention. 929 930 931 932 933 934 935 936 937 938 939 "Forasmuch as the Queen's Majesty is otherwise assured of the faith and loyalty of the temporal Lords of her high Court of Parliament, therefore this act shall not extend to compel any temporal peer of or above the degree of baron of this realm, to take or pronounce the oath aforesaid, or to incur any penalty limited in this act, for not taking or refusing the same." 940 "Whereas certain penalties and disabilities have been imposed on persons in communion with the See of Rome and their children, and certain principles have been imputed to them which they are willing to disclaim;" and then proceeds to provide for them the following oath and declaration:—'1st, I solemnly declare that I do profess the Roman Catholic religion.' 2nd, 'I promise and swear that I will be faithful, and bear true allegiance to his Majesty.'" 941 "That the proclamation of 1763 had been found, upon experience, to be inapplicable to the state and circumstances of the said province, the inhabitants whereof amounted to above sixty-five thousand persons, professing the religion of the church of Rome, and enjoying an established form of constitution and system of laws, by which their persons and properties had been protected, governed, and ordered, for a long series of years, from the first settlement of the said province." It therefore withdraws the proclamation, and enacts, "that for the more perfect security and case of the minds of the inhabitants of the said province, his majesty's subjects professing the religion of the church of Rome, in the said province of Quebec, may have, hold, and enjoy, the free exercise of the religion of the church of Rome, subject to the king's supremacy, declared by the act of the 1st of Elizabeth, and that the clergy of the said religion may hold, receive, and enjoy, their accustomed dues and rights, with respect to such persons only as shall profess the Roman Catholic religion;" and for this purpose it enacts, "that no person professing the religion of the church of Rome, within the said province, shall be required to take the oath required by the 1st of Elizabeth, but shall take the oath thereby provided:" namely, the oath of allegiance as taken by the Roman Catholics here, "and thereupon shall enjoy all their customs, usages, and civil rights, consistently with their allegiance to his Majesty, and their subjection to the Crown and Parliament of Great Britain." "I voted last session, if a particular vote could be distinguished, in unanimity, for an establishment of the church of England conjointly with the establishment which was made some years before by act of parliament, of the Roman Catholic, in the French conquered country of Canada.
 942 943 944 945 de facto; de facto 946 947 "Hine exaudiri gemitus, iræque leonum Vincla recusantum." 948 l 949 950 951 952 953 954 955 956 957
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose. If he were, he said, to consult merely his own personal convenience, it would incline him to assent to the proposition of the hon. baronet, for what prospect of personal ad-
 958 "All the inhabitants or residents of Limerick, or any other garrison now in the possession of the Irish, and all officers and soldiers now in arms under any commission of king James, or those authorised by him to grant the same, in the several counties of Limerick, Clare, Kerry, Cork, and Mayo, or any of them; and all the commissioned officers in their majesties' quarters that belong to the Irish regiments now in being, that are treated with, and who are not prisoners of war, or have
 959 960 961 962 963 not 964 965 966 967 968 969 970 971 972 973 974 975 976 977 978 979 980
 Mr. Brougham , on his rising, was unable to proceed for a few moments, owing to the passage of several members through the crowded House after the speech of Mr. Peel. The hon. and learned gentleman observed, as the Speaker called to order, that the time of the night, and the state of the atmosphere, were certainly unfavourable for a speech. There were cooler spots in the neighbourhood, and without going far, to which gentlemen might retire. He could assure hon. members that he was only giving that advice which he should be glad to follow himself, under similar circumstances. The hon. and learned member then proceeded:—At so late an hour of the night, and after the able arguments which had been used, both on that and on the preceding evening, by so many noble and hon. gentlemen about him, he could expect only to weaken, rather than strengthen, the impression which those arguments had made, if he were to go deeply, or at any length, into the question; and more especially, after the address which had just been heard from his right hon. and learned friend, the Attorney-general for Ireland; and in which that right hon. and learned gentleman had appeared almost to exceed himself—an address in which wit and eloquence had seemed for a while to strive for the mastery, until conciliatory wisdom stepped in to bear the palm away from both;—after such an address as this, and rising, as he did, at the latter end of a long and anxious controversy, he felt that, he could add little, very little, to that which had already been slated; and that he should best discharge his duty to The House, and to the cause which he desired to serve, by confining that which he had to offer within the narrowest, possible limits. 982 983 984 985 986 987 988 989 990 data 991 992
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose, and said:—After, Sir, the length to which this debate has been protracted, the House has a sufficient security, both in my discretion and in my weariness, that I shall not trespass at any length upon its patience; although I should have felt it both disrespectful to the House, and unbecoming in myself, if I went to a division upon this question, without stating the grounds on which I give my vote. In doing so, I hope it will not be considered inexpedient, if I recall the attention of the House, to what seems very frequently to have been unattended to in the course of this debute—I mean the real nature of the question which is before us. The hon. baronet, who has brought this question forward, has introduced it with a prodigality of argument, in which he was most fully justified. He has treated the resolution, as if the whole question was to be argued before the
 994 995 996 997 usque ad nauseam 998 hisce auribus 999 1000 "Sir, we have had the honour of receiving from Mr. Planta, a letter directed to his Majesty's law officers, stating that his holiness the Pope had forwarded a communication to his Majesty, announcing his elevation to the Papal Throne, and that this communication has been accompanied by a complimentary letter from Cardinal Gonsalvi to his Majesty's principal Secretary for Foreign Affairs; and, further, a question having arisen in that right hon. gentleman's mind, whether, in the event of his noticing or replying to these communications, he would be, in the opinion of his Majesty's law officers, according to the existing law of the land, liable to a premunire; we are of opinion, that under the act of 5th Elizabeth, chap. i. sec. 12, any one allowing or admitting the jurisdiction of the See of Rome in this realm, is subject, for the first offence, to a premunire; and as, in the present case, the Pope claims to exercise authority over the Roman Catholic church in these countries, we are of opinion that an answer to the letters referred to might be interpreted as a sanction of these claims to authority, and, consequently, that the party so communicating might render himself liable to the penalty of premunire. (Signed) "R. GIFFORD. J. S. COPLEY."
 The Master of the Rolls .—That is not my opinion.
 Mr. Secretary Canning .—No; it is not the right hon. gentleman, but Burns' Justice, which is my present authority, [a laugh]. Such were some of the penal-
 1001
 The Master of the Rolls .—I consider that the opinion referred to was contained in a private letter—[Cries of "order, order; chair, chair!"]—and I doubt whether the right hon. Secretary has more than a copy, the original being in my possession.
 Mr. Secretary Canning .—Sir, I do not exactly understand this interruption. It is, in my opinion, most extraordinary. I assert, that this is a public document, on the production of which depends the judgment to be pronounced, as to whether or not I have properly executed my public duty as a minister of the Crown. With this view I called for the opinion of his majesty's law officers, and received it, not in a non-official, but in an official way; and that being the case, I have a right to refer to it [cheers]. Perhaps, Sir, I might not have referred to the matter, had it not been for the extraordinary language made
 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008
 Sir Francis Burdett  said, he would not add one word to what had been so ably and eloquently urged, by the right hon. Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He was quite willing to adopt the alteration just suggested by the hon. baronet.
 Lord Eliot  said, that when this question had been last before the House, his opinion had been, that to make any further concessions to the Roman Catholics would
 904 905
 Sir Charles Forbes  rose amidst loud cries of "question." After several minutes had elapsed the hon. baronet said, his object in rising was to explain the reason why he had voted against the Catholic question two years ago. He had then
 1009
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that his opinion upon this great question remained unchanged. When the hon. and learned gentleman opposite had stated, that the Catholics had been promised a recognition of their rights, his attention was roused; but, what was his surprise when the hon. and learned gentleman read, from the journal of that House, an extract of a Speech of his late majesty's, in which he pretended to have found that promise? Now, not only could he not see any such promise in the extract which had been read, but he was perfectly at a loss to conceive by what means the hon. and learned gentleman had elicited any such meaning from the passage, and arrived at any such interpretation of it. When he considered the phrase, that "they should be admitted to the blessings of the British constitution," he was still more at a loss. The hon. and learned gentleman had told the House that it meant "sitting in parliament." But, could he find no other blessings? If hon. gentlemen would consider for a moment the time at which that Speech was made, the real meaning of it could not be mistaken. In the preceding year martial law had been in force in Ireland; and then, after the Union, the king came down, and said, that the people of that country should be admitted to the blessings of the British constitution. When this fact was recollected, it was easy to see that it was to the repeal of this law, and the restoration of the ordinary tribunals of this country, that the expression, holding out a promise of the extension of the blessings of the constitution was applicable. He had never attempted to conceal from himself the state of Ireland; but he differed totally from those hon. gentlemen who fondly imagine that Catholic emancipation
 993
 Mr. Hart Davis  said, he thought that the Roman Catholics of Great Britain enjoyed at that moment as much toleration as was consistent with the civil liberties of the country. He felt that, representing a large population, he should not do his duty to his constituents, if he did not express his own opinion and theirs on this important subject. It appeared that the House had now been for more than twenty years discussing, in various shapes, the proposition before them. It had formerly been introduced as a bill; and now it was placed in the form of a proposition, that the House should go into a committee, or something like a committee, for the purpose of inquiring what could be done for the Roman Catholics. This might be a mode well enough calculated to catch a stray vote, but he thought it was not the proper one in which to discuss this ques-
 903
 Sir John Newport  said, that after he had so frequently received that indulgence of the House which was now extended to him, he was quite sensible that he should not be justified in abusing that indulgence, for too long a period. He now rose for the purpose of expressing those opinions which he had entertained for years before he had entered parliament, and during the whole time that he had been a member of that House, now nearly
 900 901 902
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he thought that the place which he filled as a minister of the Crown, and the situation in which he stood with respect to the question of the Corn-laws, made it incumbent upon him to reply to some of the observations which he had heard, both from the noble lord behind him and the hon. baronet who had just sat down, whose direct appeal to his opinion rendered that reply the more necessary, because he felt that it was his lot to have been the original proposer of a plan, founded on the question of the Corn-laws, though different from that which was now about to be considered. He owed it to his own character, and to the honour of those in conjunction with whom he acted, to express his cordial and unequivocal concurrence in the wisdom and policy of the proposed resolutions which he had now the great and peculiar satisfaction to support. He had no false delicacy to plead, for he confessed he felt no shame to admit, that his opinion with respect to this question was different now from what it had been. Where, then, was the justice of charging him with acting inconsistently, because he now, from conviction, supported a different view of the question from that which he had formerly entertained? At the time to which the hon. baronet had referred, he held a different situation in his majesty's government to that which he had now the honour to fill. At that time he was not one of his majesty's advisers, as he was now, and therefore he was so far released from the responsibility of his acts. Besides, he remembered distinctly to have said, when he proposed the measure, that it was not merely a choice of difficulties, but a choice of evils. He matured and prepared that measure it was true; but if he now supported a plan which, on further consideration, he conceived to be more efficient and beneficial, where, he would ask, was the mighty inconsistency with which the hon. baronet thought proper to accuse him? No man, he contended, was fit to be a minister of the Crown who was not prepared, upon questions of this nature, involving not any individual or particular interests, but the welfare of the country at large, to adopt that plan which reason, experience, and conviction pointed out to be the best. Without reference, therefore, to the part which he had formerly taken, he now most cordially joined his right hon. col-
 1047 1048 s s s 1049 in toto 1050 1051 1052 1053 1054 s s 1055 1056
 Mr. C. Grant  said, he should decline entering into the general question at the present moment, but would reserve to himself, the right of making such observations as he might think necessary, in the course of the discussion. He should now move the first resolution: viz.
 "That it is the opinion of this committee, that any sort of corn, grain meal, and flour, which may now, by law, be imported into the United Kingdom, should, at all times, be admissible for home use, upon payment of the duties following, viz.—If imported from any foreign country— "WHEAT.—Whenever the average price of wheat, made up and published, in manner required by law, shall be sixty shillings, and under sixty-one shillings the quarter, the duty shall be for every quarter 1 l s l s
 Mr. Bankes  said, he thought that the proper time to move an amendment. It was his wish to raise the average price from 60 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day, for the House to resolve itself into a Committee on the Corn Trade Acts. On the motion, that the Speaker do leave the chair,
 Lord Clive  rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:—For a period of nearly twenty years he had had the honour of giving his general support to the measures introduced by some of the members of his majesty's present government; but, of all the occasions upon which he had ever felt it his duty to dissent from them, he remembered none more important than that upon which the House was now called to go into a committee. He should take the liberty, at the very commencement of the address which he proposed to deliver to the House, to read to them, with their permission, a Resolution, which would, in the shortest and clearest manner, express to them the sentiments he entertained on the subject. This was a course of proceeding, he was fully aware, somewhat different from that usually pursued by hon. gentlemen, who were accustomed to propound their Reso-
 1034 "That it is necessary to give protection to the growers of British corn against the importation of corn the produce of countries not cultivated by British subjects, nor liable to the payment of the same taxes, on a principle similar to that established by the law of 1822, until grain shall have reached, in this country, the price of—(a price hereafter to be deter mined), in order to enable the British agriculturist to make his accustomed payments, and discharge his government and local taxes; to give to the consumer the prospect of a moderate price of grain during a number of years; and to Ireland and the Canadas a preference in respect of importation." 1035 s s s s s 1036 1037 1038 l 1039 1040 "But even in peace the habitual dependence on foreign supply is dangerous. We place the subsistence of our own population not only at the mercy of foreign powers, but also on their being able to spare as much corn as we may want to buy. Suppose, as it frequently happens, the harvest in the same year to be a short one, not only in this country, but in the foreign countries from which we are fed—what follows? The habitually exporting country, France for instance, stops the export of its corn, and feeds its people without any great pressure. The habitually importing country, England, which, even in a good season, has hitherto depended on the aid of foreign corn, deprived of that aid, in a year of scarcity, is driven to distress bordering upon famine. There is, therefore, no effectual security, either in peace or war, against the frequent return of scarcity approaching to starvation (such as of late years we have so frequently experienced), but in our maintaining ourselves habitually independent of foreign supply. Let the bread we eat be the produce of corn grown among ourselves, and, for one, I care not how cheap it is; the cheaper the better. It is cheap now, and I rejoice at it, because it is altogether owing- to a sufficiency of corn of our own growth. But, in order to insure a continuance of that cheapness and that sufficiency, we must insure to our own growers that protection against foreign import which has produced these blessings, and by which alone they can be permanently maintained." "During upwards of one hundred years, up to the year 1765, the import of foreign corn was restrained by very high duties. What was the stale of the country during those one hundred years? That in ordinary seasons our own growth supplied a stock of corn fully ample for our own consumption; that in abundant seasons we had some to spare, which we exported; that in bad seasons we felt no want, and were under no apprehension; that the price of corn seldom varied more than a few shillings per quarter; that we had no years of inordinate grain to the farmer, and of starvation to the consumer; that prices, instead of rising from year to year,
 1041
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he should not have addressed the House upon the present occasion had it not been for the personal observations which had been made with regard to himself by his hon. friend, the member for Kent. His hon. friend had paid him a compliment which he valued as he ought; but he was afraid that he could not accept it upon the terms on which his hon. friend had offered it. His hon. friend had expressed a wish that the same caution which he (Mr. Peel) had displayed in the alterations which he had introduced into the criminal jurisprudence of the country, had been displayed in the alterations which had been introduced into our commercial policy, and last of all into the Corn-laws. But, he would remind his hon. friend, that there was a very wide difference in the principles upon which alterations in jurisprudence, and alterations in commercial policy, were made. Our criminal jurisprudence, for instance, was not affected by external circumstances, and alterations in it could therefore be made as well in one year as in another. It was not so with regard to measures affecting commerce and corn; for a transition from war to peace, an apprehension of famine, and various other circumstances, which it was easy to imagine, might render it necessary to make very important alterations in our system without any delay. Be that, however, as it might, he would still say, that if any blame were due to the administration for precipitation in altering the commercial policy and the Corn-laws of the country, he was ready to take his
 1065 s s 1066 l 1067 1068 s s s 1069 s s
 Mr. Secretary Canning  said, he rose rather to call the attention of the committee to a particular point or two in the debate, than to offer them any observations upon the general question; which there would be many opportunities of discussing, in the future stages of the bill. The discussion that evening had begun upon the principle of the question; but by some means or other, they had now got into a discussion upon the alteration of the medium price from 60 s s s s s s s s s 1074 s s s s s s s
 Colonel Wood  objected to take the averages in the way the right hon. gentleman had proposed; and if the discussion was adjourned until to-morrow, he wished that one thing besides the amount of the medium price should be noticed. It had been said, that the calculation was made upon the Winchester bushel. Now, he believed, he was correct in asserting, that by law the Winchester bushel had ceased to exist within the two last years. All the people in the country had been put to great expense and trouble in obtaining the imperial bushel; and he thought that the introduction of the Winchester bushel, as a standard of calculation would bi-productive of great confusion. He therefore, thought, that the imperial measure should be adopted as the standard of calculation, and in conjunction with that stand-aid, the sum of 64 s
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  wished to say a word or two in explanation of the supposed difficulties of the two measures. It was undoubtedly true, that the bill for the regulation of weights and measures had produced—as every attempt to effect improvement in the laws or customs of a country would at first do—great expense and trouble, and some confusion, and at first sight it might appear to do so in the calculations upon the medium price, as applied to the standard measure of corn. But, if he was not mistaken, there was an express provision in the act passed for altering the measures, that though persons were compelled to buy and sell by the imperial measure, the calculation of the inspector and his return were to be made upon the standard of the Winchester bushel. There would not, therefore, be any practical difficulty, nor confusion arising from this mode of calculation.
 Mr. Davies Gilbert  said, he had recommended the Winchester measure; but as the imperial measure was now established by law he thought they ought to use it in preference to the other. He would not himself move that the imperial measure should be taken as the standard of calculation, but he would second any member who would make such a motion, as he thought it necessary to preserve that uniformity which the law had established, If the imperial measure was taken as the standard of calculation, he believed that 62 s
 Mr. Brougham  said, he would not go into the question at large, or into the di-
 1076 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 1077 s 1078 1079 s 1080 s s s s s s s s s 1081 1082
 Mr. Secretary Canning  rose merely to offer a few words of consolation to the hon. and learned gentleman, for his apprehension of a change of policy elsewhere upon this measure. He could venture to assure the hon. and learned gentleman, not of his own knowledge certainly, but from the information of others, which he thought was equally as good, that the appointment of the committee to which he alluded elsewhere, was not a sudden concession, but an old understanding admitted by the noble earl who had the charge of this question, on this express understanding, however, that the committee was not to be protracted, so as to interfere with the legislative provisions of the contemplated bill. In fact, there existed a perfect understanding, that the main progress of the measure was not thereby to be impeded.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  expressed his satisfaction at the circumstance of the Mouse having come to a bettor understanding on this important subject than they had heretofore done, and that they
 1072 s s s
 Mr. Western  said, that the measures respecting the currency introduced in 1822, tended to increase the circulation of the country, and as a necessary consequence, it raised the price of corn. The price continued to rise in the years 1823, 1824, and 1825; so much so, that in February in that year the chancellor of the Exchequer came down to that House, and made his prosperity speech, in which he described every branch of our trade and commerce as in the most flourishing condition. Yet, during that prosperous state of the country, corn was at 68 s 1057 s s s 1058 s s s s s s s s s d s s s s s s s d s s d s d 1059 s s
 Mr. Calcraft  thought, that great confusion had been produced by these different standards of measurement, and that the act ought to be repealed. Though the counties had been called on to provide themselves with the new measures, he did not; believe there was any enactment which compelled them to use these new measures in preference to the old ones. He was ready to try the experiment now proposed upon wheat, in order to satisfy the country that every tiling had been done to enable them to obtain food in the cheapest way. But he would not at present consent to make the same experiment with regard to barley; nor would he do any thing that would interfere with the present improved system of husbandry; as such an interference would affect not merely corn, but meat.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  expressed himself decidedly adverse to the resolutions. He believed that, even now, doubts existed amongst his majesty's ministers, with respect to the efficacy of this measure. For his own part, he was convinced that the plan now proposed was not founded in good policy, and that it would afford no protection whatever to the landed interest. The measure had been most precipitately introduced. Many points connected with it remained to be considered; and up to this moment, sufficient inquiry had not been set on foot. If he were correct in his view of the case he thought the House ought immediately to adopt means by which a more extensive consideration of the subject might be effected. In fact, a committee of that House ought to be immediately appointed to make inquiries, similar to those which were about to be instituted elsewhere. Having this strong impression on his mind, he called on the House to adopt the suggestion which he threw out, before they permitted the Speaker to leave the chair. In 1822, he had himself proposed to the House a permanent duty and open ports; but he was now convinced, that neither that proposition, nor the proposition now submitted to their
 1070 s s
 Mr. Ward , member for London, said that he looked in vain for those material improvements which the House had been led to expect from the projected alteration in a system, the existence of which he certainly much regretted. A noble lord,
 1063 1064
 Sir Edward Knatchbull  commenced with an expression of the great reluctance that he felt in opposing any measure coming from those with whom he generally concurred in opinion, and with whom he was in the habit of acting. It gave him real pain to express his dissent from the plan now brought forward, which the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs told the House was the plan of the noble lord at the head of the government; but which he could not have believed, if he had not received the assurance of the right hon. gentleman that it was so. He owned he was surprised at the measure coming from such a source. He said this with great respect for the noble earl, of whose services the country, by an afflicting dispensation of Providence, was now unfortunately deprived. To that noble earl he was desirous of paying the tribute of his approbation, for his long, and eminent, and laborious services, and of his admiration for his many eminent virtues. Before he pro-
 1042 1043 1044 1045
 Mr. Ferguson  thought it was impossible that this debate should terminate without taking a more general turn than that of a discussion upon the difference between 60 s s s s 1073
 Sir J. Newport  protested against the recommendation of the hon. baronet, He could not consent to go on a voyage of discovery indefinite as to its object, and which might be interminable in its continuance. He was favourable to the proposed resolutions, because he wished the law to be placed on such a basis, that the agricultural community might know, with, some degree of certainty, on what ground they were to build their calculations.
 Sir Thomas Gooch  said, that this was a subject of which he most deeply felt the importance. Although the representative of a great agricultural county, he would not consider this question with reference to the exclusive interests of his constituents, but on enlarged principles, such as became the representative—not of a body of agriculturists merely, but of the nation at large; and in that character he would take upon him to say, that if ever there was a question in which the happiness and the comfort, the interest and the prosperity of the whole empire were involved, this was the question. Such being the case the House was bound to enter into the consideration of it with the utmost vigilance and caution. If there were any hon. members, with whom he was in the habit of voting upon roost occasions, who were disposed to censure the proceedings
 1060 s s s s s 1061 s 1062 s s s s s
 Lord Althorp  observed, that the amendment was merely a difference of 2 s
 Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald  said, that as he had given notice of a motion connected with this subject, he would not trouble the House with any observations now. He must, however, say, that the hon. member for Reading had advanced some of the most extraordinary propositions that he had ever heard. He was much obliged to his hon. friend for having told the House; that, on the principles of the
 1089
 Mr. J. Maxwell  complained of the inundation of Irish into Scotland, where they could neither be relieved nor supported.
 Mr. Van Homrigh  described the condition of the part of Ireland which he represented as most deplorable, as there were more than five thousand paupers in Drogheda and its vicinity.
 Mr. C. Grant  said, it would not be necessary for him to occupy the attention of the committee at any length. He did not feel called upon to follow his hon. friend into the detail through which he had gone, as only a small part of his arguments had reference to the question immediately before them. In the general principles, for which his hon. friend had contended, he fully concurred; but the question was, how far those principles applied to the measure before the committee? In the first place, his hon. friend had said, that the effect of the present system, as well as of the proposed resolutions, would be that of creating a fluctuation of prices. The right hon. gentleman then proceeded to defend the new mode of striking the averages weekly instead of quarterly, on the ground that it would be less open to fraud and combination than the old mode. He could see no reason why the hon. member for Bridgenorth should fix upon 50 s. s. s. s.
 Colonel Maberly  said, he was anxious, from his connection with a manufacturing district, to make a few observations on this important question; more especially as he feared he should be one of those, who, in the principles which he should feel it his duty to put forth that night, might be compelled to differ from the great majority of the House. He would, in the first place, beg to remark, that his hon. friend opposite appeared to him to have fallen into a mistake, in stating that the hon. member for Bridgenorth had kidnapped his proposition from the right hon. Secretary opposite. It appeared to him that the kidnapping had been directly the other way; for it was well known to every hon. gentleman who sat in that House, that for two years his hon. friend had continued to urge propositions analogous to that now proposed by his majesty's ministers. His hon. friend's propositions had been founded on the system of a duty varying in an inverse ratio, and, although its details might not have been exactly similar to those of the present measure, it fully corresponded in principle. Therefore, if there was any fault to be imputed for the taking up of measures which were sanctioned by expediency, the blame should attach to the right hon. gentleman opposite, and not to his hon. friend. He had risen mainly for the purpose of stating the grounds of his
 1107 1108
 Lord Clive  said, he wished as much as any man, that corn should be at a low price, and the cheaper the better, provided it was of British growth.
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  said, that the body of individuals whom he represented were at all times entitled to much attention from the House, although their interests might not be exactly the same as those of the hon. gentlemen who had already addressed the House [cries of "Question"]. He saw how hopeless any effort on his part must be in the present temper of the House; but he should, nevertheless, endeavour to discharge with fidelity the duty he owed to his constituents. All they wanted was, to be put upon the same footing as the landed interest; and it had been repeatedly said, when it answered any purpose, that the
 1114 1115 s. s. d.> s. d. s. s. s. 1116 s. s. s. s. 1117 s.
 Mr. Baring  said, that this was a question in which every gentleman who spoke on the subject had some particular interest.—It was impossible it could be otherwise. At the same time, he was confident that the House would decide equitably and honourably. The worthy alderman had said that the landed interest paid nothing towards the taxes. Surely he had forgot that the manufacturers had had the same extraordinary protection as the agriculturists, and that, during almost the whole of the war, the ports were open. The noble
 1118
 Sir F. Burdett  said, that he found he differed so much from many hon. members, that perhaps the committee would excuse him if he trespassed longer on their attention than would otherwise be necessary. He could not, however, avoid premising that there was one unfortunate and prevalent error on this subject; namely, a general impression that there was a contention of interests in the state between agriculture and manufactures. A worthy alderman had in some degree lent his countenance to this error. The worthy alderman had accused the landed gentlemen of being a peculiarly grasping avaricious class of persons. However, justice ought to be done to the worthy alderman, for, in another part of his speech, he had said, that the landed gentlemen were amongst the most liberal in the country. In such opinion he cordially agreed with the worthy alderman. He repeated, what he had on a former occasion declared; namely, that there was no class of men in this country (and if not in this country, not in the world), more liberal, or more considerate, in all their dealings than the country gentlemen of England—the class to which he had the honour to belong. The hon. alderman seemed to think it an absurd position to say, that if every man in the country had a guinea in his pocket to-morrow, no man would be the better for it. Nevertheless, such was clearly the fact; because, as every man would remain in the same relative position, no man would be able to command more of the conveniences and comforts of life. When the House considered, that the landed interest was that out of which every other interest sprung—that without a productive agriculture there could be no large body of merchants and manufacturers—no great quantity of goods sold or manufactured—no traders exchanging produce between the two bodies; that, in fact, all commerce grew out of the prosperity of agriculture, they must be convinced, that the interests of both were one and the same, and that all depended on the welfare of the landed interest. If that was impoverished, all the
 1120 1121 1122
 Mr. Liddell  expressed the great interest
 1106
 Mr. W. Duncombe  concurred in the principle of the resolutions, proposed by the right hon. Secretary.
 Lord George Cavendish  gave great credit to the hon. member for Bridgenorth, for the manner in which he had introduced his amendment; for this was a subject of vital importance, and thanks were due to any man who afforded the House and the country, and ministers themselves, materials for sifting the matter to the bottom, and examining the question in all its bearings. He confessed, that from the wise and liberal spirit which ministers had displayed on several occasions, he was disposed to place much confidence in them. A great clamour, it was well known, had arisen on this subject, both among manufacturers and agriculturists. But, considering that ministers seemed disposed to deal impartially and justly with all parties, and that they had had much greater opportunities of investigating the real state of the question than others could have had, he trusted that the measure would pass upon the terms which they had suggested. He need not trouble the House with any further remarks except this—that the subject of the commerce in wool was one of the greatest importance, and one which ought to receive the speediest and most mature consideration. Without some additional provisions and regulations, made with reference to this matter, the late law, with respect to weights and measures, might lead to a great deal of confusion.
 Colonel Trench,  while he deplored the state to which Ireland was reduced, could not consent to emigration as a remedy for its evils. He was convinced that if the plan of emigration was put into effect, to the extent proposed by those who embraced it, its effect would be to carry away from Ireland all its best labourers, all those who possessed industry, skill, or a small capital; and that instead of leaving that country in a condition to become better, it would deprive it of all the elements of prosperity.
 Mr. G. Dawson  said, that whenever the poor-laws were mentioned in that House, he could not omit any opportunity of raising his voice against the introduction of them into Ireland. The right hon. baronet had justly represented the state of society in Ireland, and the consequence which would result from introducing the poor-laws into that country. Whatever sums were raised by county assessments, parish-rates were levied upon the occupying tenants, and to suppose, therefore, that absentees would be affected by it was a perfect delusion. Such great landholders as the duke of Devonshire and lord Fitzwilliam, would not pay a sixpence. It would all fall upon their tenants; and thus it would happen, that not the aged and infirm, but the idle and vicious, would be enabled to live on the earnings of the industrious.
 Mr. G. Philips  was surprised that those who affected to consider themselves as the representatives of the landed interest, should object to the system proposed by the right hon. gentleman, which actually seemed to him one that amounted to the system that they desired; namely, the system of prohibition. Under that proposition they were to receive a protection amounting to 33 l. s. d. 1113
 Mr. H. Grattan  expressed himself strongly in favour of a modified system of Poor-laws.
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, that the poverty of Ireland not only was and had been very great, but that its poverty had cost this country no inconsiderable sum. The hon. member then adverted to the subscriptions which had been raised in this country, in 1822, in order to relieve the distresses which then prevailed in Ireland. In the city of Dublin, at this present moment, not only poverty but disease reigned every where. The hon. member then read, from a report of the state of the poor in Dublin, an account of the number of destitute in different parishes, and declared, that in many; a great part of the population was supported by the contributions received from benevolent individuals, who were encouraged to give their bounty on the application of the residents of the parishes, going round from house to house. Want, disease, and misery, went hand in hand in that unfortunate city; and, unless something was done speedily by the government, a state of things must ensue, which it was painful to contemplate. Something ought to be done, and done shortly; for, although the hon. member for Derry might contend that the poor-laws were inapplicable to Ireland, yet, when the question was between life and death, extraordinary remedies must be their only resort.
 General Gascoyne,  as one of the representatives of Liverpool, felt himself called upon to protest against the system of passing vagrants to Ireland by that port. Upwards of one third of all the rates collected in that town were expended upon the passing of Irish to their own country. He must either beg the hon. member for Wicklow to persevere in the motion of which he had given notice, or call upon the House himself to adopt some measure, which might relieve his constituents from the annually increasing burthen thus imposed upon them. The people of Ireland had very good reason for giving encouragement to the emigration of Irish la-
 1090
 Mr. James Grattan  said, he had heard some hon. members, and among them the member for Derry, say, that the poor-laws must make the state of Ireland infinitely worse than it was. Now, the hon. member for Drogheda had just stated, that there were five thousand paupers in one district, and he would ask what state could be worse than that? What alteration could place them in a state more deplorable? He knew that, but for the exertions of a Mendicity Society, supported by voluntary contribution, in the city of
 1091
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  also stated his approbation of the measures of government.
 Mr. Monck  supported the prayer of the Petition. He thought this as much an English as an Irish question. The county of Berks, during the last year, paid no less than 1,000 l. 1087
 Mr. W. Whitmore  rose to submit the Resolution to the Committee, which he deemed necessary, in consequence of the Resolutions submitted on a former night, by the right hon. Secretary for Foreign Affairs, not being, in his opinion, such as to afford satisfaction, or to meet the exigences of the country. He implored the indulgence of the House whilst he called their attention to this most important question—important to all classes of the country—to some a question of life or death, and one on which he hoped the fullest and most deliberate discussion would take place, before any measure was hurried through the House and hastily adopted. In what he was about to offer, he would regard the subject with a view to the general interests of the whole country; satisfied that he would thereby act in a manner most conducive to that interest—the agricultural interest—with which he was himself connected, and which would be most affected by the measure now before the House. Having thus claimed the indulgence of the House whilst he addressed them on this most important, as well as most intricate and difficult subject, he would, without further preface, proceed shortly to lay before the House his views upon it. Before he proceeded, however, to state his opinions as to the effect of the principle of prohibition, he would admit that the measure introduced by the right hon. Secretary was an improvement, but yet a slight improvement, on the former system. There were
 1092 1093 s. 1094 s. s. s. s. d. 1095 s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. 1096 l. s., s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s. s, 1097 s. 1098 s. s. s. s. 1099 s. s. s., s. s. s. s. 1100 1101 s. s. l.
 Mr. George Robinson  said, he represented a large portion of the manufacturing population, and he therefore felt interested in the question. He could not fail to observe, that while much had been said as to the payments made by the landed interest, very little had been observed upon the capabilities or the outlays of the manufacturing classes. The landed interest might, perhaps, be said to constitute the strength of the country; but there were others whose interests ought not to be neglected. To these classes he feared the measure now proposed by government would be very unsatisfactory. When he looked to the effect of the proposed Resolutions on the Corn-laws, he must say, that the last quarter from which he expected any opposition was the landed interest; because, those who framed the resolutions seemed to have well considered the interests of the landed gentlemen; and, if there was any disappointment, he thought it would come from the manufacturing classes. To those classes he did not expect any
 1112 s. s.
 Sir Henry Parnell  said, that having some years ago taken a leading part in proposing a measure on this subject to the House, he was anxious to state his opinion upon it; and more particularly so, in consequence of his name being mentioned in the letter, quoted last night by a noble lord, of the President of the Board of Trade; He was one of those who had to avow that he had, in some respect, changed his opinion; but this was a subject which,
 1102 1103 1104 s. 1105 s. s. s.
 Sir H. Parnell  contended, that no relief, such as that suggested by the hon. member for Dublin, could prove effectual; until there was a greater security for property in Ireland, and until the rate of wages was increased by the employment of capital. As long as the Irish peasant could not find labour at home, or labour at so low a rate of wages as to be insufficient for his support, he would leave his country whenever an opportunity presented itself.
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, he had some Petitions to present, to which he must beg to call the attention of the House. In the month of August, very considerable distress prevailed among the labouring classes in the city of Cork, and a public meeting was held for the purpose of devising some measure for their relief. It was numerously and respectably attended; and, after a subscription had been entered into for the immediate relief of the distress, a long and animated discussion arose as to the best means of preventing a recurrence of it. The result of that discussion was the adoption of the Petition which he now presented, praying the House to consider the expediency of introducing into Ireland a modified system of Poor-laws. This decision of the meeting, however, was so far from giving general satisfaction, that it created very considerable alarm among the inhabitants of Cork, and meetings were held in all the parishes, at which petitions were adopted, praying the House not to sanction the introduction of the Poor-laws, should such a measure be proposed. These petitions he begged also to present to the House. From the best opinion he could form of the subject, the introduction of the Poor-laws into Ireland would be a most dangerous experiment; and, under all the circumstances of that country, unsuited to it.
 Sir John Newport  said, he was convinced, that the application of the poor-laws to Ireland would be attended with greater evils to that country, and produce greater want and misery than that which it at present suffered. In the district where he resided, there was not, for the space of eleven miles, a single individual to whom the duties attendant upon the administration of any part of a system of poor-laws could with safety be confided. Even in those parts where the country might be more thickly peopled, and the persons fit for the offices more numerous, he feared that they were not sufficiently so to prevent a system of jobbing which must be extremely pernicious in. a country so poor.
 1088
 Sir T. Gooch  said, he did not think the advance of 4 s. 1111
 Lord Howick  also gave great credit to the hon. member for Bridgenorth. But he could not agree with him, nor with the worthy alderman, that the landlords had been repaid by the high prices of grain for their peculiar burthens; for this, among
 1119
 Lord Milton  said, that, although he thought the system now proposed did not go far enough, it nevertheless seemed to him a great improvement upon the one from which government were about to depart. He was afraid that few members of the House would agree with him, and with his hon. friend, to the full extent of the principles upon which they were inclined to act; but, for himself he should say, that he agreed fully with every thing which his hon. friend, the member for Bridgnorth, had said about a remunerating price. He wished the committee to consider what was the state of the country, if the principles which had been laid down by his hon. friend were true. A further advance in prosperity, and an increase in the numbers of its population, would produce, as an almost necessary consequence, an advance in the price of food; and in proportion as the price of food rose, the greater would be the necessity of having recourse to sterile soils for the production of corn; and consequently the greater would be the expense of feeding the population. If that population was industrious, and by industry was adding to the general wealth of the country, it was most desirous that they should be fed at the cheapest rate. It was said, by the opponents of the present measure, that if the price of corn was reduced, the strength of the landed interest would be reduced in the same proportion. He begged to say that he respected the landed interest—.
 1109 s. l. 1110 l.
 Mr. Hobhouse  said, he had the other night expressed a wish to see a clause in the bill, making it necessary that the persons composing a court-martial should be unanimous previous to its passing any sentence. The noble Secretary at War had objected, that any factious subaltern might then, in order to acquire popularity, prevent any corporal punishment from being inflicted in the regiment. He did not know how it could be reconciled, that one out of five on a court-martial, should not prevent a sentence, seeing that twelve men were required to be unanimous in our courts, before the slightest punishment could be inflicted. The improvement he proposed was only a palliative; and, perhaps, it would not be wise to attempt a reform in what was radically bad. He had attentively listened to what had fallen from the gallant officers in the army on this subject; but, the only reason they gave for defending it, that he could discover, was that it ought to be continued because it had existed. But this, he thought, was bad reasoning, and not such as should induce the House to continue such a degradation on our brave defenders. He had heard an officer say, that in this regiment some of the men were brought out so frequently to be flogged, that they were known by the name of the flogging-blocks; and this circumstance demonstrated that, so far from flogging making them better soldiers or men, no good could be derived from it; and as no benefit resulted from the revolting custom, it ought to be abolished as being a national disgrace, and as placing our army in its discipline and honour second to that of France. He was glad to find the question brought before the House whenever an occasion presented itself; but he would rather that some regular motion had been made respecting it; and he hoped that no session would be suffered to pass away, without some effort being made to relieve the soldier from this abominable punishment.
 Sir John Sebright  said, he was ready to take his share of the unpopularity which might be attached to supporting the practice complained of. He had been in the army in the early part of his life, and from his knowledge of the military service, it was his opinion that the system ought to be upheld. He was fully impressed with the belief, that the excellent discipline that now prevailed in the army was in a great measure to be attributed to the
 1127
 Mr. Warburton  would ask, what the Turk said to produce submission? "Use the bastinado," was the reply. And what said the colonial cultivator? That the lash could not be dispensed with—as if the circumstance of a man being born with a dark instead of a white skin could prevent his cultivating the soil in the same manner as the European did. The hon. member for Hertfordshire had uttered, language in reference to the subject of flaggellation, which he never expected to have heard from him. He never imagined.
 1129
 Colonel Davies  said, that from his knowledge of military affairs, he should certainly oppose the adoption of the clause just submitted for the consideration of the House; being convinced that for the preservation of the discipline of the army, it was essential to have recourse to corporal punishment. If soldiers knew that it was abolished, much evil would follow. Much had been said about the government of foreign armies; and it was insisted that they were not subject to corporal punishment. If they had not flogging, soldiers who, in our army, were subject to that mode of punishment, were, in other countries subject to death for the same offence. In such a case, if a soldier had his choice, would he not prefer receiving the lash to being deprived of life? In conclusion, the gallant officer said, that he perfectly concurred in what had fallen from his hon. friend the member for Hertfordshire.
 Dr. Lushington  rose to deny that the doctrines promulgated by the right hon. gentleman were in conformity with the principles of the constitution, or had ever been recognized by the laws and usages by which the army was governed; and he was perfectly astonished to find a tight hon. gentleman, holding a high confidential and responsible office under the Crown, stand up in that House, not to uphold this practice by alleging in its justification the dictates of that imperious and absolute necessity, with a view to the maintenance of discipline in the army, which could alone palliate the continuance of this abominable punishment, but daring to argue in its defence, that our ancestors had handed to us an army, under the power and dominion of the Crown—upon which the Crown had the power to inflict punishment, according to its pleasure, its will, or its discretion; and to inflict that punishment not only by corporal punishment, but, if the doctrines of the right hon. gentleman were correct, by degradation, and even by death itself.
 Dr. Lushington  asked, what the right hon. gentleman meant by the common-law, or by established usage, if it was not what had been handed down to us by our ancestors, from time immemorial? How did he mean to support the argument that the Crown had the power to dispose of the army as it pleased, by the common-law of the land? Did the right hon. gentleman mean to rely upon the act of Charles 2nd? If he did, his answer was, that there was no common-law, and no established usage, of the nature contended for by the right hon. gentleman, but that a special enactment had been made upon the subject; very different from the purport alleged by the right hon. gentleman; which enactment, however, had long since been abrogated, and was no longer in force. He denied that any such common-law, as stated by the right hon. gentleman, existed in the army, and God forbid that it ever should! The law was, that the army should be governed by the same principles' of legislation, as those to which persons in civil capacities were subject. Now, if any attempt were made to innovate upon—in any way to alter or modify—the laws subsisting for the government of persons inc civil capacities, it was necessary to produce an authority by act of parliament. He would remind the right hon. gentleman of what was said by lord chief justice Mansfield, at the time of the riots, when it was proposed to make use of a military force in a way which was inconsistent with the law. The lord chief justice asked for the authority for such a proceeding. It was stated, that the commander-in-chief had given orders for the military to advance. His reply was, "Then, if they do, I will try the men for murder; I will not suffer any person, in whatever station or authority, to control the laws, framed for the government of the military as well as others, and I will not suffer them to be altered, except by a special legislative enactment." All that appertained to the government of the army rested upon the Mutiny act solely; and any punishment not sanctioned by that act, was a direct violation of the law, for which the author
 1135 minimum Minimum 1136
 Mr. Cripps  was quite convinced that the price of corn fixed by the resolutions could not be injurious to the manufacturing interests. He was, on the other hand, equally convinced, that the great landowners must give way a little, and reduce their rents. It was said, that the poor lands would all be thrown out of cultivation, if the resolutions were carried. How could it be otherwise. He had lately crossed the Cotswold hills, the soil of which was very poor; and he was sure that an extent of seventy or eighty miles would, in that direction, be thrown out of cultivation, from the inability of the farmers to pay the present rents, and compete with the altered state of the market. It was easy for gentlemen to say that those lands ought never to have been cultivated; but did hon. gentlemen recollect the reason why they were thrown into cultivation? namely, the demand created by the shutting of foreign ports against us. The hon. member illustrated the absurdity of the
 1146
 Mr. Charles Grant  said, that for a number of years, barley was averaged at one half of the price of wheat, and oats at one third. That was their calculated relative value, until the year 1822, when the committee then appointed, suggested an increase in the relative value, but not to any great extent. Since the resolutions now before the committee had been introduced, many remarks, made in that House and out of doors, suggested the necessity of inquiring into the most satisfactory mode of fixing the relative value of wheat, barley, and oats; and it was found, that to take the averages of a number of years, would be the best. The average prices of these grains had therefore been taken since the year 1821.
 Mr. Denison  hoped the House would indulge him, while he offered a few observations on the question about to be considered in the committee. It had rarely fallen to his lot to agree with ministers in their measures; but he fell great pleasure in stating his concurrence in the resolutions submitted by them to the House, respecting the Corn-laws, and, particularly, as, in so doing, he knew he acted in conformity with the wishes of his constituents. As far as respected wheat, 60 s s
 Mr. Secretary Peel  took the liberty of
 1148
 Mr. Whitmore  declared, it to be his opinion, that the law arising out of the alterations as to the duty on barley would create more suffering in the country than the law of 1822. He saw no grounds for changing the proportions between barley and wheat. He deprecated the passing of so severe a law. If it was passed it could not be long before the eyes of the people would be opened to all the evils of such a system.
 Mr. Hobhouse  expressed his trust, that the friends of ministers would stand true to them on this occasion, when, they saw them compelled to alter their original resolutions, by a few ingenious hints, not coming from the people, but from persons more powerful than the people. He denied that any vulgar attacks had been made in that House against the landed interest; but the people had a right to complain, and would not be put down by clamour. All they, wanted was fair play. The House ought to hear the voice of the people, and their representatives. This was not an occasion, on which the right hon. gentlemen opposite should, to use an old phrase, "turn their backs, on themselves." This was, however, the first time they had refused to hear the people. He was the last man in that House to throw firebrands among the people; but he hoped it would not be considered too much if he said, that when any question was propounded in which the people expressed a decided voice, the House was doing itself harm, by not listening to what their representatives had to say. Whether what they advanced was good or bad, he should say, "hear, at least, before you strike." The government had now changed its mind, without any reasons which did not exist before. All he could say to such vacillating conduct was, that it clearly showed that the government was not worth two-pence. It was not only known and seen in that House, but the country began to see it. He did not, perhaps, express what he thought upon the subject so well as he ought to do; but he was in constant communication with the people, and could vouch for their sentiments; and all those with whom he bad conversed were of opinion, that it was impossible that so wretched and disjointed a government could go on. He would venture to say, that had it not been for the gentlemen who
 1150
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he thought the hon. gentleman had been diverted, by his indignation against his majesty's government, from the real question before them; which was, whether the proposed rate at which barley was to be imported, did or did not, afford an unreasonable protection to the home-grower of barley? Had he been a stranger entering that House while the hon. gentleman was speaking, he should have imagined that his majesty's ministers, had been guilty of a great dereliction of duty, and had abandoned the principles on which they had professed at starting to be governed; and he should have been much surprised to have been told, that the whole trade arose from the their proposing to grant a little more protection to barley than they had at first intendeds Was it to be supposed, that the government could not submit a proposition to the House, without depriving themselves of every power to modify that proposition?
 1151 1152 s s s d s
 Mr. Sykes  said, that the power claimed for the Crown was not conferred either by the statute or common-law; and he read a portion of the preamble of the Mutiny act in support of his argument. With respect to the question now before the House, he entertained but one opinion; namely, that it was a barbarous remedy, equally unfavourable to the liberty as well as to the discipline of the army. It had the effect of making the mind as well as the
 1140
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, it was his intention to move two resolutions. The first was, that a certain proportion of the duties to be hereafter levied on the several species of grain to be imported into this country, shall be paid on entry at the Board of Customs, such proportion to be determined with reference to the ports from which the grain is exported, and also with reference to the shipments. The second resolution had reference, to oats, and oats alone. It was known, that vessels were capable of carrying a larger freight of oats than of any other grain. The vessel, indeed, might be loaded to the hatches with oats, very conveniently; while a similar freight of wheat would sink the ship. His second proposition, therefore, was, that as in vessels: of equal size, a greater quantity of oats, than of other grain might be conveyed, and as the cultivation of oats was a matter of the deepest interest, not only to Scotland and Ireland, but to several ports of England, it should be required of the Board of Customs to form some arrangement for limiting the importation of foreign oats, seeing that, such an arrangement must have been observed in the importation of oats from Canada, and seeing that such an arrangement was acted upon in, the introduction of five hundred thousand quarters, which the government was enabled to suffer to be imported last year.
 Mr. Curteis  concurred with the hon. member in his objections to the use of different measures, in selling and taking the averages. He regretted the effects
 1145
 Mr. Portman  supported the measure, and observed, that the landed interest, by conceding that 60 s. s s s
 Colonel Trench  said, that one point in the present discussion appeared to have been untouched by the hon. members who had addressed the House. They seemed totally to have lost sight of the fact, that much flogging existed independent of what took place in the army; and yet a thought of complaining against it to the legislature never entered the head of any man. What distinction, he would ask,
 1128
 Lord Nugent  agreed with his hon. friend in the view he had taken of the system of flogging, and was sure that, if a proposition for its adoption were now before the House for the first time, it would not be agreed to. The only difference at present between the advocates and the opponents of the system was, whether a course equally beneficial could be substituted for that now in operation. He had heard of a correspondence which had passed about eleven or twelve years ago, between the lieutenant-governor of Gibraltar and the deputy inspector of hospitals there, and the consequence was, that from that period flogging had been disused in that garrison.
 Sir H. Hardinge  rose amid cries of "question." He said, he would not dwell long on the subject now before the House. One hon. member had stated, that military officers were not to be considered authority upon this topic, any more than law officers were to be taken as authority on matters of law: he would, therefore, produce a document which emanated from: persons, who at all events, deserved, and, doubtless, had, the confidence of the House, with reference to it. On the subject of corporal punishment he would read an extract of a report of the governors of the General Penitentiary, made on the 7th of bruary, 1827. The persons by whom that report was signed, was, he felt assured, the last to be suspected of inhumanity, or of a desire to inflict unnecessary punishment. The extract was as follows:—"That solitary confinement appeared to have very little effect, either upon the men or the boys, and certainly did contribute to injure the health; it was, therefore, the opinion
 1141 1142 1143
 General Gascoyne  complained of the awkward situation in which this vacillating conduct of ministers placed members, who had written down to their constituents, that the question was settled upon a certain basis, and had now to contradict their former report. He should vote for the original proposition.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought the agricultural interest ought to be protected to that extent which would insure production, and not let the people depend for food upon foreign supplies. He was astonished to hear hon. members object to the ministers for having, in compliance with the wishes expressed in that House and out of doors, modified the original resolutions. The right hon. gentleman, the vice president of the Board of Trade had not come up to his standard; but, the measure submitted was, as far as it went, so fair and unobjectionable, that he should support it.
 Mr. Curwen  said, if called upon to state his sentiments upon oath, as to what he thought the proportions of duty and price
 1147
 Mr. Monck  said, he should certainly give his support to the original proposition of ministers. He denied that the change was owing to any suggestion from the people. It had been conceded to the threats held out to ministers in different parts of the country, by those who ought to be the natural protectors of the people, but who would make themselves their masters. He objected to this increase of duty, because it was upon an article already too highly taxed, and which formed the principal beverage of the poor.
 Mr. J. Smith  said, that he should make a few observations, in consequence of facts, which had come to his knowledge, and which added to the distrust he had always entertained of the efficacy of corporal punishment. Indeed, he much doubted, whether punishment inflicted on the body ever caused the reform of persons addicted to, crime; and his opinion had been confirmed, by the circumstances which he should state. In the month of September last, he happened to be detained three weeks in a garrison town in France; and, during that period, he had an opportunity of examining minutely and accurately, the way in which five thousand five hundred French soldiers were kept in order, and he would assert, that their discipline and conduct were in no respect inferior, and in some things, probably, superior, to our own. No French soldier ever was subjected to a blow: it was considered a dishonour, to both the party who gave, and him who suffered, such an indignity; and, without noticing what some persons thought of the necessity of recourse being had to such a mode of punishment, he, was of opinion, that there was no sentiment which it was more desirable to impress upon, a soldier, than the principle, that a blow was a disgrace. The punishments inflicted in the French army were: confinement, hard labour, and privation; and it was unquestionable, that punishments like those could not have the effect of making a man a worse soldier than before, while the infliction of corporal punishment was almost certain to do so. In support of that fact, the hon. member stated a conversation which he, had had with a respectable and intelligent individual, the governor of a prison, respecting, the result of those corporal punishment inflicted every five or six weeks after the sessions; and it appeared, that the greater, part of those who suffered those punishments, came again into his custody, with in
 1125
 Mr. Alderman Wood  declared his intention of dividing the House on the: original propositions, relative, to barley.
 1149
 Mr. J. Wood  said, that the resolutions on the table of the House had produced, not only disappointment, but the greatest terror, alarm, and dismay, among the manufacturing interests, who had been led to expect, that on the meeting of parliament some measure would be devised, with reference to corn, which would be advantageous to them; and now they saw their hopes blasted by the measure that had been brought forward. He condemned not only the average price proposed, as being too high, but the alteration in the mode of taking the averages, the effect of which would be to turn the Corn Exchange into a stock exchange, or gambling house. It was reported out of doors, that ministers intended to give way on the subject of oats and barley, and suffer themselves to be bullied by the landed interests. In so doing, they would prove themselves unworthy of the warm support they had received in that House.
 Mr. Hume  said, it was in vain to expect that military men would put an end to flagellation. Would the slave-trade have ever been abolished if the interests of those engaged in it had been listened to? It was hopeless to anticipate that any great reform in the laws would proceed from lawyers; so likewise was it hopeless to expect that officers would abolish corporal punishment. He was anxious to have the trial made by way of experiment, whether or not corporal punishment could not be entirely abolished.—With respect to England, it was an experiment; but in America, and in the greater part of Europe, it was no experiment, seeing that flogging the soldier had been done away some years. It was said that the discipline of the army required that odious punishment. The king of Wirtemberg had abolished corporal punishment in his army, and substituted in its stead solitary confinement. Flogging in the navy, he was sorry to observe, was quite as much encouraged as in the army. Having alluded to America, as an instance of a country that had abolished that digraceful mode of punishment, he would, with the permission of the House, refer to an act of Congress, passed in 1812, in which the laws that permitted flogging were repealed. The hon. member then read an extract from the Act to that effect. The noble Secretary at War had himself admitted, a few nights back, that corporal punishment in the British army would have been dispensed with if possible. The late duke of York, who carried the army to the extent of improvement which it now held, was no friend to corporal punishment; for in regiments where flogging was carried to a vast extent, he stopped promotion. The power of flogging ought to be taken from individuals by that House. There were regiments in which, from one year to another, a corporal punishment did not take place; and he would take leave to ask, if insubordination prevailed in consequence? But it was urged, that circumstances might arise in which, unless the power of flogging was permitted,
 1130
 Mr. Leycester  then brought up the clause to this effect:—"That it shall not be lawful, after the passing of this Act, to enforce Corporal Punishment on any Soldier, by the sentence of any Court-martial, within the United Kingdom."
 Mr. Leycester  in proposing a clause to-prevent corporal punishment in the army, said, that whether or not a discussion on the present shameful system produced agitation in the minds of the soldiers, he cared not. He should always raise his voice against flogging soldiers. The clause which he proposed was intended as an experiment; and if it was found on trial not to be beneficial, it would be easy hereafter to get rid of it. It had been observed by a right hon. gentleman on the other side of the House, on a former night, that "where there was a will there was a way." Now, he begged to use the same expression in reference to the abolishing of flogging; and he really conceived it high time that something should be done with a view of obtaining what appeared to him so highly desirable.
 Mr. Leycester  observed, that, after three nights' consultation with his pillow, he had hoped the noble Secretary at War would have come down with the announcement, that he had abandoned the barbarous clause in this bill, for the infliction of Corporal Punishment. That barbarous practice showed to what loathsome habits the human mind might bring itself—how even the natural feelings might be chained under the influence of custom. If this practice were now to be commenced, the man who should propose it would meet with universal reprobation: and why was that which was too bad to be begun, not too bad to be continued? This cruel code was justified, upon the principle of necessity; but where was the paramount, the over-ruling, necessity for the practice of flogging? It was proved not to be necessary, by the diminution of the practice in the British army, by its non-existence in the continental armies, and in our own volunteer corps, which were not made of the most pliable materials. But he would not trust professional men with the decision upon the moral expediency of professional rules. He would rather refer to the tribunal of common sense, by which tribunal, he was sure the practice would be pronounced a curse to him who suffered, a torment to him who inflicted, unworthy of oar gallant army, and a stain upon the character of Great Britain. At all events, a tribunal ought to give the benefit of
 1124
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, that with respect to what had been said concerning the price at which barley and oats were to be admitted, it was certainly understood, that that was a point reserved for discussion; and he would undertake to say, that although ministers had found themselves strong enough to carry the wheat proposi-
 1153
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that it would then be more regular to let the question before the House be disposed of, and then such a clause as hon. members seemed to wish might be brought under consideration.
 Mr. Wynn  inquired, what question was before the House.
 Mr. W. Ward  said, he should vote against this new proposition. When the original resolution was laid on the table he had voted for it, as he took it to be a peace-offering from ministers to the people; and he was averse from stirring up animosities between the two interests. But he would not, on any pretence, suffer an encroachment on the original proposal, as it would lead to consequences not foreseen. This increase upon barley would affect wheat and every other grain; as it would induce the farmer to cultivate a greater quantity of one grain than he otherwise would do.
 The Speaker  replied, that it was the third reading of the Mutiny bill.
 The Judge Advocate  disclaimed having made any assertion which could be thus construed. But he repeated, that the power of the Crown to impose corporal punishment for insubordination, or any neglect of duty or discipline, had been conferred, by a clause introduced in the
 1134
 The Judge Advocate (sir John Beckett) , in defending the principles of the bill, contended that, even according to the observations which had fallen from hon. mem-
 1133
 Sir H. Vivian  declared, that the British officers were most anxious to do away with the system of flogging, if any system, which could answer an equally good purpose, could be substituted in its stead. He assured the House, that the speeches of some hon. members had had the effect of causing that punishment which they sought to abolish; for his own part, he could state, that when he commanded a thousand men, he found, all of a sudden, that a great degree of murmuring had suddenly spread among them. He then sent for the oldest of his Serjeants, who told him, that the men were induced to believe that sir Francis Burdett had done away with corporal punishment; and he was actually obliged to make an example of one man, to restore order in his regiment. It was only the power that British officers wanted; they were not disposed to use that power, until every other means had failed. Let any hon. member show by what other
 1144
 Sir Robert Wilson  was surprised that it should have been said by any hon. member, that the happiness of the soldier was connected with the maintenance of the present system, as far as it regarded corporal punishment. He could not conceive it possible that any British soldier could have a mind so constituted—his feelings so much at variance with the opinions of nearly all mankind—as to approve of that degrading system of punishment. Every soldier on the continent hailed with delight the abolition of that wretched system, by which man was degraded to the level of the brute—as an act of justice rendered the army by the respective sovereigns. Neither could he coincide with what had been remarked respecting the punishment which boys underwent at schools, as compared with that of flogging soldiers. The two cases were not similar. Nevertheless, he suspected, that when the boy assumed the gown, he would object to such a punishment being inflicted. The gallant officer had observed, that under the present system, as the army was constituted, it was necessary to have recourse to corporal punishment; soldiers being too frequently reckless of character. But wherefore was this so? The fault was in the system. It prevented men of character from entering the army as private soldiers. That very morning he had seen a publication which was written by a common soldier—but, by the way, although the work was written by one in that humble station, it evinced no common mind. The writer spoke of the necessity of officers correcting and preventing the irregularities of the soldiers, not by modes of terror, but by assiduous attention to them—by pointing out the evils which would result from a vicious course. "If this plan were followed," observed the writer, "then the necessity of corporal punishment would be prevented." An instance never occurred within his experience, in which a soldier who had suffered that degrading punishment became a better man; but, on the contrary, the man thus treated was always worse for the punishment, and in many instances became a thorough reprobate. When he had the command of a Lusitanian corps—a description of men, that at one time did not possess any very extraordinary character for discipline—in this corps, however, during the time he had the honour of commanding it, not a single instance of
 1132
 Mr. Ferguson  was happy to see that ministers had given way to the sentiments expressed upon this question, both in that Mouse and out of doors; but he could not think; as one hon. member had said, that they had been "bullied" into it. He should be sorry to see the Treasury bench filled by any men, who would be bullied out of any measure, which they thought would be fox the interest of the country; and he did not think that bench was now filled, by men who would be likely; so to act [hear, hear]. He approved of the measure submitted by the vice president of the Board of Trade; but he did not think that that measure went far enough, with respect to oats.
 Sir J. Newport  hoped the House would put their  veto
 Sir A. Hope  said, that every soldier in the army of every country in the world, with the solitary exception of that of Great Britain, was subjected to arbitrary punishment. But the British soldier, ever since the passing of the Bill of Rights, could only be punished after undergoing a trial by his peers: his safety and his security were, therefore, guarded by the law. Now, it was impossible that any free-man could be in a better state. Before the passing of this bill, if the hon. members would refer to the articles of war, they would find that there were forty-three cases for which punishment of death were awarded, one of torture, and one of mutilation. The two latter, and nearly the whole of the former, had been done away, by substituting a system of flogging in their stead. There were two reasons why this system should not be abolished; first, that of mercy to the soldier; and second, to subdue the unruly passions of men, with a view to preserve the peace of the country, and the good order of society. It was the duty of those hon. members who wished this system to be done away with, to propose in its place one that would produce those necessary ends.
 Sir A. Hope  wished much, that a regular motion had been brought forward for the discussion of this question, as these desultory conversations unsettled men's minds, and prevented them from coming to a proper conclusion. It had been well remarked by the lion, baronet who spoke last, that in the system which was now acted upon, corporal punishment contributed to the happiness of the soldiers. If it were to be considered as a question of feeling, it certainly was one more particularly so to officers of the army, than to visionary philanthropists, who had no opportunity of judging of the necessity which might exist for it. He would say, that if, in the paternal government of the army, and what was properly called, the family trial of a court-martial, where he who passed the sentence did so upon oath, and where the commanding officer, who had the power of mercy to alter that sentence, found himself obliged to inflict this punishment, no one could imagine, that such a punishment would be wantonly inflicted.
 Lord Althorp  said, he could not agree in sentiment with the hon. member Formerly, foreign corn could not be; admitted until the price at home was 80 s s s s
 Lord Palmerston  said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had, in his opinion, wasted a vast deal of very respectable and constitutional indignation, which he might better have reserved for some occasion, on which it would be more necessary or useful; for greater misrepresentation he had never heard, than the hon. and learned gentleman had made of the speech and statements of his right hon. friend. The hon. and learned gentleman had, no doubt, misunderstood his right hon. friend; but he would submit to the House, whether the arguments of his right hon. friend bore such a construction, or merited such animadversions, as those applied to them by the hon. and learned gentleman. Any person coining into that House would, from the statements of the hon. and learn-
 1137 1138 1139
 Mr. Secretary Peel  rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:— 1156 1157 1158 animus furandi 1159 l l l l l 1160 pro formâ 1161
 Mr. Secretary Peel , in answer to the hon. gentleman, begged leave first to state, that although his hon. friend, who represented a populous and prosperous county in Ireland, was connected with him in his official duties, as well as allied to him in private life, yet that these did not make him responsible for what his hon. friend had said in that House; nor must it be supposed that he took all his hon. friend's statements for granted. He begged that his own opinions might be judged of by his own speeches. When the hon. gentleman asked him, whether he had any specific measure in contemplation for ameliorating the state of Ireland, and removing the evils under which that country laboured, he thought the hon. gentleman's own good sense must have induced him to anticipate the answer which he would receive to his question. He certainly had not in contemplation, at the present moment, any specific plan by which he hoped to be able to remove the evils in Ireland. Respecting the nature and extent of those evils he had recently taken an opportunity of stating his sentiments; and he did not think it necessary to repeat them. He trusted it would not be supposed that, in the opinion which he had given on the occasion alluded to, he was not actuated by the warmest feeling for the welfare and prosperity of that country. His opinion might be erroneous; but it was dictated by the most sincere anxiety for the happiness of the country to which it related. In the last and in the preceding session of parliament, the state and condition of Ireland had undergone the fullest investigation before a committee of that House, he had attended throughout the whole of those inquiries, and had listened with the greatest interest to all that had taken place. Some of the evils pointed out by those committees had been remedied; to others he should be most willing, if possible, to apply a cure. If he had any measure to propose, such as that which the hon. gentleman described, the hon. gentleman would have no right to call upon him to disclose its nature. He would of course, in that case give full notice of his intention, in order that the subject might be deliberately considered. If he had any such plan, no better mode could be devised of defeating it, than by making a pre-
 1165
 Lord Ebrington , in presenting a petition from certain parishes in the county of Waterford, in favour of Catholic emancipation, took that opportunity of stating, that, although the greater part of the individuals signing the petition were in the lower walks of life, they were nevertheless perfectly sensible of the importance of their claims. From his own personal knowledge, he was quite certain that the question was viewed in Ireland with the deepest anxiety. He could not forbear expressing a hope, that those who had taken upon themselves the responsibility of the rejection of that great measure, would come forward with some proposition for the purpose of allaying those irritated feelings which existed before the measure was thrown out, and which he feared now existed in a still stronger degree, and which could not fail of being exceedingly injurious. With every degree of deference to the opinions of those who differed from him on the question, he could not help believing, that, unless something were done, and speedily done, for Ireland, much evil would follow. It had been admitted, even by those who were averse to the claims of the Catholics, that things could not long continue in the state they were.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that there were circumstances of difference in the law of the two countries, which rendered it impracticable for him at present to include Ireland in the bills introduced by him. He understood, however, that bills, embracing the principle of his bills, were in preparation by his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland. He was here desirous of supplying an omission. It was to make a public acknowledgment of the great services he had received from Mr. Hobhouse the under-secretary, who had afforded him most important and valuable assistance. He had a similar acknowledgment to make for the valuable assistance afforded him by Mr. Gregson, a gentleman universally esteemed by the profession of which he was an ornament. Indeed, he had found a disposition to assist him, in clearing the law of its obscurities and perplexities, from the judges down to the humblest practitioner, which reflected great credit on all classes of the legal profession.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  assured the hon. member that there was no disposition on his part to withhold these bills from Ireland; but he thought it would be well to try the effect of them in England, and if they worked well, then to extend them to Ireland. As far as the jury bill had been tried, it had produced the most satisfactory effects. The bills were drawn up with particular reference to the law in this country; and, if he was required now to include Ireland, he must forego the intention of passing these bills this session. He understood that a bill for consolidating the law relating to Larceny in Ireland was in a forward state of preparation.
 Dr. Lushington  said, that he rose to bring before the House a subject intimately connected with the character and welfare of one of our principal West-India colonies. He would call the attention of parliament and the country to an act of lawless violence and indecent outrage, perpetrated in violation of every respectable feeling, and instigated by a clergyman of the Church of England, against an individual as helpless as he was unoffending. The act to which he alluded, bad as it was, had been accompanied by circumstances of brutal violence, which required no comment, and defied exaggeration. The subject he had undertaken to bring forward was, in his opinion, of no small importance to those who had been accustomed to the discussion of such subjects in this House; and it would excite no small surprise, when it was considered, that it had occurred after the recorded wish of parliament, that it would take every measure in their power to maintain religious freedom, and an observance of the laws in the West Indies. Throughout the island of Jamaica, it had been a long-established custom, that the slave population should be indulged with an annual relaxation from their toils at Christmas; upon which occasion the militia regiments of the island were called out upon service. This latter practice had, for many years, fallen into disuse; but recently it had been renewed; and, for the last two years, the regiments of militia had been stationed on guard, during the period of Christmas. On last Christmas day, in the parish of St. Ann's, Jamaica, the militia were called out to keep watch and guard over the slave population, and protect the
 1167 1168 1169 Mel in ore, verba lactis Fel in corde, fraus in factis 1170 1171
 Mr. Wilmot Horton  begged shortly to offer a few observations upon the motion; and, in doing so, he assured the House, that no despatches had been received in his department, in which mention was made of the outrages alluded to; and he would further state, that, had he received notice of the commission of any such outrage, he would have felt it his duty to have brought it under the consideration of the House. As matters at present stood, he thought it would be most advisable for the hon. and learned member to wait until such information had been received as would enable his majesty's government to interfere with, and direct the local authorities. With respect to the rev. Mr. Brydges, he should, if the statements were true, strongly condemn his conduct; but it was too much to suppose that the whole colony were actuated by such sentiments. It might or it might not be true that, sermons, such as those alluded to, had been preached by that gentleman; but they were bound to wait until they had ascertained the fact. In the mean time, it was not too much to say, it was highly improbable that such sermons had been preached from the pulpit, for such purposes. The hon. gentleman here read an extract
 1172
 The Attorney-General  said, that the hon. member had not merely repeated his former assertion, that the lord Chancellor received 20,000 l l l l 1175
 The Attorney-General  said, that if the object of the hon. member had been to elicit truth, he would have consented with readiness to the suggestion which he had made to him. If the returns had been ordered in the manner in which he proposed, it would have completed the returns made in 1811, on the emoluments of the lord Chancellor, up to the present time. Out of the 2 l s l l l
 Mr. Batley  took the same view of the matter as the Attorney-general, and could not but express his surprise at the mis-statements which were abroad respecting the lord Chancellor's income. He knew it was the opinion of commercial men, that some alteration should be made in the administration of bankrupt cases; but for himself he was quite satisfied that things ought to remain in their present state.
 Mr. Baring  concurred with the original motion, and trusted, that by the returns thus called for, the House would be able to know exactly the amount of fees received by the lord Chancellor, and to ascertain who were the grantees spoken of by the Attorney-general, as having been appointed under lord chancellor Thurlow, and who, from his statement, appeared to be deriving large emoluments from a system which he could not but designate as most disgraceful. When he recollected
 1177 fiat l l 1178
 Mr. George Bunkes  wished to know, whether the motion referred to the amount of fees received by the Chancellor alone, or to the amount of fees received both by him and the subordinate officers of the court?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed himself not at all unwilling to afford the hon. member every information which he could reasonably desire on this subject. But it was really too much to expect, that the hon. gentleman should be allowed to bring before the House, as a specimen of the whole matter, some twenty cases, such as he chose to select out of two or three hundred. He had no objection to such a motion generally; but this mode of selection would not bring the matter fairly before the House. He would therefore recommend to the hon.
 1180 l l l l l
 The Attorney-General  denied that any injustice had been done in the cases of those persons who had been alluded to by the hon. member. In fact, it was the opinion of the best-informed persons in Sussex, that smuggling offences ought not to be tried by juries of that county; and he had heard the same observation made with respect to Kent. The strength of local prejudice, it was assorted, strongly militated in those places against the course of justice. Those who wished to have the law ameliorated had made every inquiry on the subject; and they were universally met by this answer—"Do not try cases of this nature in the places where the transactions were alleged to have taken place, but let the inquiry go on elsewhere." It was made a matter of strong complaint, that cases which occurred in other counties were tried in Middlesex: but let those who so complained examine the matter, and point out where any real hardship lay? The most ordinary seaman knew perfectly well, that if he offended against the law he would be tried at Westminster. The phrase, that the man so erring would be "Exchequered," was perfectly known and understood. He, therefore, contended, that no harm was done, when the parties who erred were well acquainted with the fact, that their trial would take place in the court of Exchequer. He never knew any individual to come forward and say, when put upon his trial, that he had reason to complain, because he expected to have been tried elsewhere. The hon. mover expressed a great anxiety to convince the House, that, in introducing this motion, he had nothing but the interests of justice in view. It was extraordinary that he should, while thus declaring his own purity of intention, have been so unsparing of his calumnies on others. It had been asserted, that no improvement had been effected with respect to the administration of those laws. Now, it would not be difficult to prove, that a very material improvement, with respect to the administration of the revenue laws, had taken place. Formerly, every case relating to the revenue laws was tried in the court of Exchequer. This was undoubtedly attended with great expense. Many of these cases were now
 1182 l l
 Mr. Bernal  observed, that the measures which had been taken to support the revenue laws had greatly encouraged the race of informers. The Attorney-general must be well acquainted with the fact, that many instances of hardship and oppression had occurred under the system. A fair question arose; namely, what benefit had been derived from a multitude of prosecutions under these laws? Now, it appeared, that in 1825–6, the sum lost by the Crown, or rather by the country, in consequence of these prosecutions, was upwards of 490 l l l l 1183
 Mr. Maberly  said, he considered the answer of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, as to the imputations against the solicitor of the Customs, complete and triumphant. He trusted, that the right hon. gentleman, seeing how the new and very commendable arrangement respecting the allowance of the solicitor to the Customs had been received by the House, would be induced to place the Excise upon the same footing.
 Mr. Herries  said, it was very unjust to make charges against the persons alluded to, as if they were the instigators of the very offences to which they were employed to put an end. He thought that there was not the slightest ground for the accusation that had been made against them. Instead of bringing up cases for trial here, they were anxious to have them settled before the magistrates of the county where they occurred. Much had been said about the profits made by the solicitor of the Customs; but, in the course of two years, he had given up 11,000 l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the government were very anxious to carry into effect the recommendations of the revenue committee. Some of them had been attended to; but others could not be effected without a specific act of parliament.
 Mr. C. Thompson  contended, that it was impossible to put an end to smuggling, while the system of prohibitory duties held out such premiums to the smuggler.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the hon. gentleman appeared to be sore under the chastisement of which he complained. The hon. gentleman had, on his part, made a severe attack upon officers whose conduct had not deserved it. In repelling that attack, he was not aware that he had offended against any of the hon. gentleman's notions of what he was pleased to term his official dignity.
 Mr. Chichester  suggested to the hon. member for Galway, the propriety of postponing the motion of which he had given notice for Thursday, until after the decision of the committee on the merits of the Galway Election Petition.
 Mr. Chichester  begged to observe, that in recommending the hon. member to postpone his motion, he had acted entirely on his own discretion; and was not at all sure that his noble friend would approve of the course he had taken. He was perfectly satisfied that his noble friend would be fully able to meet any charge the hon. member might prefer against him.
 Mr. Hobhouse  recommended the hon. member to withdraw his notice, for the
 1186
 Mr. Lyttleton  concurred in the recommendation. The ballot for the Galway Election committee would take place on Tuesday, and the bringing forward of such a motion as that of which the hon. member had given notice for Thursday, would be a most unconstitutional and improper proceeding, which the House ought to discourage.
 Mr. A. Dawson  approved highly of the bills of the right hon. Secretary. They reflected great honour on him. His services might be compared with those which were rendered under the reign of Justitian, in the formation of a criminal code by the eminent lawyers, and statesmen of his time. The gentlemen who assisted the right hon. Secretary were also entitled to great praise; but he could not forbear thinking, that the right hon. gentleman might easily find three or four Irish gentlemen equally competent and equally ready to afford their gratuitous services in introducing these bills into Ireland, or in preparing similar bills for that country. He was at a loss to know what reason there was to prevent the extension of them
 1162
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  culogized the great talents and unimpeachable integrity of the present lord Chancellor. He likewise defended the Commissioners of Bankrupts from the attacks which had been recently made upon them, and contended, that, so far from their being either incompetent from youth, or stultified by age, they were some of the most able and distinguished members of the profession.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey,  in bringing forward his motion on this subject, referred to the statement which he had made on a former night; namely, that the fees which the lord Chancellor received on account of his jurisdiction in bankruptcy amounted to 20,000 l l l l l 1174
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  complained, that he had been attacked in an unbecoming manner by the chancellor of the Exchequer. He would not, however, be deterred from doing his duty, by any chastisement which the right hon. gentleman, in his official dignity, might think proper to inflict upon him.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  said, that if the hon. member would refer to the last of his motions, he would find in it an answer to the question which he had just asked. His belief was, that five-sixths of the fees included in his motion were received, not by the subordinate officers, but by the head of the Court, of Chancery. The returns, however, for which he moved would, if granted, settle that question beyond all future power of discussion. He again contended, that the fees of the lord Chancellor, in bankruptcies, were not 3,000 l l l s l s 1176 l s l l s d
 Mr. D. W. Harvey,  in bringing forward his motion upon this subject, disclaimed any wish to impute improper motives to any person. His sole object had been, since he possessed a seat in that House, to discover and point out abuses of every description; and among those which required the notice and animadversion of parliament, none appeared to him greater than those which were connected with Excise prosecutions, which were so great in their extent, and so oppressive in their nature, that we might well wonder at their existence in a free country. He should first take the prosecutions that had been commenced upon the Customs'-law, as they were fewer and less oppressive than the others; and yet so great, that they called loudly for parliamentary interference. He did not mean to impeach the honesty of lawyers; but he did mean to say, that even they would not be free from suspicion, when prosecutions were carried on apparently with no advantage to the public; certainly, with great injury to the persons against whom they were directed; and when, on each of these, the prosecuting law officer received a fee. From a paper which he held in his hand, if appeared that seven hundred and nineteen prosecutions had been commenced from the year 1820 to 1826 inclusive, to recover penalties to the amount of 580,136 l l l l l l s 1179
 Mr. Curteis  bore testimony to the great leniency with which Excise prosecutions had, in many cases within his knowledge, been conducted.
 Mr. Portman  presented a Petition from Blandford Forum, against any further concessions to the Roman Catholics. The hon. gentleman observed, that it could not be necessary for him to say that he differed from the petitioners. It was to him a matter of concern that he could not agree on this important subject with a large body of his constituents, for whom he entertained the greatest respect. Without pretending to go again into the general question, he would merely say, that he quite concurred with the great writer who had said, that "when gentleness and harshness gambled for a kingdom, gentleness was sure to be the winner." He was desirous to put a question to the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department on a subject of no common importance. It might appear presumptuous in him; but, as an English country gentleman, as a representative of the people, called upon to raise taxes for the purpose of supporting a system which the hon. member for Londonderry had characterised to be such, that in his opinion Ireland was in a state which could not possibly last, he felt it to be his duty to ask the right hon. gentleman, if he had any measure in contemplation to propose to that House, calculated to ameliorate the condition of Ireland; which condition had been described by every hon. member acquainted with that unhappy country, as the most miserable that it was possible to conceive? He addressed the right hon. gentleman, because he believed that he was the organ of that part of his majesty's government which corresponded more especially with the executive government of Ireland. He hoped it would not be supposed that, because he differed from the right hon. gentleman on one great question, he could entertain towards him any hostile feeling, which would induce him to make any inquiry of an embarrassing nature: but it was in the discharge of an imperative duty that he now asked him whether he had in con-
 1164
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, that if the right hon. gentleman had allowed him to go a little further, he would have found it un-
 1173
 Mr. F. Buxton  said, that, without entering into the general question before the House, he thought he could show, that it was not only possible, but probable, that the rev. Mr. Brydges had been guilty of the conduct imputed to him. That rev. gentleman had been made rector of St. Ann's, and chaplain to the bishop, after the period to which he was about to allude. The honourable member was proceeding to show that the rev. Mr. Brydges had been guilty of gross mis-statements, in an answer to a pamphlet published by Mr. Wilberforce, in which he stated, that he had baptised such find such numbers of negroes, in different districts, when—
 Mr. J. Smith  was of opinion, that the officers employed by government were sometimes very remiss in the performance of their duties, with a view, as it appeared to him, of benefitting by the irregularities which their own negligence permitted. He recollected being in the town of Hastings some time since, when, at mid-day, the town was absolutely blockaded, and a cargo of smuggled goods introduced.
 Mr. Shadwell  said, that the course taken by the right hon. gentleman was pursuant to the practice which had been heretofore adopted; and was the only proper course. A law might be perfect for England, but, at the same time, owing
 1163
 Mr. Handcock  presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of the town of Athlone; setting forth,
 "That the petitioners have learned with surprise, that a Petition has been got up, and presented to the House, in November last, by a person of the name of Flanagan, to which the petitioners' names were affixed, the purport of which Petition was to disturb Richard Handcock, esq. in his return as member to serve in parliament for the borough of Athlone; the petitioners beg leave to state to the House, they never signed said Petition, nor did they authorize any person so to do: they also beg leave to inform the House, that their names, so affixed to said Petition, are forgeries, as may appear by the annexed affidavits, and that petitioners are not freemen of the borough of Athlone, nor
 1166
 Mr. R. Martin  said, his motion had nothing to do with the Election petition. If he had made good his charges against the marquis of Clanricarde at the bar of
 1185
 Mr. R. Martin  declared himself willing, at all times, to bow with deference to the Chair; but, as the subject of his motion could not, by any possibility, be inquired into by the committee, he must decline complying with the hon. member's request.
 Mr. R. Martin  recommended the right hon. President of the Board of Control to look over the precedents, and he was sure he would find that there was no reason whatever for resisting the discussion on Thursday. He maintained that the discussion would not have the effect of prejudicing the minds of the committee. He pledged himself to prove, that the marquis of Clanricarde went into the county of Galway [order, order!].
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he was glad to see the reform of the criminal law in the hands of the right hon. Secretary, who had the disposition as well as the power to carry his intentions into effect. The reform in which he was engaged, was one approved of and recommended by himself and by gentlemen on his side of the House, but they had not the means, as the right hon. Secretary had, to act upon their recommendation. He wished to see English principles and English law introduced into Ireland, and did not think there should be one set of rules for the Irish and another for the English magistracy. He would recommend his right hon. friend (sir J. Newport), who first called the attention of government to this subject, to move for the appointment of a committee, to inquire into the state of criminal law in Ireland, to ascertain what statutes were unrepealed, which contained enactments not to be found in any of the three or four bills introduced by the right hon. Secretary; and to simplify the criminal law in Ireland, by making it as conformable to the provisions of these bills as was possible.
 Mr. Wynn  rose to order. He would put it to the House whether they ought to go at once into the inquiry proposed by the hon. member? The motion before the House was for papers relative to a certain outrage which had been committed in Jamaica; that outrage, it was said, had been fomented by the rev. Mr. Brydges, and, when his hon. friend made no objection to the motion, up rose the hon. member for Weymouth, and stated, that he could show that the rev. Mr. Brydges might have been guilty of the alleged outrage, because he could prove that that rev. gentleman had been guilty of falsehood in other instances. He was not there to say whether the answer to Mr. Wilberforce was founded in truth or falsehood, but he felt that that was not an inquiry into which they ought to enter at present.
 Mr. Wynn  strongly recommended the hon. member for Galway to withdraw his notice. The terms of the notice of motion were, "that it be referred to a committee, to inquire into the unconstitutional conduct of the marquis of Clanricarde, at the late election for Galway, he being then Undersecretary of State for Foreign Affairs." Now, how would it be possible to enter into such a discussion, without entering into the merits of the Election petition? Such a discussion could not but have the effect of biassing the minds of the members of the committee. He trusted, therefore, that the hon. member would postpone his motion, until after the decision of the committee. There was no precedent of a discussion involving the merits of an Election petition, pending the investigations of a committee.
 Mr. Wynn  expressed his surprise at the line of argument adopted by the hon. gentleman. Were actions of the kind to which he had referred to be supported, or decried, only in proportion as they brought money into the public coffers? Were they, because, from various circumstances, they might sometimes fail, to be therefore considered unwise and improper? Because money was not likely to accrue from these prosecutions, was that a reason why individuals who transgressed the law should not be punished, and made examples of? Supposing 490 l
 Mr. Burrell  said, that there were frequently great hardships in these prosecutions in the Exchequer. The supposed smuggler, for instance, committed the crime on the coast. The Attorney-general filed an information, and it was understood that it was to be tried in the county of Sussex. It turned out, however, that the trial was to be in London. The defendant all this while did not know what witnesses were to be produced against him; nor could he be prepared with them so well as he might be if the trial had taken place in the county where the offence had been committed. Whatever the man might be, this was a harsh proceeding; whether smuggler or not, he ought to have fair play. He did not mean to speak invidiously, but he was informed, that, on the preventive service, there were persons of no very good character, and that on the information of such persons, smugglers had
 1181
 Sir C. Burrell  advised, that the discretion lodged in the solicitor of Excise should be controlled; for he believed, that so long as it remained in his power to bring actions at his pleasure, oppressive proceedings would take place.
 The Speaker  said, it was of course competent to any member to fix the day on which he would bring forward any motion; but if the subject-matter of the hon. member's motion comprised anything which could be inquired into by the Election, committee, the motion could not be entertained by the House, still less could the House enter into any discussion of it. The hon. member knew best what the precise nature of his motion was; but it would be necessary for him to satisfy the House, that it did not involve any subject which could be inquired into by the Election committee.
 Sir J. Newport  said, that nothing could be worse than the administration of the Excise laws in Ireland. Year after year, some alteration of the existing system had been promised: but the hope was still deferred.
 Sir J. Newport  expressed his surprise that the bills introduced by the right hon. Secretary, which were found so beneficial for England, had not been extended to Ireland. He thought the whole United Kingdom ought to have the benefit of the improvements made in the law; but unfortunately, whenever any good measure was devised for England, it was not for years after extended to Ireland.
 Mr. Maberly  concurred in the view which his hon. friend had taken of the subject. He regretted that the chancellor of the Exchequer was not present, as he was convinced that a saving of at least 10,000 l
 Mr. Hume  rose to move for a return of the number of Hackney-coach and Cabriolet Licences granted to the present period. The hon. member complained of the monopoly which was practised under the present system of granting licences, which he contended were reserved for the favourites of the hackney-coach commissioners, to the complete exclusion of industrious and deserving men. An instance, he said, was known of one person, a wine-merchant, who was the owner of eighteen or twenty cabriolets, each of which he was in the habit of letting out for 24 s s 1187 l l
 Mr. Batley , from the hinder ministerial benches supported the noble lord's pro-
 1191
 Colonel Maberly  said, that the hon. member for Norwich had stated, that he represented a city containing four thousand voters, and that, nevertheless, the poll was always concluded in one day. Now he was in the unfortunate situation of representing a town in which there were not half that number of voters, and he never recollected an election in which the poll was concluded in less than eight or nine days; and, in one instance, it had been kept open for fourteen. Every gentleman who represented a popular borough would be obliged to the noble lord if he would make his motion include boroughs as well as counties.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was by no means his wish to oppose his noble friend's proposition; and he did not think that an insuperable objection existed to assimilating elections for boroughs to those for counties. He did not feel any great anxiety to effect the change for which the noble lord and many honourable members appeared so desirous; but he was not prepared to state any objection to the measure before the House. He was against taking the poll in different parts of a county at the same time. He thought it was of great advantage that the candidates at an election should be badgered a certain number of days by the electors. Now, if the poll were to be taken in different places at the same time, the candidate would be deprived of the opportunity of answering the questions of the freeholders in those parts where he could not be personally present, and such an arrangement would tend to separate the candidate from that intercourse which ought to subsist between him and his constituents. It was most desirable that his intercourse should be preserved; and, although it might, perhaps, in some instances, occasion perplexities to the candidate, yet that inconvenience was amply repaid by the honour of the seat, if he obtained it, or if he failed, by the glory of having honourably contested it. He should not like to see the candidate removed from the liability to answer the questions of his constituents. However, he had no objection to the appointment of a committee.
 Lord Lowther  said, he had had his share of contested elections. He thought, if the noble lord's proposition was calculated to diminish expense in one way it would have the effect of increasing it in another. When the poll was taken at different places, barristers and agents must be employed by the candidates at each; so that what might be saved in one way, would be lost in another. His right hon. friend had made some remarks relative to the land-tax, in which he could not concur with him; seeing that all his experience on the subject led him to conclude, that proofs relative to the redemption of the land-tax were easily produced.
 Sir C. A. Hastings  said, he had hoped that the hon. member would, upon reading the petition, have withdrawn the motion made upon such slight grounds as those stated in the petition, which contained imputations upon as honest, as respectable, and as independent a body of electors, as any in the kingdom. The petitioners did not go so far as to say that they would prove, or even endeavour to prove, any of their charges; but they merely said that they suspected this, that they believed that, and that they apprehended the other. If the House, upon allegations of suspicion and belief, were to call upon a respectable body to answer charges, they would be opening a door which would lead to much mischief and inconvenience; because any private individual, having a pique against a corporation, might bring them before that House, at a considerable expense, to answer charges which had no other foundation than his suspicion and belief. If the corporation of Leicester, in supporting a member entertaining principles similar to their own, had been guilty of a crime, they had been guilty of a crime of which every corporation in England had, at one time or another, been guilty. Another charge was, that the corporation had assisted the candidates with funds, to defray the expenses of the election. Now, he thought that he should have been one of the first persons made acquainted with that circumstance; but he must say, that it had never been stated to him, that any funds had been voted for that purpose. He admitted that, before the commence-
 1209
 Mr. Otway  Cave admitted that there was an agreement between the committees of the several candidates to pay the expenses of the out-voters. Of the learned gentleman who had acted as assessor at that election, and who was suspected of having acted in a partial manner, he must say, that so anxious was that gentleman to avoid all appearance of partiality, that, in one or two instances, his decisions were against the party whom he was supposed to favour. He denied that the corporation had gone to hedges and highways to select honorary freemen. Those gentlemen were as respectable as any other voters of the borough.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he could not suffer the House to come to a vote upon this motion, without expressing his earnest wish that the House would, by their vote, mark this course of proceeding with the signal reprobation that it deserved. If that House were to listen to motions of the kind, they would be preparing the way to
 1210 1211 1212
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he thought that his hon. friend, the member for Hull, had not been fairly dealt by. When he saw right hon. gentlemen having recourse to gross exaggerations—to palpable misrepresentations—attributing what had never been said, and what never could have been believed to have been said, it was quite evident that it was the last resource of those who felt that there was more in the case than they were able, in any other way, to answer. Every body who heard the right hon. gentleman—nay, the right hon. gentleman himself—well knew that; the hon. member for Hull had never quoted-
 1213 1214 au fait 1215
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  contended, that his right hon. friend was justified in his allusion to Peregrine Pickle and Roderick Random, by the fact, that in that portion of Smollett's History which had been referred to upon this occasion, the author had shown more of the novel writer and the political pamphleteer, than of the liberal and impartial narrator of events.
 Lord Rancliffe  said, that as the corporation of Nottingham had been alluded to in the course of the discussion, he was bound to admit that the practice complained of had prevailed there to some extent. He, however, disapproved of it, and would as willingly support a motion for inquiry into the conduct of that corporation, as into that of Leicester.
 Sir F. Burdett  was about to read a passage from the petition, in order to prove the incorrectness of the statement made on the other side of the House; namely, that the petition did not allege that the Corporation money had been misapplied, when
 Mr. C. N. Pallmer  was of opinion that the freemen in question had been made in contemplation of the election, and that their votes were improperly used in it. On that ground he should support the motion.
 Mr. C. N. Pallmer  congratulated the House upon the auspicious spirit which had manifested itself in this first session of a new parliament. Many beneficial measures had been originated, and the one now under consideration he looked upon as tending to promote most usefully the unrestricted exercise of the elective franchise. He entirely concurred with the right hon. gentleman, that nothing could be more unsatisfactory than the present system of the land-tax; and he hoped that something would be done for its amendment. It was highly desirable that the expense of elections should be diminished, and that the elector should be able to give his vote unbiassed, and free from the influence of any pecuniary consideration. The expenses of contested elections, as they were at present conducted, were calculated for no other propose than that of giving to wealth alone a preponderance, which was by no means desirable.
 Mr. Sykes , in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, begged to disclaim all feelings of hostility either towards the sitting members for Leicester, or towards the individual members of the Corporation of that Borough. His only object was to call the attention of the House to a subject of considerable importance, as it regarded the freedom of election. The charges which he intended that night to bring forward were already in the hands of the two members for the borough, who were not, therefore, taken by surprise on this occasion. These charges, too, were stated upon no idle rumour, but had been well ascertained, and were now ready to be substantiated by several respectable persons in the borough. The charges were, first, that the Corporation had made an undue exercise of the power they possessed—if, indeed, they possessed any such power—of creating honorary freemen, to such an extent as to overpower the voice of the other freemen of the borough. They were charged also with having misapplied the funds of the Corporation for election purposes, in having improperly taken those funds and devoted them to the payment of those fees which were due on the admission of honorary freemen, and which: they had discharged on the admission of those freemen who were considered to be in their interest. They were further charged—and if the House granted him a Committee he had no doubt he should be able to make out the charge—that the Corporation had borne a very large proportion of the expenses of the election. They were besides charged with having resorted to a compulsory mode of polling; making the electors poll in such a manner as to be most favourable to their own interests. There were several modes of poll-
 1199 1200 1201 l 1202 1203 1204 1205
 Mr. Legh-Keck  said, he was himself a freeman of Leicester, and he could safely aver, that a more respectable body of electors could not be found in the kingdom. The funds of that Corporation were strictly applied to the purposes for which they were originally intended. There was not a corporate body in England, who watched over the charitable and other funds placed under their care, with more unremitting attention. As to the formation of additional freemen, it could not have been done for the purpose of influencing the election. That would have been a needless precaution; because the resident freemen would, over and over again, have secured the return of the favourite candidate, without any adventitious aid.
 Lord Nugent  was glad that his noble friend had confined his attention, and limited the object which he sought to accomplish, to an improvement in the conduct of county elections. Such a course was the more desirable, as it afforded a greater chance of success to his noble friend, who, no doubt, would have enough to do to carry his proposed measure into effect. If any attempt was made to extend the system to city elections, with a view to limiting the expense, the proposal would be met  in limine
 Mr. Goulburn  contended, that the present case bore no analogy to that of Northampton, inasmuch as no misapplication of corporate funds was charged against the Corporation of Leicester. As to the remission of fees to the eight hundred freemen, it could not have been made with a view to influence the election, as the freedom was conferred on them in 1822, and the election took place four years after. The absence of any illegality in the mode of taking the poll was proved by the fact, that counsel, who had been consulted on the policy of petitioning against the return, under the Grenville act, declared that there were not sufficient grounds to support such a charge.
 Mr. Hudson Gurney  supported the motion. He said, that the matter loudly called for the intervention of the House. This infamous system of overpowering the  bonâ fide 1217
 Sir T. Lethbridge  thought the House and the country under considerable obligations, to the noble lord, for the manner in which he had brought forward his proposition. He, as the House well knew, had been pretty well badgered, but did not shrink from it. He did not think the badgering would be got rid of by the proposition of the noble lord. There would still be the nomination, on which occasion, the freeholders would have an opportunity of examining the candidates. The proposition of the noble lord went to open a wider door for more numerous
 1196
 Mr. Spring Rice  supported the motion.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he came to the consideration of this question with a mind perfectly unbiassed, not having heard one word of the circumstances, except what he had read in the petition, therefore not knowing how far they were denied; but he must say he was not at all inclined to adopt the course pointed out by the motion of the hon. member, because he thought, that, even taking the facts stated in the petition to be proved, nothing illegal had been done by the Corporation of Leicester. He did not wish to give any opinion as to whether or not the mode of polling was regular; because, if it were not the regular mode, that would be a sufficient ground for a petition to be referred to an election committee. If the city officer had persevered in his refusal to admit freemen to vote for Mr. Denman, upon the ground that he had not been proposed three days before, that would be a question upon which an election committee would decide; and he had no doubt that if that refusal had been persevered in, the committee would say, "Here is a candidate who comes forward in the usual way, and the legal voters who tended their votes for him have been rejected, and therefore, this election is void." He could not see any one illegal act charged against the Corporation; but, taking for granted that the acts were illegal, the question was one for an election committee, or it might be made the subject of an application to
 1206 1207 s 1208
 Mr. Wynn  said, he felt much indebted to the noble lord, for the attempt he was making to remedy an evil, the existence of which had been pretty generally experienced: and thought the principle of the measure, and the effort towards removing an existing difficulty, highly deserving the support of the House. It was with a view to further the proposed measure, and not for the purpose of interposing any obstacle in the way of its future adoption, that he should take the liberty to advert to some details, the particulars of which had been alluded to, in the course of the discussion. Allusion had been made to the present state of what was termed the Treating act; and it was said, that the provisions of that statute were deserving the attention of the House. Now, he did not mean to deny that the act might be well worthy of consideration; but he thought this was not the time for entering into a discussion on that subject; the rather, as it might be impossible to enter into it without interfering, more or less, with various of the Irish county elections, which were, or might hereafter become, subjects of inquiry before a committee. They should not say what was, or what was not, the sense of the Treating act, or enter into a consideration of the alterations in it, which might, perhaps, subsequently appear to be necessary, until the cases which came before the House, under the provisions of the existing law, had been first decided. He approved of the noble lord's intention, to confine the inquiries of the committee, in the first instance, to the best mode of taking county polls, because he had invariably remarked, that intrusting too many subjects to one committee, was the surest way to defeat all. Prior to the act of 1784, the law of election was very different from what it now was. That act had been passed in consequence of the Westminster election having been spun out to forty days; and, under its provi-
 1195
 Sir W. W. Wynn  was of opinion, that the difficulties at present attendant on a legal proof of the redemption of the land-tax were such as to prevent numbers of qualified voters from coming to the poll.
 Mr. Dickinson  supported the motion; which he thought would be productive of much good. He considered the Treating act a subject of great importance, to which it would be right to direct the attention of the committee.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he concurred in the observation made by the hon. member, and fully agreed with him that the evil which the noble lord's proposition was intended to meet, existed as forcibly in city and borough elections as in elections for counties. He thought, however, that the abuse, as far as it related to cities or to boroughs, was capable of being altered much more easily than by the method proposed. The poll, he thought, was kept open much longer than was necessary, and by closing it at a proper period, and by some few regulations with respect to out-voters, the evil complained of would be got rid of in city and borough elections. He had the honour to represent a populous city, the voters of which amounted to not less than four thousand; yet the poll was always over, to every intent and purpose of ascertaining the election, in one day. This was effected without difficulty, by means of arrangements which were made a considerable time ago, and upon which no man whatever attempted to infringe. The election always commenced at nine in the morning, and by seven or eight that same day it was decided. Knowing, by experience, that this could be done with the utmost simplicity, and that when once established, the advantage was acknowledged to be so great, that all parties concurred in it to the extent that no man wished to oppose it, he did not see why the same arrangement could not be made in other cities. If the principle could be applied to county elections, he trusted that the committee for, which the noble lord had moved, would be able to devise some means to check the evil complained of.
 The Speaker  informed him, that it was not competent to him to do so, he having already addressed the House.
 Sir J. Wrottesley  said, that there were two points of extreme importance. The first, the time during which the poll was to be taken; and the other, whether the poll should be adjourned from one district to another, or be proceeded with in various hundreds, at the same time. He thought if the measure should be found practicable at all (which, however, he doubted), it would be better that the poll should be taken first in one hundred, and that the sheriff should then proceed to others, leaving proper persons to take the votes which might come in after his departure. But it would also be material to determine where the poll was to be taken first, as the
 1194
 Lord Althorp  said, he felt bound to acknowledge the kind manner in which his proposition had been received by the House. It had been his object not to overload his plan with an attempt to comprehend within its provisions, any regulation relative to cities or boroughs. Indeed, the details of it were, for the most part, inapplicable to such places. His system would not apply to the out-voters in cities. His object was, to throw the counties open to a greater number of candidates, by diminishing the expense consequent upon congregating voters together in one place, during a protracted poll. The effect of the present mode of conducting elections was, to prevent many persons from standing, who would otherwise become candidates. Every day, the redemption of the land-tax was becoming a criterion less to be relied on at elections. A registration of voters would be desirable; not such as that adopted in Ireland, where the electors were allowed to register their own votes, but some mode similar to that by which the lists of persons qualified to serve as jurors were made out in this country. The increased expense likely to be occasioned by the employment of additional agents, would not be so great as some hon. members seemed to suppose; certainly not great enough to counterbalance the saving in other respects. It was well known that agents were at present employed in the various places where voters resided, for the purpose of canvassing them for the
 1198
 Lord Althorp  rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for the appointment of a select committee to consider the mode of taking the Poll at County Elections. The subject was one of great importance. The enormous expense frequently attendant on county elections was a grievance which required the intervention of the legislature. It appeared to him, that the best time for bringing forward a question of this kind, tending to produce a material alteration in the law of elections, must beat as early a period as possible after the meeting of a new parliament; because, among other reasons, opportunities would be thereby given, before the occurrence of a general election, to try, by experiment, the merits of the alteration. Not only was the expense frequently attendant on a county election a great grievance, but no
 1188 1189 l 1190
 Lord Howick , therefore, read the passage, which declared, that the Corporation had borrowed money to carry on the election, and that the lenders were to be indemnified out of the Corporation funds.
 Lord Milton  said, the question was, whether the act of the Corporation in creating such a number of additional voters, was or was not illegal. No one had said that, under ordinary circumstances, the Corporation of Leicester had not a right to make freemen. But the case became very different, when the proposition for creating additional voters was hawked all over the country. It appeared that 2,000 letters had been issued to various individuals, and that eight hundred persons were in consequence placed in the situation of electors. This being the case, the hon. member for Hull surely had a right to bring the business forward, for the purpose of investigation. But the right hon. gentleman had, with a great deal of solemnity, called on the House to make a stand, and to support the Corporation. He hoped that the House would do no such thing; especially as a complaint which had been recently made against another corporation, for improper practices in the course of an election, had not been thus dismissed, but had been referred to a committee for consideration. With the labours of that committee they had not yet been made acquainted; but he expected that they would be soon laid on their table. The present was, in his opinion, a gross abuse of legal rights, by the members of this Corporation. It was clear that vast numbers of persons having no connection with the town of Leicester had been created freemen; and it was the duty of that House to inquire, whether they were so created for the purpose of influencing the election in a particular way. He contended, that the House had a right to interfere, to prevent, in future,
 1216
 Lord Milton  said, that those gentlemen who wished to engraft upon the measure any further inquiries into borough elections, would not attain their object, but rather defeat the beneficial proposition before the House. He had always observed, that when questions were brought before, that House, unconnected with borough elections, gentlemen were particularly desirous to confine them to the single object proposed. With reference to what had fallen from the chancellor of the Exchequer, he entirely agreed with him about badgering candidates. It had a very desirable effect; but he was by no means certain that the benefit would be lost by the noble lord's proposition of taking votes at different places at the same time. In the county which he represented, it was the practice of the candidates to visit the great towns, and there show themselves before the electors. He should be sorry
 1193
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  moved the order of the day for the House resolving itself into a committee on the Duke and Duchess of Clarence's Annuity bill.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was extremely happy, in the prospect of having the vote of the hon. member; as he had given him to understand, that, according to the answer which he received to his question, he should be influenced in voting upon the grant to be brought forward that evening. The hon. member doubtless expected, that, in point of fact, his royal highness the duke of Cumberland had been in the receipt of the 6,000 l.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the charge had been made in the account, as his royal highness might have demanded it, and might have complied with the prescribed conditions; but his majesty had not thought fit that the young prince should be brought into this country, and consequently the money had not been paid.
 Mr. Maberly  said, he was anxious to offer a few words on this subject, as an erroneous opinion had gone abroad, as to the part which he had taken in a former discussion. He entirely approved of the vote; and he thought that, in a country which adoped the monarchical principle, an adequate provision should be made for the illustrious individual who stood next in presumptive succession to the throne. The late heir presumptive, had got involved
 1239
 Mr. Pendarvis,  member for Cornwall, said, that, as he was not present on the last occasion when this subject was before the House, he would take the present opportunity of opposing the vote, as a most indecent, a most wasteful, and a most profligate expenditure of the public money. The House should recollect, that when the sums now paid to the several members of the royal family were voted, the state of our paper currency had rendered them much less in real, than they were in nominal, amount; but now that the currency was restored to a proper standard, those sums were much beyond, in actual value, what would have been voted if the state of the currency had been the same as it was at this day. He thought, therefore, that, if any alteration were made in the grants, it should be that of decrease rather than increase. He wished that royalty should be surrounded with proper splendor; but, at a period when our manufacturers were in a state of distress, and
 1243
 Sir W. Plunkett  said, he should only think it necessary to trouble the House with a single sentence, in consequence of an observation which had fallen from an hon. member opposite, respecting an opinion of his, given in the year 1818. It was his intention to support this grant; and in doing so, he did not think he was forfeiting his claims to consistency. Indeed, he should adopt the opinion which that hon. member had been pleased to attribute to him, and should claim the benefit of it in requiring that hon. member, as he avowed his concurrence with it, to manifest that concurrence in the plainest manner, by supporting the present grant. He thought now, as he had thought in 1818, that the question ought not to be
 1246
 Mr. Alderman Wood  contended, that the expense of this grant would, like the general expenses of the country, fall most heavily upon the lower classes. He was proceeding to detail his reasons for that opinion, when he was assailed by loud cries of "question." He made a short pause, and then turning round to one of the vociferators, said, "Sir, you shall have the question whenever you like, but it must not be till I please. You shall not put me down. I will not be placed in the situation in which an honourable colleague of mine has been placed by the intolerant spirit of the landed faction. I have never interrupted the House, nor given intentional pain to any man in it; and I would ask, whether it is either fair, or just, or parliamentary, that I should be thus assailed in the performance of what I consider my duty?" The hon. alderman concluded by observing, that he should
 1247
 Sir R. Heron  observed, that the hon. member for Devonshire had exhibited considerable warmth in denouncing what he was pleased to call false economy; but that hon. baronet had never come forward with any definition of what he considered true economy. He recollected the manner in which the hon. baronet generally voted on all questions of retrenchment, and he would, therefore, be obliged if he would point out to the House the true economy for which he would allow it a vote. His hon. friend, the member for Wareham, had pointed to the grant made to the princess Charlotte and prince Leopold on their marriage, as a precedent which the House ought to follow on the present occasion. Now, it appeared to him at the time when that grant was made, that both the House and the country were in a very extravagant humour. The House had as yet exhibited no symptom of repentance; but the people, he believed, were in a different temper. Let the opinion of the people on that point be what it might, they considered the grant now proposed to be as unnecessary and as extravagant a grant as was ever submitted to parliament; and under that consideration he should certainly vote against it.
 Mr. Van Homrigh  said, that, although the annual salary of the Stipendiary magistrate was 700 l., l.
 Mr. V. Stuart,  in reply, said, that in making this motion, he intended nothing offensive towards the lord-lieutenant or the right hon. Secretary for Ireland; from both of whom he had received great kindness and courtesy, whenever he had had occasion to make any communications to them; but he thought that he should not have done his duty if he had not made this motion. He had heard nothing from the other side to induce him to alter his opinion that the appointment was unconstitutional and uncalled for. He was ready to admit, that a trifling disturbance had taken place at Kilmacthomas; and that, during the affray, a stone was thrown into his carriage; but he did not think it a disturbance of such a nature as to re-
 1258 l
 Mr. Alderman C. Smith  denied that, those who drank gin and beer in the manner described by his brother alderman, would feel the effects of this grant in any way whatsoever. He gave it his warmest support.
 Mr. Tennyson  regretted extremely that, upon every occasion when an increase of income became necessary for a branch of the royal family, these discussions should be provoked. It was inexpedient that the individuals of that family should thus be exposed in detail to the reflections cast upon them in the public journals, and in parliament, as persons who were inconsiderately and continually drawing upon the impoverished resources of the country. But, it was unjust as well as inexpedient. The royal family were brought to this country under circumstances of peculiar interest to the liberties and happiness of the people, and were thrown upon its liberality for a fit provision, he thought, therefore, it was its duty, as well as its interest, to establish some fixed scale by which that provision might be regulated, so that each member of the family should be enabled duly to occupy the station he was called upon to fill, and not be left to the alternative of encountering all the calumnies which these applications generated,—or of remaining exposed to the continual taxes upon his benevolence which his station brought upon him, with insufficient means. 1240 l. l. l. l. 1241 l. l. 1242
 Mr. Goulburn  said, that after the manner in which the hon. member had arraigned the conduct of the Irish government in the particular instance alluded to, and after the efforts, not only of the hon. gentleman's argument, but of his humour— which latter he could assure the hon. member he took in perfect good part—after all this he felt himself called upon to advert more particularly to the circumstances of the case, with a view to explain to the House, and vindicate from the aspersions which had been cast upon it, the course which the Irish government had, in this
 1251 1252 1253 1254 1255 l. l. l.
 Mr. Goulburn  said, he had cast no such imputation. What he had said was, that the people might naturally conclude that the magistrates would not be impartial,
 1256
 Mr. H. Grattan  considered the appointment of stipendiary magistrates and police highly unconstitutional. They might be necessary; but it was only because his majesty's ministers did not keep Ireland in the state in which she ought to be kept. If Ireland were tranquil, there would be no necessity for such appointments; but Ireland could never be tranquil under the present system. The expense of the police in that country was very considerable; and the individuals who composed it, might be almost considered as amenable to no law, for they were not punishable under the provisions of the Mutiny bill; indeed, he understood that their only punishment was dismissal. It was necessary for gentlemen on this side of the water to look to the system in Ireland, lest the evil should approach their own shore. He held in his hand, the private and public instructions given to the constabulary police in Ireland; and it would be only necessary for him to read one or two of them, to put the House in possession of their extraordinary nature. [The hon. member here read one of the public and general, and one of the private orders given to the police. The public order stated, that the police were not to converse on the roads, lest they might be overheard, and the nature of their duty discovered; that they must not divulge the countersign; that two patrols were to walk in advance of the party, lest any mistake should occur; and that, on the approach of any person, they were to demand the countersign. The private order stated, that the police should observe the habits of the people in the neighbourhood and the business and characters of persons newly arriving in the neighbourhood; that great circumspection and secresy should be observed; that they should take notes of every thing that was done in the neighbourhood; and, if they proved themselves to be trustworthy, they should be declared fit for the service.] Such was the system of espionage earned on in Ireland—a system to which the people of England would never submit. It was part of the old system of government in Ireland—
 1257
 Mr. Villiers Stuart  called the
 1248 1249 1250 l.
 Mr. Calcraft  thought the grant was to be defended, both on the precedents of the duke of York and the princess Charlotte. In the latter instance, the House not only granted 60,000 l. l.
 Mr. J. Martin  said, it was most singular that ministers should intrude such an objectionable measure upon the public, if the sequel proved that even the royal duke did not conceive the grant necessary, and had consequently neglected to receive it. l. l.
 Mr. J. Martin  said, he would avail himself of the present opportunity to put a question to the right non. gentleman, and which, he trusted, he would have no objection to answer. The feelings of the country were more acutely alive to the grants to the royal family, than ministers seemed to be aware of. It might be in the recollection of the House, that, in the year 1825, a bill had been introduced, granting an additional allowance of 6000 l. l. 1237 l.
 Mr. Monck  thought, that if his hon. friend had proved any thing, he had proved too much; since, if the grant of 9,000 l. l. 1245
 Mr. Hume  said, that if the government accounts and statements were made up properly, such misconceptions could not take place; members would not be misled into such errors; and all such questions
 1238 l. l. l. l. l.
 Mr. Leycester  acknowledged that the distress in the manufacturing districts was great; and if he thought the present grant would take one farthing more from the pockets of the manufacturing population, he would oppose it. But he feared no such result. From whence were the 9,000 l.
 Mr. Carew  thought it an awkward circumstance, that the appointment should have taken place so near the time of election; as if it had been intended for the furtherance of an election purpose.
 Mr. Carew  complained of the imputation cast upon the impartiality of the Waterford magistrates by the right hon. Secretary.
 Mr. Beaumont  did not condemn the grant, so much as the breathless haste with which it had been submitted to parliament, and the want of sympathy with the distresses of the people, which it glaringly betrayed. There was no wish on his side of the House to drive the people to despair and madness; but the best mode of doing so would be for parliament to convince them that it had no sympathy whatever with their distress.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that an hon. member had expressed his belief, that his royal highness would secure to himself the respect and affection of the country from his mode of expending such grants. This sentiment, however, involved a most enormous mistake. He not only thought it would have been more consistent with good taste not to have brought forward this motion, but he very much lamented that any such sentiment should ever have been uttered. He lamented that any minister should endeavour to infuse into any branch of the royal family an opinion that he would not derive a much greater share of the respect and affection of the people of England, by refusing such a grant, than from any mode of expending it whatever. The virtue that secured respect to princes was a consideration for the distresses of the people. It was true that the 9,000 l. 1244
 Sir George Hill  was surprised to hear the hon. member for Waterford, designate as unconstitutional, an act done by the lord-lieutenant, under the authority of an act of parliament. He wished to express his decided opinion, that, considering the then disturbed state of the county of Waterford, the lord-lieutenant would, if he had not acted as he had done, have been guilty of a monstrous dereliction of duty.
 Sir T. Acland  said, that he too came under the animadversions from which the last speaker had vindicated himself. In 1818, he had voted as that right hon. gentleman had done. He thought, however, that there was a wide distinction between the present and the former circumstances of the royal duke. He was now next heir to the throne; and no economy could be more false or illiberal than that which would go to circumscribe his income.
 Sir Francis Burdett  gave notice, that, shortly after the Easter recess, it was his intention to bring forward a motion regarding the present state of the Water Companies of the Metropolis.
 Mr. Baring,  on rising to present a Petition from the Ship-owners of the City of London, observed, that the subject of this Petition—the changes that had lately been made in the Navigation Laws of this country—was one of vital importance to the nation, as there was great reason to fear that if, by any accident or false legislation, this country suffered other nations in this respect to get the start of her, it would be exceedingly difficult, if not altogether impossible, to regain her position. He took that opportunity, therefore, of asking the vice-president of the Board of Trade, whether it was the intention of government to grant a committee of inquiry upon this subject? He felt himself perfectly unprejudiced; as he acknowledged that he had been one of those who had called for the alterations, respecting which he had since seen some reason to change his mind. He entirely concurred in a sentiment delivered by his right hon. friend, in the very eloquent speech with which he had introduced the bills on this subject, that in carrying into effect experiments founded on untried theories, the best and wisest men might be led into mistakes. The hon. gentleman then proceeded to express his conviction, that some inquiry was necessary into the state of distress which prevailed among those engaged in the shipping trade, for the purpose of ascertaining whether that distress really proceeded from the measures which had been adopted, or whether it was not the consequence of that general stagnation of trade which had, more or less, affected all the other branches of national industry. If it could be really proved before a committee, that the present state of the shipping trade resulted from the measures which had been adopted by his majesty's government, and that if those measures were persisted in, the distress must go on increasing, then it was obvious, that, unless they turned back from the course which they had been pursuing, it would be impossible for this country to compete with foreigners, cither in the shipping or carrying trade. After several other observations, which were delivered in too low a tone to reach the gallery, the hon. gentleman concluded by expressing his conviction, that it had been proved beyond contradiction, that ships built in Great Britain cost just as much again as those built in Germany; in short, that every thing necessary to send a ship to sea, cost double
 1268
 Mr. C. Grant  begged not to be supposed to assent to the propositions of the hon. member, if he abstained from following him through the various subjects he had touched upon. All he rose to say was, that his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade, was exceedingly anxious to take the earliest opportunity which his health would allow of, to bring the subject under the consideration of the House. He begged, at the same time, not to be understood as pledging his right hon. friend to adopt any particular course. He was not authorised to make any declaration on that subject by his right hon. friend. He merely begged to be understood as declaring, that he would take the earliest opportunity of putting the House in possession of the views of his majesty's government upon the whole question connected with the Shipping interest of the country.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  thought he could satisfy the hon. member who spoke last, that after the manifestation of opinion, in which he had not shrunk from declaring his acquiescence, the course pursued by the Irish government was the only one that could have been taken. They selected certain aggravated cases pointed out in the reports, and the law officers of the Crown were directed to prosecute: the cases were sent to a jury in the ordinary manner, but the jury had declined to convict. The Irish government had done its duty; for, although it was apprehended that such might be the result, it was thought right that no means of obtaining punishment should be omitted. As to education generally, he had stated his opinions fully upon the subject, when he was in Ireland. At that period, a proposal had been made to him on the subject, by several persons, to whom he had at once declared, that it was extremely desirable, in his opinion, to diffuse the benefits of education as generally throughout Ireland as possible, without exciting any alarm or jealousy, upon the grounds of religion. In consequence of this proposal, and of the views which he had expressed upon the subject,
 1263
 Sir W. Plunkett  said, he did not wish to prolong a discussion which would be more properly considered by the House, when the estimates, or the report of the committee of inquiry, were brought forward. He was, however, induced to offer a few remarks, in consequence of what had fallen from his learned friend the member for Calne. He perfectly concurred in what, indeed, no man could dissent from; namely, that it was most desirable to establish throughout Ireland a system of common education. The principle was equally true, that, having a system of common education, it should rest upon some religious basis; for any system of education, which was not founded upon such a basis, was always dangerous. The desideratum, therefore, was a common religious instruction, which each party might receive, without danger or offence to the peculiarities of their faith. Such a plan of proceeding had been seriously sought after by various persons. They had endeavoured to put aside all sources of religious jealousies and disputes: so that every class might frequent the schools for one common and general benefit. This had been recommended by gentlemen of conscience and of the most liberal feelings. But his hon. and learned friend had stated, that the hopes held out of carrying this system into effect had proved delusive. He could not, however, by any means agree with him, or go the length of saying that the project had failed. It was necessary to state, that a system had been formed of general religious instruction, to be delivered to the pupils in common and without distinction. The plan would necessarily exclude all but those fundamental and general principles nearly common to all sects. It was meant to contain extracts from the Bible, including so much of the sacred volume as to constitute an epitome, in which nothing essential should be omitted. He believed
 1265
 Mr. Secretary Peel  merely wished to say, that he thought the subject of so much importance, that he wished no misunderstanding to go forth, to the effect of creating an impression that any part of the system was to make proselytes. Upon this subject he had only to refer to a Report of the commission appointed for this special purpose—in consequence of an address of that House. In this commission were to be found the names of Mr. Frankland Lewis, Mr. Grant, Mr. Leslie Foster, Mr. Blake, and other gentlemen of intelligence and honour, who embraced either side of the question. The commissioners had entered into the system of the Kildare-street Society referred to in the present debate. The question had been proposed to the commission, Whether the system or practice of the Kildare-street Society was or was not, to make converts of the Roman Catholics to Protestantism? The commissioners had reported that "No fact has come to our knowledge to lead us to doubt their own repeated disclaimers of having any such intention." Mr. Donelan had declared, that if any such design had been entertained by the Society, he would not have acted as the inspector of the schools, and that he had performed that duty, because he was convinced that the association had no intention of pursuing any system of proselytism. They had even protected Roman Catholic children as far as was consistent with their laws. The schoolmaster and mistress of the Society's Model School at Dublin were Roman Catholics. The charges
 1266
 Mr. Alderman Thompson  was willing to admit, that great distress prevailed among the ship-owners; but he very much doubted whether it was in the power of parliament to afford them any relief. It was his opinion, that the alteration in the Navigation Laws, which was said to be the cause of all their distress, had not injured the ship-owners to any thing like the extent which was supposed. That distress, he feared, was but a part of the system of overtrading, which had, more or less, affected all the interests of the country. It was a matter well worth the attention of the House, that the shipping had not fallen off in number of vessels or extent of tonnage, since the alterations which were now decried as the sole cause of all their misfortunes. The shipping interest, like every other, had been affected by the late spirit of overtrading; and, although he entertained serious doubts whether any remedy could be applied by that House, he had no objection to an inquiry before a committee.
 Mr. Peel  deprecated discussion at the present moment, and hoped that members would abstain from making any precipitate pledges, as to the course which they would take.
 Mr. Baring  said, of this he was convinced, that the shipping interest could not remain in its present state. Either something less should have been done, or something more should now be done. He did not know what would become of the country, if we did not maintain our commercial superiority.
 Mr. Warburton  said, he had observed no indications of that division of opinion in the cabinet, which the hon. member for Callington stated to exist, with respect to the liberal system of commercial policy lately adopted by government. On the contrary, he had observed—and it had given him much satisfaction—that all the members of government had concurred in stating their determination to continue to act upon the liberal principles which they had avowed. He thought it right to say
 1270
 Mr. Baring  said, that the question of time was of great importance, and for that reason he was desirous of learning from the vice-president of the Board of Trade, whether ministers intended to oppose the appointment of a committee. If ministers were resolved not to grant a committee, it did not much matter when the motion was made; but if the contrary was the case, it ought to be brought forward immediately. He recommended ministers to turn the matter in their minds, and to state their decision, not that night, but to-morrow or the next day. If that decision should be in favour of the appointment of a committee, it might be immediately nominated, and the subject could then be calmly and dispassionately investigated.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that without pledging himself as to any particular course which the government might think it advisable to adopt, when the motion should be submitted, he hedged to state, on the part of himself and his right hon. friends, that their wish was that the gallant general should take exactly that course which he considered most convenient to himself, to the petitioners, and to all the parties interested. If the gallant officer should fix upon a time when his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade, should, from ill health, be unable to attend, he undertook to say, on the part of those about him, that, they would, though deprived of the assistance of their right hon. colleague, endeavour to give the best explanation in their power of the views of government upon the subject.
 Mr. Gipps  said, he did not think that the averages had been preserved in respect to rye, as compared with wheat. They were, in the present instance, too low, and he would move, as an amendment, that 40 s s
 Mr. C. Grant  said, that in rye, peas, and beans, as in oats and barley, the averages of the last six years had been resorted to, with a view to regulate the price, and the result was what had been laid before the Committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the question, though it lay in a narrow compass, was an important one; but the course of the hon. gentlemen connected with the landed interest placed government in rather an unfair situation. When it had been proposed to rely upon the average of the last six years, in the case of the oats and barley, the hon. gentlemen were quite agreed; because that gave them a better rate than under the old rule they would have obtained: but now, upon the rye and peas, when the weapon cut a little the other way, they wanted to turn about, and said, "Let us calculate upon the old principle." Now it was at least fair that the course pursued should be uniform; and certainly, that taken was one by which the landed gentlemen did not suffer.
 Mr. Cripps  said, that the agriculturists and manufacturers hung together, and it was impossible to depress either, without injury to both. The manufacturers had never been worse off than, when corn was
 1275
 Mr. Whitmore  hoped that the committee would not be led away by the supposition that, the alteration proposed was of a trivial nature. He trusted that ministers would persevere in the original resolution.
 Colonel Wood  said, that the importation of peas and beans was not worth talking about. He put it to the hon. member who had proposed the amendment, whether it was worth while dividing the committee upon it.
 Mr. C. Grant  felt great reluctance in opposing the amendment of his right hon. friend; but he thought the subject had not been rightly understood by the committee. For a long period, the duty on wheat and on flour had been unequal; the disproportion had always been in favour of foreign flour. The resolution went to enact the same duty on flour as on the wheat which would produce it. The resolution said, that 196lb. of flour should correspond with five bushels of wheat. Strictly speaking, from eight bushels of wheat, 336lb. of flour ought to be produced; but the resolution assumed that eight bushels of wheat yielded only 313lb. of flour: the five bushels of wheat were assumed as equal to 196 lb. of flour, when in fact they were equal to 210 lb. By the existing law, when wheat paid a duty of 20 s s d s 1278 s s s s s l s d l s l s d d
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, that when a proposition was made the other night for increasing the protection on bailey and oats, he assented to it, because he thought that the question had not been fairly considered; but, as he now thought that there were no grounds for the amendment of the right hon. baronet, he would support the proposition of government, no matter in how small a majority he might be left. His right hon. friend had stated, that the present bill would place the duty on wheat and flour on an equal footing, and that previously it had been most unequal; the duty on wheat being 12 s s d s
 Mr. Whitmore  objected to the amendment, on the ground that it did not apply to any particular price. He was sure if an additional duty of 4 s
 Mr. Western  complained, that the proportion formerly observed between wheat and other grains had, in this instance, been departed from. The usual proportion of price was two thirds; but they had lowered the price of rye to 35 s s s d s s
 Mr. Sykes  thought that the motion should not be postponed to so late a period.
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that the resolution proposed left the farmers without any remedy, in the event of a losing crop. Now, the fact was, that every crop of the last year, except that of wheat, had been a losing crop. He would support the amendment.
 Colonel Trench  trusted that the Kildare-street Society were not lending themselves to any system of proselytism. He believed that the mistaken zeal of those benevolent persons who endeavoured to make proselytes was the great impediment to the diffusion of education, upon which mainly depended the welfare of the country. The Roman Catholic priests, who were favourably disposed to public instruction, had often been controlled by their bishops; and those bishops had been guided by orders from the pope.
 Mr. Moore  said, that the milling inter-
 1279
 Mr. H. Grattan  said, he was in possession of letters establishing the fact, that there existed a fixed determination, to neglect no means of converting the rising generation to Protestantism. He felt a strong conviction on this point from what had been said elsewhere regarding a new glorious Reformation. If England and Ireland were to go on together—and he hoped the unfortunate measures of ministers would not render it doubtful—the English people and the English cabinet must make up their minds to allow the great body of the Irish people to remain Catholics. Never had a greater imposition been practised upon credulity than to pretend that this new reformation had a chance of being successful. If persevered in, it must end in disunion and calamity. Nothing could be more alarming than the late accounts from Ireland. Letters from Dublin represented, that a sort of religious crusade had already commenced; and that, while in the churches the most vehement abuse was heard of the Roman Catholic faith, the Roman Catholic priests retaliated in their chapels by attacks equally violent upon the Protestant tenets.
 General Gascoyne,  after having postponed his motion so frequently, in order to have the opportunity of hearing the sentiments of his right hon. colleague (Mr. Huskisson) upon the great question which it involved, felt strong reluctance to bring it forward in his absence. As he understood, however, that his right hon. colleague
 1269
 General Gascoyne  said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he would postpone his motion to the 29th instant.
 General Gascoyne  observed, that if
 1271
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that nothing could be more desirable than the practical application of those principles which the right hon. gentleman had stated. The: wish that Protestant and Roman Catholic children should be educated under the; same establishment, without any reference to the speculative religious opinions of their respective churches, was most excellent, was most wise and benevolent. He spoke from extensive experience when he declared, that the most serious changes had taken place in Ireland, in consequence of the increased spirit of conflicting parties, and which rendered those sound, virtuous, and rational principles wholly inapplicable to that country, divided and wretched as she was. It was education alone that could raise Ireland from her low and helpless condition, and enable her to assume her rank among nations. The Catholic children would, of course, be
 1264
 Mr. Abercromby  presented a petition from the Catholics of Abbeyside, in favour of Catholic Emancipation. The hon. member took that opportunity of expressing his regret at the resolution which the House had lately come to on this subject. The news of that vote had created the greatest dismay in Ireland, and had altogether disheartened the friends to the tranquillity of that- unhappy country; because it precluded them from any longer holding out the hope that the period would ever arrive when the British parliament would consent to do justice to the ill-treated population of Ireland. This unhappy event had occurred at a peculiarly unfortunate time; when Ireland was in a state of the greatest distress; when the little employment which her poor had ever had was considerably diminished; when the horrors of famine stared a large part of the population in the face; when the events of the late election had not only, as had been stated in that House, broken the connexion between landlord and tenant in Ireland, but had shaken the, connexion between the two countries to the very centre. At such a moment, to divest the friends of England of power, and to place that power in the hands of those who cherished no attachment to us, was most alarming. By their late decision, the English parliament had caused the question of the Union to be re-opened, and re-discussed, under circumstances of the most unfavourable nature. What the result might be it was impossible to foresee. For himself, he owned, that he should rejoice if even the present session of parliament were to pass without the
 1259
 Mr. James Grattan  entreated the attention of the House for a few moments, while he stated the substance of a Petition with which he had been intrusted, from the Roman Catholic Bishops of Ireland, on the subject of Education in that country. The Petition set forth, that the Roman Catholic population of Ireland had not the benefit of the annual grants made by parliament, and that a system of proselytism was carried on by means of these grants. It was a delusion to vote money to Protestant societies for the education of the Catholic poor of Ireland, since it was not fairly applied to any such purpose. If the real object was the improvement of the moral and intellectual condition of the lower orders in the sister kingdom, it would be far better not to place the sums devoted to such an undertaking in the hands of Protestant societies, but under the management of a board, or under the superintendence of the existing commissioners upon education, they being accountable to parliament for the expenditure. Such a course would give general satisfaction. He did not mean to contend that any sum, great or small, should be placed under the control of the Roman Catholics only, for the education of their poor, but societies which only promoted ill blood, jealousy, and animosity, ought to be got rid of as soon as possible. He begged to call the attention of the House to the progress made in the work of education in the last twenty years. In 1806, a commission had been appointed to make inquiries on the subject of education, from which thirteen reports had proceeded. It was understood, that there was to be no religious interference, and the commissioners went through the charter schools, and many others of private foundation. The hon. gentleman complained that these commissioners had not bestowed any animadversions upon the mode in which the charter schools were conducted; but, on the contrary, had recommended their continuance. The whole sum granted during the last ninety years was 1,600,000 l l 1260 l l l l
 Mr. Calcraft  contended, that every case should stand upon its own merits, and that it mattered little what was the average price of the last six years, if that price afforded no remuneration to the farmer. Now he contended, that it was the duty of the House to enable the grower to sell his corn at the lowest possible rate. The circumstances of the country were such as to call for as cheap a supply of corn as it was possible to obtain. But how was it possible to have cheap corn from the farmer, if his rye and his beans were a continually losing crop? Let the farmer have something like profit on those two articles, and then he could afford to give the corn on more moderate terms.
 Mr. Irving  said, that considering that the manufacture of flour was of great importance, that a large capital was employed in that manufacture in this country, and that it was a staple manufacture in the sister kingdom, it behoved the committee to take care how they interfered with that trade by permitting the importation of foreign flour. He gave his unqualified support to the amendment.
 Mr. J. Smith  begged to state it as his opinion, that, if a true reformation of the Roman Catholics was to be effected in the hasty manner pretended by many, all history was a lie, and all deductions from it utterly without foundation. The last four or five hundred years afforded no precedent to show that vehement abuse, and measures of severity, had gained a single sincere proselyte. Conciliation and kindness might do much; but the course now pursued must proceed in discord, and, perhaps, end in actual violence. No man would go further than himself to promote education; but not in the way now adopted by the dominant party in Ireland. The question would come properly before the House when the annual vote for the Kildare-street Society was introduced; but he could not help stating, that some of the reports upon the table contained instances of the most shocking barbarity; and that not a single shilling ought to have been granted, until measures were taken to put a period to such enormities. He heartily concurred in the object of the petition; and he hoped that the good sense of the right hon. Secretary for Ireland would induce him to discourage a course so impolitic and offensive.
 Mr. Hume  said, that the petition was of the highest importance, recollecting the repeated discussions, during the last ten years, upon education in Ireland. After the House had so liberally granted money for the education of the poor of that country, it was quite preposterous that it should be placed in the hands of individuals, to be applied, not to the instruction of the children of the poor Catholics, but to that of the comparatively rich Protestants. It was impossible to force education on the lower orders of Ireland; especially when the money for that purpose was placed in the hands of individuals, who, the Catholic clergy believed, had views of proselytism. Suspicions of this kind had been entertained for some years, and they were now most materially fortified. It was worse than a waste of the public money, to vote it for a good pur-
 1261 l
 Sir T. Lethbridge  contended, that there ought to be an alteration in favour of the home-grower, and that the resolution, as it now stood, could not be agreed to without injuring the agricultural interest. A great deal had been said about the conduct of landed gentlemen; but he begged the House to recollect, that they were there upon their defence, and that they would not do their duty if they did not watch every item of the resolutions.
 Sir T. Lethbridge  said, it might be the wish of ministers, but he doubted their ability, to follow up the liberal system in all its bearings. It was with some surprise that he had listened to the observations of the hon. member for Callington that night, because he recollected that, three years ago, on presenting a petition to that House, the hon. member had called upon government to carry into execution those very principles which he now so strongly objected to [hear, hear]. For himself, he entertained the same opinion which he at that time expressed; namely, that it was impossible for this highly-taxed country to follow up the system of free trade. The distress of the ship-owners arose from this circumstance—that the protection which they formerly enjoyed against the competition of foreign shipping had been withdrawn. Nobody could desire more than himself to see the President of the Board of Trade in the House again; but he thought the question was one which ought not to be postponed on account of the absence of any individual. He trusted that the hon. general would not postpone his motion beyond next week; for he knew well the anxiety which was felt on the subject, and the vital interests which were at stake.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  called the attention of the committee to the scarcity which prevailed in 1801, and hoped that they would not adopt any system, but one that would work in all seasons—in seasons of plenty as well as scarcity. If they did, it would certainly break down. Millers, from the very nature of things, possessed a monopoly. He knew it to be a fact, that during the great scarcity in this country, when the quartern loaf was at 22½ d d
 Mr. Spring Rice  thought the amendment proposed by his right hon. friend was fair and reasonable. If the importation of foreign flour were sanctioned, upon payment of the duty stated in the original resolution, the consequence would be that the difference between the freight of wheat when imported raw, and when manufactured into flour, would reduce the protection price of wheat from 60 s s d 1277
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, he thought that the Society was, from its principles, utterly disqualified to undertake the care of the education of children in Ireland. He made this assertion with sincerity; but at the same time with much reluctance. The hon. member for Waterford had declared his intention of moving, that the subject of education in Ireland should be referred to a select committee. He trusted that the House would then indulge him with a patient hearing; for he was convinced that there were no means of acquiring any moral influence over the people of Ireland, but by establishments of public education. By the present system, boys in early life would be told, when they associated at school, that no difference existed between them, on account of their religious opinions; but when they arrived at the age when the passions were strong, they would be told, that a great difference did exist, and that those who were Catholics must go on one side as a disqualified, proscribed race. A system of divided education was certainly a great evil; but it was the necessary consequence of a divided people, and of divided institutions.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  said, that if the motion were postponed to the 1st of May, the appointment of a committee at that period would be useless, so far as regarded the present session.
 Sir E. Knatchbull  thought, that the whole calculation of ministers had been upon erroneous principles. The average taken had been that of the last six years: now the fact was, that during the whole of the last six years, the agriculturists, instead of making a profit, had been growing to a loss. The course of ministers ought to have been, not to consider the average, but to ascertain what was a fair remunerating price.
 Mr. G. Robinson  trusted, that it was not the intention of ministers to give way upon this point, as they had done in the case of oats and barley. The landed gentlemen should recollect, that there were other interests to protect besides their own.
 Sir John Brydges  said, he was anxious to say a few words, and they should be a few words only, not having hitherto had an opportunity to express his opinion upon the subject under discussion. But before
 1272 1273
 Sir J. Newport  asked why, if the right hon. member's reasoning were correct, a prohibitory duty had been laid on the importation of American flour into the British West-India Islands?
 Sir J. Newport  proposed as an amendment, that the following words should be added to the resolution, "and also a duty not fluctuating of 4 s 1276
 Sir John Newport  said, that whenever the estimates for the Kildare-street Society were brought forward, he would oppose this grant, with a hope of directing its better application.
 Sir T. Gooch  denied that the quantity of peas and beans grown in England was trifling. Two thirds of the land in England were capable of producing that crop, which was generally sown as a preparation for a wheat crop, and it was called by farmers the "golden crop;" but if the political economists were to carry their point, that crop must be henceforth called the "copper crop." He gave his hearty concurrence to the amendment.
 Mr. Secretary Peel , in the absence of Mr. Secretary Canning, presented, by command of his Majesty, the following
 Mr. Hobhouse , with all due deference to the right hon. gentleman, conceived that this was not a case in which the House was called upon to interfere. No impediment had been offered—no blow had been struck; and he must observe, that if any offence was given, it was the refusal, in the first instance, of the petitioner himself to return the common courtesy which Mr. French had offered him. He was therefore of opinion, that no case had been made out to warrant the interference of the House. If, indeed, the witness had been assaulted, and rendered incapable of giving his evidence, the House in that case
 1308
 Mr. Bernal  said, that the right hon. gentleman opposite seemed to think that one of the parties in this case had been guilty of a breach of privilege. Now, in that opinion, he could by no means agree; for not one word had been uttered in the lobby connected with the business, on which the parties had been summoned as witnesses. He, therefore, called upon the right hon. gentleman, whose authority in such cases was certainly high, and whose memory no doubt was furnished with ample precedents, to point out any one case similar to that which was now before the Mouse. He thought it would be a hard case if the House decided that Mr. French should be called to the bar and admonished.
 Mr. Secretary Peel  said, he had not enjoyed the advantage of hearing the examination of the witness at the bar; but, from what he had heard, it rather appeared to him that the evidence did not entirely support the allegations of the petition. It was certainly questionable whether the party who had petitioned the House had exercised a sound discretion in doing so; but he had done so, and had stated that he was insulted. After the evidence which had been given, he thought that a
 1310
 Mr. Lambert  then proceeded to state, that on Tuesday last he came down to the House, in consequence of a summons which he received to attend the committee appointed to try the Galway election. "I had not been five minutes in the lobby," the gentleman continued, "when Mr. French came up, and said, 'How do you do, Lambert, I am glad to see you,' and asked me to shake hands with him. In consequence of the conduct pursued by Mr. French, when a trial was pending on which my life was at stake, I declined to shake hands with him, but merely made him a low bow. I forgot to state that Mr. Baggot was along with me, and also a Mr. Phipps. Mr. Butler, who is a relation of mine, and a friend of Mr. French, was also with me. As soon as I made the bow, and declined to accept Mr. French's hand, he got into a violent fit of passion; so much so, that his countenance became suddenly distorted with rage. He said, 'I deserve this treatment, for contaminating this hand by offering to shake hands with such a contemptible rascal.' I bowed and thanked him. Two or three gentlemen, who happened to be in the lobby at the time, came over to my friend, Mr. Butler, and asked him if that gentleman
 1307
 Mr. Lambert  said, "I forgot to mention that one or two gentlemen wished me to call for a constable, to give Mr. French into custody, but I declined to do so, as I did not think it necessary."
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  considered the point upon which the attention of the House was employed as one of the most frivolous he had ever heard discussed. He would venture to say that there was hardly ever a committee, in reference to which some trifling squabble did not occur, which might not with as much reason be made the subject of an application for the interference of the House. The hon. member to whom the petition had been intrusted had done quite right in presenting it; but he was of opinion that there was nothing in it which called for any further step on the part of the House.
 Mr. Alderman Waithman  said, that there was already before the House a petition from gentlemen connected with the Shipping Interests of the city of London. He held in his hand a petition of a similar nature, from a body of ship-owners in London, of equal respectability. The two bodies to whom he alluded were associated, and had appointed a committee; and although the petition he was about to present was not united with the preceding, it was of a precisely similar nature. The present petition was signed by more than two hundred and fifty persons. They represented the hardship of their case arising out of the laws recently passed by the House, and by which the House had removed certain restrictions upon foreign shipping which had proved an essential security to the British shipping interest. The petitioners stated, that it was now impossible for them to enter into competition with foreigners,
 1313
 Colonel Davies  said, the hon. member who spoke last, had alluded to the proverb, "that those who lived in glass houses ought not to throw stones." He would leave the House to appreciate the good feeling and good taste of such an allusion. He would not himself give any opinion on the subject, much less would he, in imitation of the hon. member, bring before the House the misfortunes—for he could call them nothing but misfortunes—which befel the hon. member himself some years ago. If he followed that hon. member's example, he could mention transactions, connected with the hon. member's name, which would bring a blush of shame on that hon. member's cheeks [cheers and murmurs].
 Colonel Davies  resumed. Certainly, he said, when he rose to speak, he was labouring under feelings which were painful to utter; but he believed the great body of the House would concur with him, that his feelings were such as ought to animate every man who had a heart. The gallant member then referred to the details of the melancholy transaction which they were discussing. He was the last person who would impute cruelty to the gallant general who commanded. He believed him to be a brave, honourable, and humane man: but he contended, nevertheless, that the production of the papers was necessary to the vindication of sir E. Paget's character; and to shew where the guilt really lay.
 Mr. Money  admitted that more lives were lost than was necessary, but it was natural that soldiers, irritated and let loose on their opponents, should commit excesses that humanity must deplore. As to the effects of the example made on that occasion they were most beneficial; as appeared from the present superior discipline of the Bengal army. The hon. member said, he should oppose the production of the report.
 General Duff  spoke with great warmth against the motion. The hon. gentleman who had brought it forward, had, he said, undertaken to treat of a subject which he did not understand. He might be very good
 1337
 Mr. Maberly  was not of opinion that the conduct of sir E. Paget was blamcable; but it was equally clear that there was something connected with this mutiny which the public were not to see. The Sepoys complained of grievances, which had since been admitted and redressed. It was evidently necessary that some substantial remedy should be applied, to prevent the recurrence of an event which might lead to the loss of our vast empire in the east.
 Lord Rancliffe  expressed his disinclination to trouble the House unnecessarily, or to do any thing that might be considered ungracious. He would therefore not press his opposition to the measure to a division.
 Mr. Kennedy  moved for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the Salmon Fisheries of the United Kingdom. He proposed to allow ample time for filling up the blanks; so that all parties likely to be interested in, or affected by, the bill, might be in possession of its details.
 Mr. Warburton  said, that a former report on this subject had assigned, as one of the causes of the diminution in the breed of fish, that the rivers of England were fished too hard; and it was suggested, that water-bailiffs should be appointed for their better superintendence and protection. Now, to him it appeared, that a much more eligible mode might be hit upon for increasing the supply of this fish, than the adoption of any new system of Game-laws, as he was tempted to call this proposal. Fresh salmon, under the existing law, was a prohibited article. Perhaps the gentlemen of Scotland who possessed salmon wears and fisheries could explain how this had happened. Turbot and lobsters might be freely imported; but not so salmon. Now, when his hon. friend's bill should be brought in, he meant to contend for a free trade in salmon.
 Sir R. Fergusson  was convinced that his hon. friend could not have read the bill; the object of which was, to open the salmon fishery of this country, which, by the present law, was closed. The aim of his hon. friend's bill was to increase the breed by diminishing the period within which salmon might be taken.
 Mr. G. Lamb  hoped that sufficient time would be allowed to transmit copies of the bill to all the proprietors of these fisheries throughout the United Kingdom. The original report he had read; and he ap-
 1343 1344
 Lord Rancliffe  said, he was so averse to the grant, that he would take the sense of the House upon this the last stage of the measure.
 Mr. Martin French , and Mr. Thomas Lambert were ordered to attend the House to-morrow.
 Sir Charles Forbes  maintained, that the Report of the Committee of Inquiry ought to be produced, if it were only for the purpose of supporting the case which the right hon. gentleman seemed to suppose he had so triumphantly made out. Its publication was due also to sir Edward Paget, and to the European officers. It was due besides to the native officers who had been dismissed the service without a Court-martial, or any inquiry—a proceeding which would not have been adopted with respect to European officers. It was most unjust to have one law for the natives, and another for the Europeans. The same rule ought to be adopted for all. It was necessary to have the Report on the table, that every one might be able to satisfy himself where the blame rested; especially after a transaction of such a horrible nature, that nothing like it had before occurred in the British dominions, either at home or abroad. There was nothing in this case but what usually occurred among the native troops; who never scrupled to complain when they thought themselves ill-used, and even to mutiny until their grievances were redressed. Certain regiments had before so far mutinied, even in the face of an army; and sometimes whole armies had mutinied on the same grounds. The mutiny of the army of Scindea was an example. He did not mean to justify such things; they would be done among the native troops; but they did not require this mode of punishment; and, in point of fact, neither this nor any other example of the kind would prevent such things occurring among those troops. There was only one way to prevent mutiny among the native troops—and that way was, to do them justice, and to use them well. Treat them in this manner, and they would submit to the greatest privations and hardships, and might form an example to other troops. They had been sometimes in arrears of pay for eight, twelve, even eighteen months; having nothing but a bare subsistence. But they did not complain, and rested satisfied with the assurance of their
 1331 1332
 Mr. Forbes  considered that the papers called for were absolutely requisite, to shew whether a case of sufficient necessity really did arise, for the dreadful massacre in which, not only one hundred and sixty of the native soldiers had lost their lives, but many women and children, residing in their huts, were sacrificed also.
 Mr. Pallmer  supported the bill. He thought it must be satisfactory to those who supported the grant to know that the illustrious personages who were the objects of it, exhibited a pattern of domestic virtue and hospitality.
 Mr. D. W. Harvey  said, that he had divided against this grant on every occasion, but not on either of the grounds which had been advanced by his honourable friends. Those who might be termed the
 1341
 Mr. Littleton  perfectly concurred in the view which the hon. and learned gentleman had taken of the subject. Nothing had occurred tending to a breach of the peace; and even if there had, the police had interfered to prevent any unpleasant consequences.
 Mr. Home Drummond  had no objection to the bill being introduced, but he begged to forewarn the hon. member for Ayr, that, if his information as to the nature of some of its clauses was correct, the measure would be considered, by the owners of salmon wears in Scotland, as a mere attempt to take money out of the pockets of one set of proprietors, in order to deposit it in the pockets of another set.
 Mr. Abercromby  agreed in the general principle, that the House had a right, in vindication of its honour and dignity, to call persons before them who were guilty of a breach of privilege; but at the same time he could not agree that the present case was one in which that power should be exerted. Another argument against the House interfering in this quarrel, was, that the civil power had already interposed between the parties. He therefore conceived, that the House would be wasting its time, and compromising its dignity, by interfering in the case.
 Mr. J. Grattan  concurred in the opinion of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. If any insult had passed between the parties, it appeared to have originated with the petitioner himself.
 Mr. Hume  said, that in rising to submit to the House the question of which he had so long given notice, he felt it necessary to state, that whatever he should now do upon this subject would be done by him with the greatest reluctance. He would not have submitted this matter to their consideration, if he had not been fully convinced of its great importance as relating to our government in India, and to all our connections with the affairs of that country. The occurrence to which he was about to call the attention of the House took place in the early part of the month of November, 1824. When he mentioned that date, a question might naturally arise, why so great a delay had occurred in laying a subject of so much importance before parliament. Upon that point he should only state, that in the middle of the month of July, 1825, in the course of the session of that year, he had requested to know from the President of the Board of Control, whether the government of this country had received any information of the transactions which had taken place in India in the November preceding? The right hon. gentleman answered then in the negative; and gave the same answer up to the last week in the session, when it was too late to take any step on the subject. In the last session he had given two notices upon this subject; but by some of those chances which frequently occurred, he was twice prevent-
 1314 1315 1316 1317 1318 batta coolies coolies 1319 1320 1321 1322 1323 1324
 Mr. Hume  answered in the affirmative.
 Mr. Hume , in reply, contended, that the right hon. gentleman himself, with a degree of candour for which he was bound to thank him, had, in fact, admitted the whole of the case, with one or two exceptions that were of little moment; for he admitted, that the evils complained of by the native troops, as to the deficiency of beasts, and other means of transport and accommodation, had existed, and that they had since been remedied. He was very glad to hear this assurance; but the admission with which it was coupled sanctioned the principle of the motion now before the House. In stating the loss of human life, however, on this melancholy occasion, at only one hundred and sixty, the right hon. gentleman greatly underrated the extent of the calamity, for he did not include the one hundred and fifty natives who perished in their attempt to escape over the river, and were shot at like so many wild fowl. As to those who had been described as the great fomenters of the discontents, and the necessity of whose removal had been, in some sort, made the excuse for the attack upon the sepoys, it was notorious that they lived in line with the rest of the native troops; and might, at any moment, have been all of them seized and executed, if their destruction was thought essential to the preservation of our influence and power in India. But our own troops and officers had, by their acts, increased the discontent and resentment of the sepoys; who did, however, manifest, in return for what they felt as insults and injuries, the most extraordinary forbearance. Among other instances of this forbearance on their part, was the case of colonel Dalzel. That officer, who did not understand a word of Hindostanee, in the irritation of the moment, reviled and abused them, and addressed to them epithets, which among our own soldiers and sailors would be re-
 1340
 Mr. Hume  said, he could not allow this bill to pass without again raising his voice against it, and declaring the grant to be a profligate waste of the public money, and that it placed his royal highness in a most degrading situation. However, he would not press the question to a division, as he had on a former occasion experienced its inutility.
 Dr. Phillimore  said, that the case appeared to be this,—two witnesses, both of whom had been summoned on an election committee, had had a quarrel, and one charged the other with a breach of privilege. Under all the circumstances, he conceived that the House would not be doing equal justice, if both parties were not ordered to attend.
 Mr. Hart Davis .—Even taking the sentiments in that letter to be as stated by the hon. member, was it fair towards the commander-in-chief, or towards the writer of the letter, who, under the excitement of heated feelings, had, in a letter strictly private, expressed his opinions, to bring them forward in a public discussion? Would it be fair towards any man, to bring-forward upon a motion attaching censure to him, the opinions expressed by other persons, in a confidential communication? He should be glad to know, what would be the feelings of the hon. member for Montrose, if such a course were pursued upon a motion made with respect to the
 1334
 Mr. Hart Davis  said, he must, upon the authority of a letter received from a relative in India, deny the assertion made by an hon. member, that the artillery was brought unawares upon the mutineers. The fact was, that the tents of the mutineers were close to the cannon; that they were aware of the intention of the officer in command to make use of the artillery; and that, notwithstanding their being aware of such intention, they actually
 1333
 Mr. Hart Davis  rose instantly. "I call; upon the gallant colonel," said he, "to explain what he means. He may say what he pleases. I defy him."
 Mr. Spring Rice  said, that his duty, in the first instance, was confined to presenting the petition of Mr. Lambert; but now that the case was before the House, he must be permitted to say, that it was one in which they were called upon to exercise that sound and wholesome authority, which they possessed. He contended, that the consequences would be most dangerous, if insulting words, tending to a breach of the peace, were passed over without any expression of displeasure, because no blows had been struck. There was no principle more dangerous than this; and he conceived the House was imperatively called upon to discourage such a doctrine. His chief object in presenting this petition was, that persons summoned as witnesses before committees of that House, should know that the House was ready to take up any question, involving their safety or protection. He did not wish to have the person petitioned against in this case called to the bar of the House; but he hoped that the notice of this discussion would have its proper effect.
 Mr. Spring Rice .—Are you not in attendance in consequence of a summons issued by the Speaker, requiring your attendance as a witness before the committee appointed to investigate the merits of the Galway election?—Yes I am.
 Mr. Spring Rice  rose to present a Petition on a matter affecting; the vital interests of parliament, and the privileges of the House. He moved, however, first, that the usual sessional order against tampering with or influencing witnesses to be examined on matters before the House, which was in that order declared to be a high misdemeanour, should be read. The order having been read, the hon. member stated, that his petition was from a Mr. Thomas Lambert, of Gal way, brother to the gentleman who had presented a petition against the return of Richard Martin, esq. The petitioner stated himself to have been since the late election, in a very delicate state of health, but upon receiving the Speaker's summons, he proceeded to London, and when in the lobby of the House, was insulted and assaulted by Martin French, esq., whom the petitioner believed to be the active supporter and warm partisan of Mr. Richard Martin. The petitioner declared he had given no provocation for such an attack, and prayed the protection of the House. The hon. member said, he did not intend to move for the attendance of the person mentioned, because he hoped that this notice of it would be enough to show that the House had the power of protecting its witnesses, and would enforce that power so as to put a stop to occurrences like that now complained of, and without which witnesses might often be exposed to difficulty and danger.
 Mr. Wynn  thought the matter ought not to stop here; because it became the House to maintain its dignity and show its power. When its witnesses were molested some time ago, the House had sent a man to prison for attacking a gentleman in the lobby; and he therefore moved that the petitioner, and Mr. Martin French should be ordered to attend to-morrow.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the usual course pursued by the House in cases of this description was to call both the petitioner and the person petitioned against to the bar of the House,—a course which he suggested should be pursued to-morrow, when Mr. French would have an opportunity of replying to the charge contained in the petition.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that a petition having been presented, and evidence having been heard at the bar in support of its allegations, he thought it would be wrong for the House to come to the decision, that the prayer of the petition should not be entertained. Witnesses who attended that House should be protected. If a gentleman refused to shake hands with another, that was no reason why he should be threatened. After hearing the petition read and its principal allegations supported by the evidence of the petitioner, he conceived that the party complained against should be called to the bar and admonished. It was said, that the civil power had taken up the case; but in what way did it do so? Merely by calling upon the parties to pledge their honour that nothing hostile should pass between them. This might be sufficient for the purpose of keeping the peace; but the House had another duty to perform; and it was a question to be considered, whether, if this case was passed over, the House would not be surrendering that protection which they should extend to their witnesses. The better way, he conceived, would be for both the gentlemen to attend at the bar of the House to-morrow.
 Mr. Wynn  then moved, "That it appears to this House, that John Stanbury has absconded, to avoid being taken into custody, pursuant to an order of the House." Also, "That a humble address be presented to his majesty, praying that he will be graciously pleased immediately to issue his royal proclamation, with such reward as his majesty shall think proper, for discovering, apprehending, and detaining the said John Stanbury."—Agreed to.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he felt bound to do justice to the moderation of the statement of the hon. member, although he held it inconsistent with the good of the service, and with the prosperity of our government in India, to grant the documents required. The hon. gentleman had introduced no inflammatory matter, and no needless exaggerations; and if he was inaccurate in some of the details he had presented to the House, no blame for mis-information
 1325 l 1326 1327 1328 1329 1330
 Mr. Wynn  in explanation, said, that the letter alluded to by the hon. member was a private letter to lord Amherst from captain Amherst, an amiable young man, acting at the time under the influence of warm and excited feelings; but in no part of the correspondence of lord Amherst with this country, was there any expression of censure upon the conduct of the commander-in-chief.
 The Speaker  begged leave to recall the attention of the House to an order made a few days back for the taking into custody John Stanbury, who was reported by the Penryn Election committee to have absented himself. It was directed, by order of the House, that he should be taken into custody, in consequence of his not having attended before the committee. The Speaker's warrant was accordingly issued for the purpose, and a messenger was deputed to carry it into execution; but the party having- absconded, all his endeavours to discover and apprehend him were unsuccessful; and although he was a second time despatched from town on a similar mission, his efforts were attended with as little beneficial results as before. The usual course on such occasions was to have the messenger to the bar, that the House might hear from himself what steps he had taken for fulfilling the order of the House; and if it should then appear expedient to the House, to present an address to the Crown, praying his majesty to issue a proclamation, with a reward for the apprehension of the party. 1312
 The Speaker  asked if any member wished to put any question to the messenger; and no advantage being taken of the invitation, the messenger was permitted to withdraw.
 The Speaker  said, that he never interfered with the proceedings of the House without great pain, and often not without some doubt as to whether, in what he was doing, he might be doing good. Certain he was that his interference could never do good, except in cases where it was absolutely necessary—a consideration which often kept him silent. But perhaps the best proof which could be had of the utility of observing even rigorously the forms of the House, was to be found in the inconvenience which commonly arose from any deviation from them. In the beginning, the mischief seemed trifling; but it almost constantly very soon increased to an extent which the House itself could not bear. The hon. member for Bristol could hardly fail to be aware, that he had begun, in the present case, by deviating from the immediate subject before the House, and alluding to topics connected entirely with other matter. How far the observations made
 1335
 The Speaker .—Has any hon: member any question to propose to the witness?
 The Speaker .—Have you any thing further to add?
 The Speaker  asked,' if it was the pleasure of the House that the Serjeant-at-Arms should inquire if Mr. Lambert was in attendance, and the House having sig-
 1306
 The Speaker .—Is it the pleasure of the House that Mr. Lambert should be called in?
 The Speaker .—What is your name?—Thomas Lambert.
 The Speaker .—Is this your name attached to this petition?—This is my name.
 Sir J. Yorke  observed, that the question did not appear to be whether Mr. French was a hundred miles off from the petitioner, or only a yard; but whether an assault was committed, or attempted to be committed, within the precincts of that House.
 Sir Joseph Yorke  said, he had heard several, but not all of the speeches which had been delivered, on this occasion, and among others, that of the hon. baronet (sir C. Forbes) whose speech seemed to comprise all the observations that had fallen from all the East India proprietors during the last twenty years. He had also heard the very temperate and conciliatory remarks of the Chair, in its endeavour to produce a better understanding between two hon. members; but he certainly had not heard any attack attempted on the character of sir E. Paget, although he had heard it vindicated, as if some hostile animadversions had been made upon it. The fact was, that sir E. Paget, in the extraordinary situation in which he found himself, had but done that, which every brave and humane man, in the capacity of commander-in-chief, would have done under similar circumstances. He had, undoubtedly, acquitted himself in an honourable, a just and a gallant manner. But the question before the House was, whether these papers should or should not be granted? All agreed that sir Edward had not proceeded to extremities, until that course could be no longer avoided. But, in answer to this demand for the papers necessary to put parliament in possession of the history of this unfortunate transaction, he had heard one of his majesty's ministers affirm, that their production would be exceedingly inconvenient; and if it rested on that right hon. gentleman's own responsibility,
 1338
 Sir H. Vivian  expressed not only his regret at the occurrence of so many mutinies in India, within the last twenty years, but his conviction of the necessity of putting an end to them by such a measure as that adopted by sir Edward Paget. He had known and served with his gallant friend many years: he had been in the same regiment and the same company with him; and he had had many opportunities of witnessing the humanity of his disposition. It was well said, in a general order issued by an illustrious individual, whose loss they had lately to deplore, that "the brightest gem in the character of the British soldier was humanity." Now, in no bosom did that gem shine more brightly than in that of his gallant friend. He could assure the House, that there was no officer in the British army more adverse to unnecessary severity of discipline, than that gallant officer. Menacing and mutiny on the part of soldiers, with arms in their hands, ought to be instantly suppressed on all occasions; but particularly in a country so circumstanced as India. Were not all proper means used to prevent the unhappy
 1336
 Sir Robert Wilson  differed entirely from the worthy alderman, and conceived that his own arguments were sufficient to prove that it was incumbent on the House to
 1311
 Sir J. Beresford , when he heard some hon. gentlemen really doubting whether the transactions which had been so much referred to that evening, did or did not amount to a mutiny, begged to observe, that he had received a letter from a brother officer of rank, who was present at the scene, and who not only described it as a mutiny, but declared that sir E. Paget had—by his forbearance in the beginning, and his determination at the conclusion, of those transactions—as much entitled himself to the praise of having saved his country, so far as her eastern dominion was concerned, as lord St. Vincent had done, by his admirable conduct in the mutiny off Cadiz, in preserving to Great Britain the allegiance of her navy. This officer had written,
 1339
 Lord Althorp  said, he had opposed the vote in the first instance, but had abstained from taking a part in the discussion since that period. He put it to his noble friend whether, as it was evident, the majority of the House was favourable to
 1342
