 gave notice that, on the 7th of February, he would submit to the House a motion, touching the state of the Law of this Country, and its Administration in the Courts of Justice, with a view to such Reforms in the same as time may have rendered necessary, and experience may have shewn to be expedient.Mr. Brougham
"To return to his Majesty our grateful acknowledgments for the confidence which he has been pleased to express in our continued desire to improve the condition of all classes of his Majesty's subjects, and to recognize the paternal goodness of his Majesty in recommending to our care, as the first object of his Majesty's solicitude, the prosperity and happiness of his people.""To assure his Majesty, that this improvement of our foreign trade is peculiarly gratifying to us, on account of its having led to a more general employment of the population, and because it is a satisfactory indication of the continued abatement of those commercial difficulties which recently affected so severely the national industry."To express to his Majesty our satisfaction in learning that, notwithstanding the diminution which has taken place in some branches of the Revenue, the total amount of receipt during the last year has not disappointed the expectations which were entertained at the commencement of it, and that a considerable increase has taken place in the export of the principal articles of British manufacture."To assure his Majesty, that we will, in pursuance of his Majesty's recommendation, institute an early inquiry into the state of the Revenue and Expenditure of the country."To return our acknowledgments to his Majesty, for having ordered the Estimates for the current year to be laid before us, and for the assurance that they have been prepared with every regard to economy consistent with the exigency of the Public Service."To thank his Majesty for having directed to be laid before us copies of the Treaties of Amity and Commerce which his Majesty has concluded with the emperor of Brazil, and with the United States of Mexico.43"To assure his Majesty that we are highly gratified by learning that the purposes for which his Majesty, upon the requisition of the Court of Lisbon, detached
43"To express to his Majesty our sincere satisfaction in learning that it is his Majesty's determination in maintaining the national faith, by adhering to the engagements into which his Majesty has entered, never to lose sight of the great objects to which all his Majesty's efforts have been directed—the termination of the contest between the hostile parties—the permanent settlement of their future relations to each other—and the maintenance of the repose of Europe upon the basis on which it has rested since the last general Treaty of Peace."To assure his Majesty, that we participate in the regret expressed by his Majesty, notwithstanding the valour displayed by the combined fleet, that a conflict should have occurred with the naval force of an ancient ally, and that we rejoice to learn that his Majesty still entertains a confident hope that this untoward event will not be followed by further hostilities, and will not impede that amicable adjustment of the existing differences between the Porte and the Greeks, to which it is so manifestly their common interest to accede."To thank his Majesty, for having informed us, that in the course of the measures adopted with a view to carry into effect the object of the Treaty, a collision, wholly unexpected by his Majesty, took place in the Port of Navarin, between the fleets of the contracting powers and that of the Ottoman Porte."And also for the directions which his Majesty has been pleased to give, that there should be laid before us copies of a Protocol, signed at St. Petersburgh by the Plenipotentiaries of his Majesty and of his Imperial Majesty the emperor of Russia, on the 4th of April, 1826, and of the Treaty entered into between his Majesty and the Courts of the Tuileries and of St. Petersburgh, on the 6th of July, 1827."Humbly to thank his Majesty for the I communication which he has made to us, that his Majesty having been earnestly entreated by the Greeks to interpose his good offices, with a view to effect a reconciliation between them and the Ottoman Porte, had concerted measures for that purpose in the first instance with the emperor of Russia, and subsequently with his Imperial Majesty and the king of France.42"To assure his Majesty, that we participate in the deep anxiety felt by his Majesty, to terminate the calamities, and avert the dangers, inseparable from hostilities, which constitute the only exception to the general tranquillity of Europe."To assure his Majesty, that our regret is increased by learning, that in the progress of that contest, the rights of neutral states, and the laws which regulate the intercourse of civilized nations, have been repeatedly violated, and the peaceful commerce of his Majesty's subjects has been exposed to frequent interruption, and to depredations, too often aggravated by acts of violence and atrocity."To express to his Majesty our deep regret that the state of affairs in the East of Europe should have been the subject of great concern to his Majesty; and that a contest should have been so long carried on between the Ottoman Porte and the inhabitants of the Greek Provinces and Islands, which has been marked on each side by excesses revolting to humanity."To assure his Majesty, that we feel the greatest satisfaction in learning that his Majesty continues to receive from all foreign princes and states, assurances of their desire to maintain the relations of amity with this country; and that the great powers of Europe participate in the earnest wish of his Majesty, to cultivate a good understanding upon all points which may conduce to the preservation of peace."That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty—to return his Majesty our humble thanks for the gracious Speech which his Majesty has directed to be delivered by the Lords Commissioners.414039383736 said: —In rising, Sir, on the present occasion, to move, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, I must observe, in the outset, that no degree of confidence in my own powers has placed me in this situation: on the contrary, there is no man mere diffident of himself, and with reason, than I am. I am not, indeed, a young member, but I have troubled the House very seldom upon any subject pf discussion that has come before it. Having mentioned this circumstance, may add, that, as long as a person—to whom I can hardly allude without an emotion which deprives me of the little power I have pf expressing myself—as long as that person, I mean my noble brother, was not
"To return to his Majesty our grateful acknowledgments for the confidence which he has been pleased to express in our continued desire to improve the condition of all classes of his Majesty's subjects, and to recognize the paternal goodness of his Majesty in recommending to our care, as the first object of his Majesty's solicitude, the prosperity and happiness of his people.""To assure his Majesty, that this improvement of our foreign trade is peculiarly gratifying to us, on account of its having led to a more general employment of the population, and because it is a satisfactory indication of the continued abatement of those commercial difficulties which recently affected so severely the national industry."To express to his Majesty our satisfaction in learning that, notwithstanding the diminution which has taken place in some branches of the Revenue, the total amount of receipt during the last year has not disappointed the expectations which were entertained at the commencement of it, and that a considerable increase has taken place in the export of the principal articles of British manufacture."To assure his Majesty, that we will, in pursuance of his Majesty's recommendation, institute an early inquiry into the state of the Revenue and Expenditure of the country."To return our acknowledgments to his Majesty, for having ordered the Estimates for the current year to be laid before us, and for the assurance that they have been prepared with every regard to economy consistent with the exigency of the Public Service."To thank his Majesty for having directed to be laid before us copies of the Treaties of Amity and Commerce which his Majesty has concluded with the emperor of Brazil, and with the United States of Mexico.43"To assure his Majesty that we are highly gratified by learning that the purposes for which his Majesty, upon the requisition of the Court of Lisbon, detached
43"To express to his Majesty our sincere satisfaction in learning that it is his Majesty's determination in maintaining the national faith, by adhering to the engagements into which his Majesty has entered, never to lose sight of the great objects to which all his Majesty's efforts have been directed—the termination of the contest between the hostile parties—the permanent settlement of their future relations to each other—and the maintenance of the repose of Europe upon the basis on which it has rested since the last general Treaty of Peace."To assure his Majesty, that we participate in the regret expressed by his Majesty, notwithstanding the valour displayed by the combined fleet, that a conflict should have occurred with the naval force of an ancient ally, and that we rejoice to learn that his Majesty still entertains a confident hope that this untoward event will not be followed by further hostilities, and will not impede that amicable adjustment of the existing differences between the Porte and the Greeks, to which it is so manifestly their common interest to accede."To thank his Majesty, for having informed us, that in the course of the measures adopted with a view to carry into effect the object of the Treaty, a collision, wholly unexpected by his Majesty, took place in the Port of Navarin, between the fleets of the contracting powers and that of the Ottoman Porte."And also for the directions which his Majesty has been pleased to give, that there should be laid before us copies of a Protocol, signed at St. Petersburgh by the Plenipotentiaries of his Majesty and of his Imperial Majesty the emperor of Russia, on the 4th of April, 1826, and of the Treaty entered into between his Majesty and the Courts of the Tuileries and of St. Petersburgh, on the 6th of July, 1827."Humbly to thank his Majesty for the I communication which he has made to us, that his Majesty having been earnestly entreated by the Greeks to interpose his good offices, with a view to effect a reconciliation between them and the Ottoman Porte, had concerted measures for that purpose in the first instance with the emperor of Russia, and subsequently with his Imperial Majesty and the king of France.42"To assure his Majesty, that we participate in the deep anxiety felt by his Majesty, to terminate the calamities, and avert the dangers, inseparable from hostilities, which constitute the only exception to the general tranquillity of Europe."To assure his Majesty, that our regret is increased by learning, that in the progress of that contest, the rights of neutral states, and the laws which regulate the intercourse of civilized nations, have been repeatedly violated, and the peaceful commerce of his Majesty's subjects has been exposed to frequent interruption, and to depredations, too often aggravated by acts of violence and atrocity."To express to his Majesty our deep regret that the state of affairs in the East of Europe should have been the subject of great concern to his Majesty; and that a contest should have been so long carried on between the Ottoman Porte and the inhabitants of the Greek Provinces and Islands, which has been marked on each side by excesses revolting to humanity."To assure his Majesty, that we feel the greatest satisfaction in learning that his Majesty continues to receive from all foreign princes and states, assurances of their desire to maintain the relations of amity with this country; and that the great powers of Europe participate in the earnest wish of his Majesty, to cultivate a good understanding upon all points which may conduce to the preservation of peace."That an humble Address be presented to his Majesty—to return his Majesty our humble thanks for the gracious Speech which his Majesty has directed to be delivered by the Lords Commissioners.414039383736The Hon. Cecil Jenkinson
5857565554535251ex parte,50 said, he agreed most entirely in one of the observations of his hon. and learned friend who had just seconded the Address, and the propriety of which must indeed receive a general and unqualified assent; namely, that circumstances rendered the present time most inconvenient for the discussion of the several important matters referred to in the Speech from the Throne. At the same time, he must, on his own part, as well as on that of the constitutional authority of the House, assert the unquestionable right of every member to discuss, if it so pleased him, every part of the Speech which had been read from the chair, just as if the whole of his majesty's ministers were at that moment in their seats in parliament. But, while he asserted such a right he assented to the manifest inexpediency of the present time for entertaining that discussion, because it would not be quite consistent with perfect fairness and candour, to enter at once upon the consideration of so great a variety of topics, in the absence of those who were bound to explain and defend them. He owned, however, at the same time, his wish, that his hon. and learned friend, the seconder, as well as the hon. mover of the Address, had suggested to their own minds the propriety of following themselves the advice which they had recommended to others. It was a little inconsistent that their own conduct should be an exception to their own admonition;
5857565554535251ex parte,50Mr. Brougham
60 said, he felt it impossible not to, notice some of the topics that were mentioned in the Speech from the Throne. It appeared to him that there was an almost unqualified regret, throughout the country, at the disastrous affair of Navarino—an affair which had created dismay and astonishment. Those who had agreed to the treaty were placed in a dilemma from which they could not extricate themselves; seeing that the necessary consequence of that treaty, which he considered to be impolitic and unjust, was the deplorable event to which he had alluded. There would, he knew, arrive other opportunities for arguing this point; but as it farmed so prominent a part of his majesty's Speech, and as that Speech seemed, in some manner, to countenance that transaction, he could not suffer the topic to be passed by in silence. The hon. and learned gentleman had spoken of the foreign policy which this government ought to adopt. Was it, then, British policy to interfere in the internal affairs of other states. Was it not contrary to the law of nations to do so? And had they not, by the treaty into which they had entered, violated that law? The hon. and learned gentleman maintained that this was a contest for religion and liberty. It was no such thing. The treaty was founded on a false pretence; and they were next told that the intention was to put down piracy. But, was it ne-
60Mr. Bankes
66 said, in explanation, that the noble lord had endeavoured to make it appear that he had spoken lightly of the military reputation of the duke of Wellington. Now, he asked every member, whether the words which he had used, did
66Mr. Brougham
67 said, he would take that opportunity of entering his protest against the kind of declamation in which the noble Secretary at War had indulged when speaking of the duke of Wellington. He remembered very well when that noble duke last year proposed a clause in the Corn-bill, which was considered highly injurious to the commercial interests of the country, it was said, "how can gentlemen possibly make an objection to this clause, when they consider that this very day is the 18th of June, the anniversary of the battle of Waterloo?" Now, he felt great thanks were due to the duke for having gained that battle, but, nevertheless, the clause in the Corn-bill was a very injurious one to the country; and he protested against the practice hereafter, that, whenever the duke should propose any very objectionable measure, or make any financial blunder, as a prime minister, that the House should be met with a reference to his military services. The duke of Wellington having placed himself in a civil capacity, must submit to be judged of in that capacity. It was hardly necessary for him to say, that in all that the duke of Wellington might hereafter do, his past services, if not openly referred to, would not be the less remembered. But he could not help thinking, that those very habits of command which had been most befitting the noble duke in his military station, and
67Lord John Russell
 said, he had entered the House without the slightest intention of saying a word on the present occasion, and would certainly have adhered to his resolution but for what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. For his part, he could only say, that he had no confidence in the present government: he had no confidence in the composition of the ministry, and could not give them his support. He could not address the House, for the first time since the death of the late lamented premier, without expressing his deep regret at the loss which the country had experienced. A remnant of that right hon. gentleman's friends were left, and he should have expected much from them, were it not for the connections which they had lately formed.Lord Normanby
 said, that he also was desirous, like his noble friend, of seeing, what measures the administration intended to propose before he venture4 to pronounce condemnation. He would go, further, and say, that from the introduction into it of many of his friends, whom he supported in the late administration, he had a favourable impression of the course which they intended to pursue; and he trusted he should be able to give them his support. He concurred in what had fallen from the noble lord who preceded him, in what he had said respecting the gallant admiral who had fought the battle of Navarin. But, the object of the treaty was the maintenance of peace, and a good understanding with Turkey; this action, therefore, must certainly be acknowledged to be an untoward circumstance in that point of view, and he confessed he thought it was very natural and proper that it should be spoken of in the speech from the throne, as it had been. With regard to the office of commander-in-chief, he was happy to hear that it had been resigned by the noble duke who now occupied the first office in the state. With respect to Portugal, he perfectly agreed in what had fallen from the noble lord who spoke last. Our troops were returning home, after having performed the service which they were sent on, to the advantage of Portugal and the honour of England. This country had no other course to take than that she had taken: the alternative of honour or disgrace was open to her; she had taken the path of honour, and every one must rejoice at the result.Mr. Calcraft
 gave notice, that on the 12th of February he would move for certain returns connected with the Court of Chancery, preparatory to a general motion relative to the Delays and Abuses in that Court.Mr. M. A. Taylor
494847464544 said:—I rise, Sir, for the purpose of seconding the Address. I know not whether I am expected to notice all the topics treated of in the Speech from the Throne, but I certainly do not feel it necessary at this time, point by point, to go over them. There are, indeed, some, to
494847464544Mr. Robert Grant
59 said, he hoped that the noble Secretary at War would not suffer the House to separate without giving the House some explanation with respect to the change of ministry, and the course which the new administration meant to pursue. He had hoped that the principles advocated by the great man now no more would have continued to be the principles of the government. He should like to know how these changes had been brought about, how the union of Whig and Tory had been put an end to by the appointment of the duke of Wellington, which had filled the country with astonishment. Was it in Great Britain that such difficulty could be found in forming a ministry? Could not individuals be found of sufficient talents and integrity to govern the country? Could not individuals be discovered who would agree with each other in carrying on the business of the
59Sir Joseph Yorke
61 said, he agreed with his hon. and learned friend, as far as he was informed of the circumstances, that the battle of Navarino was a necessary consequence of the treaty of London. He agreed, also, most fully, in the protest of his hon. and learned friend against those
61Lord Althorp
65646362 agreed, that it would be inexpedient to enter at present into many subjects which had been referred to in the course of the evening; but there
65646362Lord Palmerston
75 said, it was not his intention to apply himself to the topics adverted to in the Address. He rose for the purpose of asking the noble Secretary at. War— the only knight of king Arthur's round table in the field—whether it was the intention of ministers to propose a vote of thanks to sir E. Codrington? and next, whether it was their intention to lay on the table of the House the documents connected with the battle of Navarino, and
75Mr. Hobhouse
 rose to bear his testimony to the merits of sir E. Codrington. Whatever might be thought of the circumstances under which the battle of Navarino had been fought, there was but one opinion, as to the bravery, gallantry, and skill, displayed on that occasion. He did not think that the expression used in the Speech from the Throne was intended to impute any censure to those who had signed the treaty of the 6th of July. If it was intended to convey such a meaning, one of those ministers, who now formed a part of the present administration, would never have given his consent to the use of it. He was confident that sir E. Codrington had acted according to the spirit and letter of his instructions; but he could not but think that the battle of Navarino was an untoward event.Mr. Duncombe
 said, that, as it was not the intention of government to propose a vote of thanks to admiral Codrington, he now gave notice, that on the 14th of February he would himself introduce such a motion. As to precedent, there was one in point, which it was strange the present administration should have overlooked. He meant that of the vote of thanks to sir Arthur Wellesley, the present prime minister, for his share in the victory at Copenhagen—a state which we were, at the time, in friendly alliance.Mr. Hobhouse
80 said, that of all the governments he had ever seen, the present was the one which held out the least chance of a favourable consideration of the Catholic claims. A majority in the cabinet afforded no security, when he recollected of what individuals it was composed. Of the noble lord's colleagues friendly to those claims, one of them had not long ago declared that he considered the question not to be of so much importance now as he had formerly attached to it: another noble lord in the cabinet, it was understood, thought the question had better be deferred: while a third noble lord had quitted office last year, only, as it would seem, because he was afraid that too many of his colleagues would be of his own opinion. What was there to balance against this great majority The noble duke at the head of the government was decidedly adverse to any further concessions to the Catholics; and for the first time, since the days of Mr. Perceval, the leader in the House of Commons was also opposed to the Catholic claims. To these facts he could not shut his eyes; nor could he forget what that right hon. gentleman had openly stated in his place last session; namely, that he had quitted office because he could not retain it under Mr. Canning, without giving his support to an administration too friendly to the Catholic question. The right hon. gentleman's return to office was therefore, a great obstacle to the favourable adjustment of that question. That was his only objection to the right hon. gentleman's return to office. There was a report, that it was intended to grant a portion of the Catholic claims. He should be delighted to find it true. Come from whom it might, any
80Lord Normanby
81 said, that while he was ready to admit the inconvenience of going into discussions of this kind at present, he could not help observing, that so far from thinking that the battle of Navarino ought to be described as an "untoward event," he considered it in the highest degree creditable to the character of the country, and that it had raised it in the estimation of the civilized world. He had hoped, that those who had the manliness to have projected the enterprise, would have had the vigour to maintain their position. He was sorry to see them sink beneath the execution of their own conception, and die, as it were, of diffidence, after others had expressed so much satisfaction at what they had done. For his own part, he should when the proper time came, be prepared to defend the policy and the wisdom of every measure connected with
81Sir F. Burdett
8382 deprecated discussion at that moment upon questions which must hereafter be debated in a regular form. He would only make a passing allusion to the omission of Ireland in the Speech from the Throne. If he could believe by this omission, that the new government intended to cast aside the consideration of the state of Ireland, he could assure his hon. friend, that he had taken his seat next him, and called for an inquiry into the state of that country. Surely when his hon. friend knew that the government of Ireland was intrusted to such hands as had been alluded to, he could not doubt the desire of the administration to do justice to his country. When the government had only been in office a few days, it was too much to expect that they should be prepared with all those details; unless, indeed, it could be shown, that their predecessors in office had left them matured in their bureaus ready for use. He could not see the necessity for introducing Ireland in the Speech from the Throne, unless circumstances of a peculiar nature demanded a notice of that kind. It had been done when the state of that, country required measures of special rigour; but, happily, such was not now the case. Besides, when it was borne in mind, that the government of that country was confided
8382Mr. V. Fitzgerald
l rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "to exclude the borough of Penryn from sending members to serve in parliament, and to enable the town of Manchester, with certain townships adjoining, to send two burgesses to serve in parliament." It was his intention, hi the proper stage of the bill, to move that the franchise be granted to occupiers of houses assessed at 20lLord John Russell
 thought, that evidence should be produced to show clearly that the elective franchise ought to be taken from the burgesses. Last session it was considered, that the evidence produced was not sufficient to substantiate a charge of bribery.Mr. Fergusson
 agreed, generally, with what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had spoken last; but he would go a point further, and would say, that he did not see the justice of disfranchising a borough, merely because it could be proved that some forty or fifty of the voters had given their votes with an expectation of being-bribed for so doing. The members who had been returned had been acquitted of bribery, and that was a material point.Mr. Batley
 was willing to give any time that might be deemed necessary for the defence of the burgesses. He, however, would not only not bring forward any fresh evidence, but would oppose any motion for that purpose. The former decision of the House was, he conceived, sufficient.Lord J. Russell
 expressed his approbation of the conduct of the gallant admiral in the battle of Navarino, and lamented that government did not intend to originate a vote of thanks to him, for his skill and valour on that occasion.Lord Euston
73727170 said, that, previous to the report being read, he wished to express the feelings which influenced his conduct on the present occasion. Fie should support the Address, subject to the explanation which had been offered by the noble Secretary at War, regarding the objectionable portion of the King's Speech —an explanation, without which he would not consent to the Address, and unaccompanied by which the Speech from the throne would be received, throughout the
73727170Mr. Brownlow
 brought up the report of the Address on the King's Speech.Mr. Jenkinson
84 rose for the purpose of re-introducing a bill which the House had adopted, and read a second time, at the close of the last session, for disfranchising the borough of East Retford, and giving representation to Birmingham. He was aware that some gentlemen thought evidence should be produced at the bar, in addition to that taken before the Retford Election committee, on which the House had proceeded last year. He knew also, that other gentlemen entertained different views from himself, as to the destination of the franchise, if it should be removed from East Retford. He had
84Mr. Tennyson
 replied. He assured his hon. friend (Mr. G. Bankes) of his anxiety to bring the subject under consideration to an early conclusion; not only on account of the important interests involved, but of the desire which he felt, in common with every gentleman who had the conduct of a public bill, to be speedily relieved from his labours. He would not then enter upon any reply to the numerous observations of his hon. friend, as a more fit opportunity would occur for the discussions to which they would lead, but, in consequence of what had fallen from both the hon. members who had spoken, he felt it right to remind the House, that the ground on which the House allowed him to proceed with this bill in the last session was—not any specific bribery at the last election for East Retford—but the systematic corruption which had prevailed there for a series of elections past, and as far back as the memory of man extended, which rendered the electors totally unfit to be further trusted with the franchise. Of this corruption he repeated, that, if the House was not satisfied already, he was prepared with proofs so ample and conclusive, that he expected its unanimous concurrence with regard to the disfranchisement of East Retford.Mr. Tennyson
8685 said, that the circumstances of this case were of a very peculiar nature. The committee which sat to consider the merits of the election for East Retford commenced their labours in the month of May last, and terminated them at the end of that month; and, by virtue of the power of suspending the writ, which the House possessed, that borough had since remained unrepresented. It was acknowledged that the Writ was suspended; that the gentlemen who had set up for the borough were unseated, writ for bribery, but for treating; which was a very inferior offence. Now, if that were, the only offence against those who seated them, and, if no charge of bribery were substantiated against those gentlemen, it was clear that there could have been no suspension of the writ. But the committee made a special report with respect to bribery having been committed on former occasions, and also with reference to its having been expected on this, by those who concurred in electing the then members. No bribery was either brought home to the members or to the electors. The members were, however, unseated by the suspension of the writ, and the consequence was, that there was no person in the House connected with the borough, or interested in investigating the business. He knew how inefficient an advocate he should prove, if he offered to take up the cause
8685Mr. George Bankes
 perfectly agreed that the battle of Navarino was an "untoward event." He considered it a most unfortunate event for this country. He did not deny the talent and skill with which the gallant admiral had fought the battle; but he did question the policy of the instructions under which he had acted. Unless he heard a satisfactory explanation of the grounds of the treaty, it should never have his support. He trusted that tranquillity would be restored with the Porte. The consequences would otherwise be serious. Look at the situation in which we had placed our old ally. Look at the situation in which we had placed Russia and France. View the long-continued policy of the Russian government; and then let the country judge whether the battle of Navarino was not an "untoward event." He was satisfied that this was the general opinion. He was in London when the news of the battle arrived, and he had heard the most anxious fears expressed as to the probable consequences. God grant they might not happen! Was there a man in his majesty's government who did not shudder with horror when the news reached him? In no point of view could he approve of the treaty, or of its results.Mr. M. A. Taylor
76 wished to put a question to the noble Secretary at War. He thought the omission of all mention of Ireland was a proof that ministers were blind to the condition of that country, unless their silence might be explained by motives not now before the House. Three years had elapsed since a message was brought down from the Throne, calling the attention of parliament to the existence of an association in Ireland, said to be pregnant with danger to the constitution, and to the connection between the two countries. The measure introduced as a remedy, had met with the most decided opposition, but, at the same time, with the most anxious attention. In a single se'nnight, it was discussed for five successive nights. That bill expired in the present session, and he wished to know whether it was the intention of government to propose its renewal? From the absence of all notice of the subject, he inferred that it was not their intention; and although he could not applaud their consistency, he could highly praise their wisdom. It might be in the recollection of gentlemen, that on the occasion of the intro-
76Mr. Spring Rice
 hoped the noble lord would give sufficient time, before the second reading, to have the subject thoroughly examined.Mr. Manning
 bore testimony to the great merits of sir Edward Codrington. He said, it could not but be matter of congratulation with the friends of that gallant officer, that it was unanimously agreed that he had acted with zeal for the honour of his country, and that whatever differences of opinion might exist as to the policy of the measure, all were ready to bear testimony to his exalted merits. Differences of opinion certainly existed as to the political part of the transaction; but by none was sir E. Codrington's conduct impugned. He regretted the language which had been employed by ministers in speaking of the battle of Navarino, and was glad to have heard the explanation of the noble Secretary at War.Sir G. Warrender
79 said, he did not find fault with the use of the term "untoward" in the king's Speech; especially after the explanation which had been given. He thought the government were justified in their application of the term. He would not, at that moment, question the policy which had led to the battle of Navarino: the time would arrive when the principle of the treaty of London must be discussed. If it were approved of, then they ought to do the admiral justice who had enforced it. He was most anxious to have the whole conduct of that gallant officer inquired into. There was a great dictinction to be drawn between not censuring an officer and praising him. Caution with respect to the latter, might be justifiable until the treaty should be dis-
79Sir M. W. Ridley
74 said, he perfectly agreed in the sentiments expressed with regard to
74Lord Morpeth
7877 said, that before he answered the questions which had been put to him, he hoped the House would allow him to explain the meaning of a certain term in the Speech from the Throne which was still misunderstood. Nobody would be more sorry than he should, to be understood as meaning to say, that blame was imputable to the gallant admiral whose name had been so often alluded to. What he meant to have said, was, that the epithet "untoward event" was not intended to imply the slightest censure on that gallant officer. That epithet had been employed, because the collision between the fleets was unexpected. Whatever merit attached to the military movement itself, there could be no doubt that such a conflict must have had a tendency to interrupt the negotiations which were pending, to produce an alteration in the civil disposition of the Porte, and oppose considerable obstacles to the adjustment of the differences which were under discussion. It was impossible, he thought, to deny, that, in that sense of the word, the battle of Navasino was an "untoward event." But, as far as it related to the character of the country, and to the fame of its arms, no human being could suppose that the epithet "untoward" was applied in that sense. In no fair construction of the passage did it imply any censure on the gallant admiral who commanded on that day.
7877Lord Palmerston
 presented, by command, the following Protocol and Treaty—Lord Palmerston
 trusted, that when the estimates were brought forward, they would evince a due attention to economy in every department of the state. It would be impossible for the finance committee to make any report until a late period of the session. In the mean time, he would urge upon government the adoption of as severe a system of economy as if that report was before the House.Mr. Maberly
96 said, he rose to bring in a bill "to enable clergymen and their parishioners to commute for Corn-Rents the Tithes within their respective parishes." The hon. member dwelt upon the beneficial effects which would flow from such a measure. The principle upon which the bill was founded was not a novel one. It had frequently been applied in the instances of private bills; and he wished to extend
96Mr. Green
 wished to know, whether any steps had been taken towards the appointment of the Finance Committee, and whether the noble lord could state the names of its intended members.Mr. E. D. Davenport
 supposed that as the new administration had not had time to prepare fresh estimates, they would bring forward those which the late ministry had left behind them. If that was the case, he had no doubt, that a due attention would be paid to economy and retrenchment. He understood it to be merely the noble lord's intention to propose on Monday to render available certain funds, to do which the authority of the House was necessary.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that with regard to any balance which might remain in the Treasury from last year, he had no objection that government should bring it forward to meet the current expenses.Mr. Hume
 asked, whether it was the intention of the noble lord to call upon the House to vote any of the supplies for the current year before, the chancellor of the Exchequer had taken his seat?Mr. Hume
 said, it was his intention to move only for certain supplies out of funds, which were not strictly available without the authority of the House. His object was to prevent the obstruction of the public service from the want of those funds.Lord Palmerston
 gave notice, that on Monday he would move, that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of Supply.Lord Palmerston
 said, that the hon. member had correctly stated the object of his motion.Lord Palmerston
 said, it was impossible for him to anticipate the names of the members, whom the House, in its wisdom, would nominate upon the committee.Lord Palmerston
99***mens divinior98 said, that as it was one of the most important rights which a member of that House possessed, to deliver his opinions on such an occasion as the present, he trusted that no apology was necessary, when he stood up to express, in as few words as possible, his sentiments on the situation in which the government was placed, and to declare the grounds on which alone he could give it is humble support. If any such apology were necessary, it was, he conceived, to be found in the fact, that in the last twelve months the country had seen various important changes in the ministry: that during that period there had been no fewer than four different prime ministers. Twelve months had not gone over their heads since the great struggle took place between Mr. Canning and the powerful party by whom he was opposed, and who, though then defeated, had again gained the ascendancy. Many of those who stood by Mr. Canning in that time of trial had ceased to have any connexion with the ministry: a few of them still remained in authority, For himself, he could truly say, that no man was a more ardent admirer, no man a more cordial supporter, of Mr. Canning. It was true that that great man was no more: they no longer had the benefit of his experience and his talents; but it was to be
99***mens divinior98Mr. Liddell
 hoped that, before any money was asked for on account of the supply, the whole of the estimates for the year would be laid before the House. Nothing could be more disadvantageous than the practice of calling for money, and obtaining it, by dribblets, while the House was in ignorance of what the extent of the demand would be. He should certainly oppose any grant, until all the charges for the year were on the table.Mr. Hume
 said, that the estimates for the more considerable sources of expense, the army, navy, and ordnance, would be upon the table before any vote was proposed; but some of the less important accounts, it was impossible to have ready until a later period in the session.Lord Palmerston
 saw nothing impossible in the case, and thought it absolutely necessary that the miscellaneous estimates should be produced before any money was voted. These last accounts generally amounted to two or three millions. If ever there was a time when it was necessary to adopt a clear mode of proceeding with regard to the finances, the present was that moment.Mr. Hume
 said, that the miscellaneous estimates had, of late years, arisen to an alarming height. He therefore hoped, that as the country had got a new ministry, every facility would be afforded the House for watching the progress of these expenses. He would oppose every grant, until the whole of the estimates for the year should be known.Mr. Maberly
 said, that the army, navy, and ordnance estimates, being founded upon the cost of existing establishments, were capable of being furnished early. The miscellaneous estimates, as there was more information necessary to calculate them, could not be produced so soon in the session.Lord Palmerston
101 hoped that the House would vote no money until the whole of the estimates were before them. It was now necessary to look to the expenditure, not only of every million, but of every shilling of the public money. He pressed this point the more, because he understood that large expenses had been recently incurred for which there was no sufficient warrant. He alluded to the
101Sir. J. Sebright
 said, he was satisfied, that there was no disposition to withhold from the House any estimates; and that the whole would be furnished with all possible expedition.Mr. G. Dawson
102 expressed his satisfaction at the assurances thus given. A new administration was now commencing its operations, and it could not do any thing that would be more satisfactory to the public, than by promoting inquiry into these subjects. He had not risen with any feeling of enmity towards the present administration. It had never been his practice to enter the ranks of opposition to a government; and, on the other hand, he had never ranged himself as a supporter of any, except that of the late Mr. Canning. Then, indeed, he had thought it his duty to support, as far as he could, an administration which he considered likely to be so beneficial to the country. But it did not follow that the new administration should find an opponent in him. Many persons objected to the duke of Wellington as rime minister. So for as that appointment went it had his warmest approbation. One of the objections urged against the noble duke's fitness for that office was, that he had passed a great portion of his life in military service. So far from looking upon that as a disqualifying circumstance, he was of opinion that the noble duke could not have been brought up in a better school. He had always had great objects before him to decide upon, and great interests to consider; and those habits of command would qualify him better for the leader of an administration, than a mere acquaintance with the routine of office. In the noble duke the country would at least find habits of decision; which was a point of first-rate consideration in the character of every minister; and he (sir J. Sebright) doubted not, that
102Sir J. Sebright
 said, that the repairs of Windsor Castle had undoubtedly exceeded the estimate; but that excess had not arisen out of change, in the original plan, but from the state of the general building; which had been found in a condition which could not be foreseen when the estimate was framed. He believed it would be fully proved, that no blame rested upon the commissioners, or upon the architect.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, it was so much the object of the hon. member for Aberdeen to object to a supply being granted as to have the means of squaring the general expenditure of the country with its income. No doubt it was necessary to support the army and the navy; and there were some extras which it was equally necessary to support; but he hoped the new government would set to work, and take care, while they supported what was right, to lop off what was superfluous and extravagant. He could not agree with the hon. baronet, who was so pleased that they had got a military man to reign over them. He had rather it had been some one else. It was quite a choaker to him. He had no doubt as to the noble duke's decision of character, and that he would be able to keep the cabinet in good order [a laugh]; and he wished his noble relation had had a little of the same sort of spunk. Still he did not feel the military school the best school for a statesman. Nevertheless, if the noble duke laid by his habits of the sword a little he might make a good and a popular minister. As for his not being in the habit of making long speeches, he considered that circumstance a particularly fortunate one; two thirds of that which was called eloquence only tended to blink the question at issue.Sir Joseph Yorke
107s thought, that, if there was any case in which economical considerations should be disregarded, it was that which involved in its execution an act of positive cruelty and injustice. The House was not only called upon to grant the boon required upon every principle of justice, but in accordance with a principle recognized by a previous act of parliament. They were not now called upon to grant a relief which ought not be withheld; but they were required to carry into effect a measure of relief, the necessity of which has been admitted, and sanctioned by act of parliament. The hon. member for Sussex had said, that those who advised this measure had not looked into the case of the sufferers, and asserted that the act gave relief in every case where the Land-tax exceeded 4107sMr. Baring
 said, he had a motion to submit to the House, through which he hoped to be able to throw some light upon the conduct of the Board of Works. When the office of surveyor-general was first instituted, it was held by sir W. Chambers, but the surveyor-general not being in these times a professional man, he could not exercise that control over the expenditure of his office, which it was the intention of parliament to ensure. Very large sums were lavished upon works the most tasteless and the most inconveniently contrived, that it was possible to imagine, while there seemed to be no other control over the actions of the architect than his own whim or caprice. There were, in fact, three architects whose power in their respective governments was as absolute as that of any Roman praetor in his province. So jealous were these gentlemen of their authority, that for one architect to pass the brook or rivulet which separated his province from that of another, was an infringement upon the rights and an insult to the dignity, of his brother architect, whose province he thus invaded. The government, therefore, instead of having, as was intended, three architects, of whose united abilities they could avail themselves, were limited to one, who never consulted his supposed coadjutors, and who was perfectly absolute in his own district. The consequence was, that gentlemen saw many fine and expensive buildings, but not one, either well adapted to the purpose for which it was intended, or calculated to reflect credit upon the national taste. In order, if possible, to ascertain the reason of this failure, he begged leave to move for "an account of the Salary and Commission granted to each of the three Architects attached to the Office of Works, under Statute of 54 Geo. 3, c. 157, and of the amount of the same, since the appointment of each of them; and also, of any payments or allowances made to each of them during that period, in respect of any of the Royal Palaces, or other public Buildings."Mr. Bankes
109 did not intend to cast the slightest blame upon the surveyor-general, who was a highly honourable man. The truth
109Mr. Bankes
 said, there had been a manifest disposition on the part of the legislature to relieve the Catholics from this double assessment. The manner in which a similar measure was suffered to pass last session, was extremely indecorous. The House was not aware of the extent of the sacrifice which this bill required. If, as he believed, relief was to be had under the act at present existing, and without any sacrifice of revenue, he saw no reason why they should assent to the proposed bill.Mr. Curteis
105ss104s103 said, that he rose to ask leave to bring in a bill, to which he could anticipate no objection. The question had been, brought before the legislature thirty years ago, with the intention of remedying the defect to which his motion now had reference. Last session he had had the honour of introducing a similar bill to the
105ss104s103Mr. George Bankes
 said, that although he opposed what was called Catholic emancipation, yet none of the reasons which influenced him upon that question, had any bearing upon the present. As the justice of the proposed measure appeared to be generally admitted, it would not be necessary for him to say any thing about it; although he thought that the injustice of the present system had been overrated. That injustice could operate only in a few instances. He believed that, by appealing to the commissioners, relief might be obtained; but only by throwing the surcharge upon the Protestants. This operation was doubtless very complicated, from the many statutes upon the subject, and from the Land-tax, in the time of Mr. Pitt, having been made redeemable. The principal sufferer was, undoubtedly, sir R. Beddingfield. On his estate there was a parish where the act might be brought into operation; but, unfortunately, he was the owner of the whole parish, and all the inhabitants were Roman Catholics; so that there could be no apportionment through which relief might reach them. He could see no remedy for the grievance, but an act which would at once relieve the Catholics, burthening the Protestants of the same district. The loss to the revenue, he trusted, would be trifling; but it would be only an act of justice.Mr. G. Dawson
97, in presenting a petition from the Unitarian congregation assembling in the New Gravel-pit Meeting House at Hackney, praying for the repeal of these acts, said, he was bound to observe that it was signed by individuals of talent, wealth, and moral excellence, inferior to no class of the community. There was one point connected with the numerous classes of persons, of whom the petitioners formed a branch, on which he was anxious to say a few words. It had been stated in the newspapers and elsewhere, that the Dissenters had coalesced with the Catholics, for the purpose of obtaining, in conjunction, the removal of their mutual disabilities. Now, he was authorised positively to state, that they had done no such thing. A united committee had been appointed by the Dissenters, to whom was intrusted the management of the application to parliament for a repeal of the Corporation and Test Acts. That committee, which, he could say, without fear of contradic-
97Mr. John Smith
 said, that the late chancellor of the Exchequer, lord Goderich, had rendered himself responsible for the good taste of all public buildings in future. On him the blame ought to fall, and not upon the surveyor-general, or the architects.Mr. Hume
106l, in seconding the motion, said, he had heard that the payments of the family of only one Catholic gentleman, sir Richard Beddingfield, had amounted, under this double assessment, to 50,000106lMr. Hume
 said, he had acted in the capacity of a commissioner, and had been enabled to relieve some families who had been assessed for the double tax from the time of king William. Great difficulties at first occurred in throwing the sum upon any other property; but after a laborious investigation, the commissioners discovered lands which had never been taxed at all; and upon them they imposed the burthen from which they relieved those who sought relief under the act. But he apprehended that great difficulties must attend such, experiments elsewhere; and as the whole amount of this double tax was small, he apprehended there could be no objection to grant the relief proposed by the bill.Mr. Hurst
"I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. The assurances of your cordial co-operation, in advancing the welfare and prosperity of my People, are highly satisfactory to me. You may rely upon my unwearied endeavours to maintain the national interests and honour, and to preserve to this country and the world, the inestimable blessings of peace." presented the King's Answer to the Address of Thanks as follows:—
"I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. The assurances of your cordial co-operation, in advancing the welfare and prosperity of my People, are highly satisfactory to me. You may rely upon my unwearied endeavours to maintain the national interests and honour, and to preserve to this country and the world, the inestimable blessings of peace."Lord Palmerston
111 presented a similar petition from the Roman Catholics of Newton Barry. He said, that his constituents, and the Catholics at large, deeply deplored the change that had taken place in his; majesty's councils. He begged leave in at few words to explain what his feelings were with respect to the present ministry. Some there were who thought a ministry ought to be supported, if they enabled the
111Mr. H. V. Stuart
110 said, he rose to present several petitions in favour of Catholic Emancipation, to which he wished to draw the particular attention of the House. The petitioners complained that they were, in violation of the Treaty of Limerick loaded with civil disabilities; and they contended for the right to follow the dictates of their consciences, in matters of a religious nature, without thereby incurring any disqualification whatever. In reference to this subject, he begged leave to state, that he, in common with many others, felt considerable surprise and disappointment, in consequence of no notice having been taken in his majesty's Speech of the situation of Ireland, or of those feelings on religious subjects, which not only agitated that country, but had obtained ground in England. It was said by the noble lord opposite, that the omission was of no consequence, as nothing had occurred in Ireland since the last session that called for any mention of that country. But he would state that this was not the fact; for matters of the deepest importance to the welfare and happiness of Ireland had occurred since that period. What could be a more important feature in the history of Ireland than that with one accord, and from one extremity of the island to another, millions of people had assembled on the same day, and at the same hour, for the purpose of respectfully petitioning the legislature for justice? This, it must be admitted, was a most important event: it showed the fixed determination of one portion of our empire to press their claims on the attention of the legislature. If this were a time of war—if this country were threatened with invasion—would not the legislation attend to this call? And, would they now slumber on their posts? Would they now allow ministers to satisfy
110Mr. A. Dawson
112 wished, when any gentleman representing a borough or a county in Ireland rose to present a petition on this subject, that he would enable him to collect, if possible, what he had never yet been able to do with reference to the Catholic question. After describing, with an eloquence peculiarly their own, the distressed situation of their country, those gentlemen always came to this conclusion, that there was no other mode of shedding light on that benighted country, that there was no other way of restoring tranquillity to seven or eight millions of people, except by granting Catholic emancipation. If it were proved that such was really the
112Mr. D. W. Harvey
113 said, he had heretofore cautiously abstained from any discussion on this question, and he should not have been induced to take a part in it now, if it had not been for the extravagant misrepresentation of argument and of reasoning, in the speech of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. If the Irish members could at all participate in the opinions of that hon. gentleman, they would forfeit all claim to the respect of that House. He would not, however, adopt the hon. member's representation of his (Mr. Rice's) feelings and his arguments; and he was sure there was not one of the representatives of Ireland who would not disclaim that representation, if it were necessary. The members for Ireland could speak for themselves; and if they wanted a mouth-piece, they certainly would not select the hon. member for Colchester. There was one point on which he wished to touch, which was not important as proceeding from the hon. member, but which did derive importance from its having been adopted by other individuals. The hon. member said, that if it could be proved to him, that the physical evils which afflicted the people of Ireland would be removed by granting Catholic emancipation, he would be willing to join with the friends of that question,
113Mr. Spring Rice
 presented a petition of the same nature from the Roman Catholics of Dungarvon. When he last presented a petition on this subject from his constituents, he had expressed a hope that that would be the last time that they would find it necessary to come forward with a similar petition. But he could not now cherish any such expectations; seeing that, since that time, an event had occurred which presented a bulwark against the claims of the Roman Catholics; namely, the appointment of a prime minister who was decidedly hostile to their demands. It was, however, gratifying to him to observe, that the Catholics had never removed their eyes from the great object which they had held so long in view: it was pleasing to contemplate the fact, that they had not slackened their zeal in endeavouring to attain their just rights; and he hoped they would continue to pursue the same course, until they secured those rights which belonged to them, as citizens and subjects of a free state.Mr. G. Lamb
116115 King, in rising to present a petition from the Roman Catholics of a parish in the county of Sligo, said:—Although I differ totally from the petitioners as to their prayer, which is for the removal of; the civil disabilities imposed on them, I feel it to be my duty to state that the petition is properly worded and respectably signed. In moving that it be brought up, as I am one of those members who have been denounced by an illegal association, acting in the name of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, as an enemy to my country, because we give our support to the present government, I am desirous most clearly to state, that I will never be intimidated by any menace from any body of men belonging to any party, from following the line of duty my conscience may point out to me. In the present head of the government I place the utmost confidence. I am convinced the noble duke will be as tenacious of the rights and liberties of his country in the cabinet, as he was of its safety and honour in the field. I feel a degree of pride in recollecting that I was a witness of his exertions in that theatre of glory. It is with gratification I refer to the brilliant period when I was serving under him, and saw with admiration, the zeal and ability which he displayed. I feel convinced that, in the situation in which he is now placed, he will show an equal degree of attention to all the duties which, in peace and tranquillity, are required from him, as the first minister of the country, as he did in carrying into effect the energetic measures by which he insured its safety and independence. I cannot accede to the opinion I have heard stated in this House, that, the distress which exists in Ireland ought to be attributed to the exclusion of the Catholics from political power. I think that to very different causes it should be assigned. It is absurd to suppose that the violation of the Treaty of Limerick, admitting all that the petitioners say on this head to be correct, could have any effect, at the end of a hundred and forty years, in producing the aggravated distresses which afflict that country. Nor do I believe that the admission of the Catholics to political power would have the least tendency to ameliorate the condition of the Irish, or ad-
116115Major-general
 presented a similar petition from Clapham. One third of the subscribers thereto were, he said, members of the church of England, and amongst them was a clergyman of that church. The hon. member for Norwich had stated, that the Dissenters were unwilling to make common cause with the Catholics. Whether they were right or wrong in so doing, he would not give an opinion; but he was quite sure that the whole kingdom ought to unite hand and heart, in endeavouring to obtain a repeal of the Test and Corporation acts, and of all penal restrictions upon religious liberty. There could be neither tranquillity in Ireland nor safety to England until the point was carried; and he entirely agreed with the hon. member who had said, that the House should grant it while it would be received as a boon, instead of waiting until it should be extorted from them in a moment of danger.Mr. Denison
124 said, he had been hitherto silent on the question of Catholic emancipation, and would not now have addressed the House had not a scene been exhibited, which, though he had not much experience as a member of that House, he believed to be rare in the discussion of any question. The House had heard the gallant officer, in presenting the petition, repel the attacks which he conceived directed against him by the Catholic Asso-
124Mr. Fergusson
llllll127126 said, that he had, last, session, submitted to the House several motions on the subject of the Law of Arrest. In consequence of the magnitude of the evil which arose to individuals by their being deprived of their liberty for debt, he had then submitted two bills, for the purpose of doing away with arrest altogether, and giving to the creditor a claim on the property of the debtor. He had not founded those bills on any vague or theoretical idea, as had been insinuated, but on the custom and practice that had existed for centuries in Scotland and in other countries; where, so far from any danger or inconvenience having arisen from such a course, it had been found to produce a most beneficial effect. The result had proved, that there was much more of debt recovered in Scotland than in England, from those who were insolvent: he believed
llllll127126Mr. Hume
Erin.—" Nos sævior armis
" Pauperies urget miseramque ulciscitur." Erin.118117 expressed his regret, that the command of the army and the situation of First Lord of the Treasury should be united in the same individual. He could not very well imagine how the duke of Wellington could wean himself from his long-acquired military habits and avocations. He did not think that a military life was the best school for rearing up a constitutional minister. What was, or ought to be, the attributes of a constitutional minister? He ought to have a deep
Erin.—" Nos sævior armis
" Pauperies urget miseramque ulciscitur." Erin.118117Mr. Leycester
120 said, that his gallant friend who had introduced the petition, had stated, in a plain and manly manner, the reason why he dissented from the prayer of it. The House ought to thank him for the course which he had taken, especially as he was one of the persons denounced by a self-elected and unconstitutional body. That body had gone to such a length as had never been pursued by any other set of persons. The Catholic Association had assumed, contrary to law, all the power and authority of a legislative body. It not only commanded the population of every parish in Ireland, but it also commanded the pockets of that population. The Association had long been in the habit of receiving a weekly sum, called "the Rent." For what that money was collected, and who had the authority of disposing of it, did not clearly appear. But the time, he believed, was not far distant, when those sums of money would be appropriated in a way which that House and the country would not readily submit to. Those who supported the claims of the Catholics in that House, if they had any love for consistency, and for the constitution, ought to take their stand now, and declare, that until this illegal body was put down, and prevented from bullying the empire, they would not press the
120Sir T. Lethbridge
123122121 observed, that the hon. member for Somersetshire was undoubtedly one of the most downright, straightforward opponents of Catholic emancipation; so much so, that he would consider the hon. baronet as the embodied spirit of the whole
123122121Mr. Spring Rice
125 presented a petition from the Roman Catholic inhabitants of Kilmain, praying for Catholic Emancipation. He begged to embrace that opportunity of disclaiming, on the part of the Dissenters of England, any junction with the Roman Catholics of Ireland; and, at the same time, distinctly to disavow any hostility, on their part, to the claims of the latter. An incautious and unauthorized paragraph had found its way into the newspapers, which had created the supposition now contradicted by him. For himself, he had voted in favour of that question on every occasion; and he should continue to do so. But with respect to the Dissenters, their case had been under consideration, and they had been advised by their friends to stand on a different ground from the Catholics. The position in which the two parties were placed was, in fact,
125Mr. W. Smith
 said, he was desirous of taking that opportunity of making a few observations. He would, in the first place, state, that he was as much opposed to the measure of Catholic emancipation, as ever. Nay, his opposition was strengthened by all that he had lately witnessed. He alluded particularly to the declaration of the Catholic Association, that every member of parliament Should be considered an enemy to Ireland who supported the present administration. He agreed with the hon. member for Colchester, that emancipation, as it was called, would not tend to the establishment of tranquillity in Ireland. Let the population have employment, and that would have a tendency to fill their pockets and make them satisfied. He was at a loss to divine why all these petitions were presented at this time. He could only account for it by supposing, either that since last session some new circumstances of importance had occurred in Ireland, or that those who advocated the cause of the Catholics derived their principles from the position of the seats they possessed. Last year, after they had obtained office, they made no effort for the Catholics. Now they were out of office, they were beyond measure anxious for the immediate success of the measure. With regard to the present administration, he was glad that the duke of Wellington was at the head of it, and he would give it his utmost support, thoroughly believing that it would uphold the best interests of the country.Sir John Brydges
119 said, that as the gallant general had gone through, and commented upon, the whole of the petition, he deemed it necessary to offer a few words. He did not quarrel with the panegyric which the gallant general had pronounced on the duke of Wellington: he himself admired, as much as any man, the great military talents of that distinguished personage. But he would ask, did the duke of Wellington's naval renown entitle him to general confidence as a civil minister? Military and political abilities were distinct things, and were very seldom united. An hon. baronet had asked, whether any thing had occurred since last year to make this show of petitions necessary? The fact was, that they grew out of the circumstance of that House not having done that act of justice, without which they would constantly be receiving petitions from Ireland. And God forbid that it should be otherwise! for if the people did not, by petitioning, show that they had confidence in that House, it would be the most fatal day that was ever known for
119Sir J. Newport
258l said, he should be sorry to be understood as wishing to cast any reflections upon the Privy Council. Of the distinguished persons who attended there as professional judges, he was bound to speak in terms of the highest respect; and of the present Master of the Rolls, in particular, he would say, that there never was a man more anxious to do his duty with despatch. So it was before his time; for he had no objection to make against lord Gifford, or sir John Copley; and still less to sir William Grant, one of the greatest judges that this country ever produced. But the difficulty, known only to professional men, was, that you could not get judges and counsel together more than about eight or nine times a year. The Privy Council had no bar of its own. However numerous the appeals might be, they were obliged to await the convenience of the few who practised in the court. Of these, about four attended from the court of Chancery, and the same number from the King's-bench; but when those courts sat, these gentlemen could not attend. There was scarcely any thing done before the Privy Council, except upon holydays, such as the 30th of January, the Purification, or a few such days. Surely this was a state of things which ought not to continue. These appeal causes were of the greatest importance, few of them involving property under from 50 to 60,000258lMr. Brougham
247246***14. An Act to allow Witnesses to be sworn for prisoners.13. Acts for settling County Judicatures, Guardians of Orphans, Courts of Appeal, County Treasurers, and Workhouses, with Tables of Fees and Short Forms of declaration.24512. An Act for all County Registers, Will, and Administrators; and for preventing Inconvenience, Delay, Charge, and Irregularity, in Chancery and Com-
24511. To prevent solicitation of Judges, Bribery, Extortion, Charge of Motions, and for restriction of Pleaders.10. To make Debts assignable.9. For the recovery of Debts owing by Corporations.8. Against the Sale of Offices.7. For the further declaration and prevention of Fraudulent Contracts and Conveyances.6. For the more speedy and easy recovery of Debts and Damages not exceeding the sum of Four Pounds.5. For the better regulating of Pleaders and their Fees.4. For the more speedy recovery of Rents.3. For ascertaining of Arbitrary Fines upon Descent and Alienation of Copyholds of Inheritance.2. For taking away Common Recoveries, and the unnecessary Charges of Fines, and to pass and charge Lands entailed as Lands in Fee-simple.1. For taking away Fines upon Bills, Declarations, and Original Writs.
14. An Act to allow Witnesses to be sworn for prisoners.13. Acts for settling County Judicatures, Guardians of Orphans, Courts of Appeal, County Treasurers, and Workhouses, with Tables of Fees and Short Forms of declaration.24512. An Act for all County Registers, Will, and Administrators; and for preventing Inconvenience, Delay, Charge, and Irregularity, in Chancery and Com-
24511. To prevent solicitation of Judges, Bribery, Extortion, Charge of Motions, and for restriction of Pleaders.10. To make Debts assignable.9. For the recovery of Debts owing by Corporations.8. Against the Sale of Offices.7. For the further declaration and prevention of Fraudulent Contracts and Conveyances.6. For the more speedy and easy recovery of Debts and Damages not exceeding the sum of Four Pounds.5. For the better regulating of Pleaders and their Fees.4. For the more speedy recovery of Rents.3. For ascertaining of Arbitrary Fines upon Descent and Alienation of Copyholds of Inheritance.2. For taking away Common Recoveries, and the unnecessary Charges of Fines, and to pass and charge Lands entailed as Lands in Fee-simple.1. For taking away Fines upon Bills, Declarations, and Original Writs.244† There is certainly a notion of Mr. Justice Doddridge being the author of this excellent book, or at least standing in the same relation to it as that C. B. Gilbert does to Bacon's Ab.; for the works cited in it make it impossible he should have written it all.**stabilit usum qui tollit abusum*243242***241llllllllllll240239capias ad respondendum*capias ad respondendum**238237236235234233Nisi PriusNisi Prius232231nullum tempus230229de WilletSpencely*de WilletSpencely**228vivâ voce227e. gnotv*e. gnotv*vice versâ*226v† Goodtitle v***225BlakePerrinvice versâ224223222221220alio intuitu219**vll*218217llv216215214213212in propria persona211llllsl210an undefended actionslslslNisi Priusin banco209non constatsolvit ad diem*non constatsolvit ad diem*Solvit post diem—*Solvit ante diem*Solvit ad diem—Non est factum—208lll207206205indebitatus assumpsit204solvit post diemsolvit ad diemnon est factum203***wholepervadesparental solicituderestoreanxiety to maintainclearly statingand exactly answered202¶ E. G. His giving as an example of assumpsit, an undertaking without consideration.§ Lord R. 393.‡ 2 Camp. 631.† Sir W. Jones, 240.**pointedlyevery complaint be accurately and precisely ascertained in writingwithout giving him previous noticecare and circumspection*non assumpsitindebitatus assumpsit201200quare clausum fregit199***198197special196pleadinglmeditatione fugœ195del credere194193***Cour de Conciliation192Nisi Prius191***190189188187chronic cases186far too remarkable to have been inserted:—"By this means a statute made upon great consideration, introduced in a solemn and pompous manner, by this strict construction has had no other effect than to add at most three words to a conveyance."—I Atk. 591. The remark nearly in the same words is adopted by Blackstone, who cites lord Hardwicke in confirmation of it.—2 Com. 336.the use of185v*v**184183B, A.TayleureDoeB. A.Clarke,DoeCom*B, A.TayleureDoeB. A.Clarke,DoeCom**182181detinue180quia timet179178certiorari177176175petition de droitfiatlatitat174fiatfiatmonstrans de droitpetition de droit173Pays de Coutûmefree bench172171170169168167fera naturehostis humani generiscaput lupinum166l165164tertium quid163162161160159158157156155154153ll152151Nisi Prius150149moon148147146145144143142***141Tempus novatur rerum140139138fromuponPossunt quia posse videntur."137136135134† Ibid.**Triccum in lege*ac etiams133132131130129128*** rose, and addressed the House as follows: 247246***14. An Act to allow Witnesses to be sworn for prisoners.13. Acts for settling County Judicatures, Guardians of Orphans, Courts of Appeal, County Treasurers, and Workhouses, with Tables of Fees and Short Forms of declaration.24512. An Act for all County Registers, Will, and Administrators; and for preventing Inconvenience, Delay, Charge, and Irregularity, in Chancery and Com-
24511. To prevent solicitation of Judges, Bribery, Extortion, Charge of Motions, and for restriction of Pleaders.10. To make Debts assignable.9. For the recovery of Debts owing by Corporations.8. Against the Sale of Offices.7. For the further declaration and prevention of Fraudulent Contracts and Conveyances.6. For the more speedy and easy recovery of Debts and Damages not exceeding the sum of Four Pounds.5. For the better regulating of Pleaders and their Fees.4. For the more speedy recovery of Rents.3. For ascertaining of Arbitrary Fines upon Descent and Alienation of Copyholds of Inheritance.2. For taking away Common Recoveries, and the unnecessary Charges of Fines, and to pass and charge Lands entailed as Lands in Fee-simple.1. For taking away Fines upon Bills, Declarations, and Original Writs.
14. An Act to allow Witnesses to be sworn for prisoners.13. Acts for settling County Judicatures, Guardians of Orphans, Courts of Appeal, County Treasurers, and Workhouses, with Tables of Fees and Short Forms of declaration.24512. An Act for all County Registers, Will, and Administrators; and for preventing Inconvenience, Delay, Charge, and Irregularity, in Chancery and Com-
24511. To prevent solicitation of Judges, Bribery, Extortion, Charge of Motions, and for restriction of Pleaders.10. To make Debts assignable.9. For the recovery of Debts owing by Corporations.8. Against the Sale of Offices.7. For the further declaration and prevention of Fraudulent Contracts and Conveyances.6. For the more speedy and easy recovery of Debts and Damages not exceeding the sum of Four Pounds.5. For the better regulating of Pleaders and their Fees.4. For the more speedy recovery of Rents.3. For ascertaining of Arbitrary Fines upon Descent and Alienation of Copyholds of Inheritance.2. For taking away Common Recoveries, and the unnecessary Charges of Fines, and to pass and charge Lands entailed as Lands in Fee-simple.1. For taking away Fines upon Bills, Declarations, and Original Writs.244† There is certainly a notion of Mr. Justice Doddridge being the author of this excellent book, or at least standing in the same relation to it as that C. B. Gilbert does to Bacon's Ab.; for the works cited in it make it impossible he should have written it all.**stabilit usum qui tollit abusum*243242***241llllllllllll240239capias ad respondendum*capias ad respondendum**238237236235234233Nisi PriusNisi Prius232231nullum tempus230229de WilletSpencely*de WilletSpencely**228vivâ voce227e. gnotv*e. gnotv*vice versâ*226v† Goodtitle v***225BlakePerrinvice versâ224223222221220alio intuitu219**vll*218217llv216215214213212in propria persona211llllsl210an undefended actionslslslNisi Priusin banco209non constatsolvit ad diem*non constatsolvit ad diem*Solvit post diem—*Solvit ante diem*Solvit ad diem—Non est factum—208lll207206205indebitatus assumpsit204solvit post diemsolvit ad diemnon est factum203***wholepervadesparental solicituderestoreanxiety to maintainclearly statingand exactly answered202¶ E. G. His giving as an example of assumpsit, an undertaking without consideration.§ Lord R. 393.‡ 2 Camp. 631.† Sir W. Jones, 240.**pointedlyevery complaint be accurately and precisely ascertained in writingwithout giving him previous noticecare and circumspection*non assumpsitindebitatus assumpsit201200quare clausum fregit199***198197special196pleadinglmeditatione fugœ195del credere194193***Cour de Conciliation192Nisi Prius191***190189188187chronic cases186far too remarkable to have been inserted:—"By this means a statute made upon great consideration, introduced in a solemn and pompous manner, by this strict construction has had no other effect than to add at most three words to a conveyance."—I Atk. 591. The remark nearly in the same words is adopted by Blackstone, who cites lord Hardwicke in confirmation of it.—2 Com. 336.the use of185v*v**184183B, A.TayleureDoeB. A.Clarke,DoeCom*B, A.TayleureDoeB. A.Clarke,DoeCom**182181detinue180quia timet179178certiorari177176175petition de droitfiatlatitat174fiatfiatmonstrans de droitpetition de droit173Pays de Coutûmefree bench172171170169168167fera naturehostis humani generiscaput lupinum166l165164tertium quid163162161160159158157156155154153ll152151Nisi Prius150149moon148147146145144143142***141Tempus novatur rerum140139138fromuponPossunt quia posse videntur."137136135134† Ibid.**Triccum in lege*ac etiams133132131130129128***Mr. Brougham
248 said, that at that late hour the House would little expect of him, that he should follow his hon. and learned friend through the patient, long, and elaborate, detail, into which he had entered. It seemed to him that the House would arrive—if not at as speedy, at least at a more safe conclusion—if it allowed itself time for reflection, by a short adjournment of the present debate. It would be an ill compliment to his hon. and learned friend, if he were to affect to be
248The Solicitor General
 concurred in the propriety of an adjournment till to-morrow fortnight.Mr. Brougham
256l255254253l252251250249 said:—I cannot, Sir, allow the present occasion to pass without offering a few words. I rejoice that the hon. and learned member concurs in the propriety of the proposal for an adjournment; and it will render it unnecessary for me at present to enter into any detailed discussion. Independently of those difficulties, under which, under any circumstances, I must have laboured, from want of professional knowledge and professional habits, I am sure the House will readily believe, that the occupation in which I have been engaged for the last few days, has tended still further to incapacitate me for the task of discussion at present. I can only speak, therefore, rather of the spirit in which the proposition is made, than attempt to follow the hon. and learned gentleman, who has gone through his great subject with such patience and investigation, and such ability of illustration. I fully concur in the opinion, that it would be unwise to arrive now at a precipitate but conclusive vote; and I think the hon. and learned gentleman must himself perceive, that the terms of his motion are so general, that it is impossible from thence to form any precise notion of the nature of the reforms which he would introduce. I do not mean to quarrel with the generality of those terms; but until the explanation of to-night, speculation as their precise object was rather calculated to mislead. Hence an additional reason is afforded for not calling upon the House at present to express any distinct opinion. The hon. and learned gentleman's notice referred to certain reforms in the law, and its administration in the courts, as time had rendered necessary
256l255254253l252251250249Mr. Secretary Peel
257 said, that after so long and so laborious a speech as that which the House had just heard, it was but reasonable that time should be given for considering the various topics referred to. His object in rising was merely to enter into a short explanation. With respect to the appeals before the Privy Council, the reason why a greater number were not disposed of was, because there were no agents or parties before the Privy Council, whom they could hear. Now this, he apprehended, arose from the different manner in which appeals from the inferior courts of Judicature to the superior were disposed of in this country and in India. The course pursued in India was in every respect more summary than in this country. In India, the cause was removed altogether from the inferior to the superior court, the whole being embodied in the written pleadings and arguments of counsel, and out of these the court of Appeal made it a practice never to travel, without calling for any fresh lights upon the subject, whether the judgment given was right or wrong. Perhaps the inhabitants of India were a little disappointed that the same course was not pursued here in this country. Indeed he had reason to know that some discontent had been felt upon
257Mr. Wynn
259l.l.l.l.l. said, he wished to call the attention of the House to a subject of considerable importance. He was anxious to move for certain returns, in continuation of former returns, with a view of showing the enormous expense at which Savings Banks were maintained by the public. He was one of the earliest and most active in promoting them, and therefore he could not be actuated by any hostile view in his present proceeding. He must, however, candidly state, that when he promoted the establishment of Savings Banks he did not expect that they would cost the country half a million sterling for their maintenance. He expected that such institutions would pay their own expense, and that the poor man would, by their means, be enabled to invest his ten, twenty, or fifty pounds, with as much security as the rich. He had never contemplated that they were to receive a larger interest than what the public creditor received. It was high time that the subject should be inquired into. Up to the 5th January 1827, the amount paid by the public was 432,080259l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 presented, at the bar, a Petition from the Corporation of London praying for the Repeal of the Corporation and Test Acts.Mr. Sheriff Stable
 said, that in a very large assembly of the Common Council, the majority of whom were members of the established church, he was happy to say the petition had passed with only two or three dissenting voices.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, the petition had been carried by a very considerable majority in the common council, a body consisting of two hundred and sixty persons, two hundred and forty of whom were annually elected. The petition, therefore, spoke the sentiments of that body, and, through them, of the citizens of London. Nothing could more clearly show the "march of the mind," as it was called, than that, in 1790, a similar measure when put forward in the common council, had scarcely a hand held up in favour of it: on the contrary strong resolutions were passed, thanking those members who had voted against the repeal of those obnoxious acts; but now, after the lapse of thirty-seven years, only three or four hands were held up against the petition. He trusted that the illustrious individual at the head of the ministry, and who had been so long at the head of the army, would take a liberal view of this question. He must be well acquainted with the inconvenience which resulted to officers who were compelled, on their arrival in this country, to take the oaths under these acts; and who, if they did not, were liable to be informed against, by any common informer.Mr. Alderman Wood
306 hoped, that the prayer of the petition would be complied with. It was a folly to be passing, from year to year, an Indemnity act. The law as it now stood occasioned great inconvenience to members of the established church. The Dissenters could not, from conscientious scruples, fill certain offices. The consequence was, that they must be
306Mr. Alderman Thompson
 concurred entirely in the liberal sentiments which had fallen from the hon. member. For himself, he was prepared to say, that no religious creed ought to disable men from filling any situation, military or civil. At the same time, it was right to guard against alarming the prejudices of those who thought that the Dissenters could not be relieved unless the Catholics were relieved also. He had shown by the vote he had given, that he was favourable to granting the claims of the Catholics, but at the same time he was glad to see the two questions separated. He thought that the questions ought to be perfectly distinct. He was himself a Dissenter from the church of England, but only because he professed the established religion of Scotland, the land in which he was born. He thought it a monstrous thing, while there were no tests imposed upon persons of the church of England in Scotland, that he, a Scotchman, should be required to undergo any tests in England. If he had an opportunity, when the question came before the House, he would state his reasons why he did not think this brand of ignominy ought to be continued on him, merely because he happened to be born in a different faith from others.Mr. Fergusson
307 said, there certainly did exist such a law. It was an
307Mr. Alderman Waithman
 in moving that the House should resolve itself into a Committee of Supply, said that, it was his intention to ask for a vote of seamen for six months, and not for the whole year. He had felt it his duty to take this course, because a Finance Committee was about to be appointed, and because it was the course which had been adopted, under similar circumstances, in 1817.Sir G. Cockburn,
308 said, that as the course adopted in 1817 had been alluded to, he rose to object to that course being so essentially deviated from in the present instance. He was aware that the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had given notice of a motion for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the finances of the country, but then, in 1817, no supplies were voted for ten days after the message of the Prince Regent had been sent down to the House. A very different course, however, seemed now about to be adopted. When the House was last year promised, that such a committee should be appointed, every measure of finance was postponed, because the House was convinced that Mr. Canning desired earnestly to have the financial affairs of the country thoroughly investigated. The right hon. Secretary opposite must, however, see that the House could not give that confidence to him, which it had reposed in the right hon. gentleman now no more. That right hon. gentleman had acceded to the wishes of the House; but the right hon. Secretary opposite, who had so long been a member of his majesty's government, had never yet acceded to the importunities which had been urged. Be-
308Mr. Maberly
309 said, he certainly had no right to complain of the observations of the hon. gentleman. The ground he had taken was a perfectly fair parliamentary ground; but he entreated the hon. member to hear him, and he thought he would see that his objections were not so strong as he appeared to think them. The estimate was founded upon the number of men which it was thought necessary to maintain for the service of the country. It was the province of the sovereign to state that number to the House: and the only vote that the House would be called upon to pass would be, for the wages and victuals of these men, not for the whole year, but for six months; in order that, if the committee of finance found it necessary to make any alteration in this part of the expenditure, they might do so the more easily. Now, in this the precedent of 1817 had been their guide. In 1817, the vote had been asked for a few days later than it was now, because, to defer it, would be to inconvenience the public service. As to the precedent of 1817, it had been followed in every respect, with the exception that the names of the persons were not known. The hon. member had stated, that he could not have confidence in him, because he had long been a member of government, and had never brought forward any motion of this kind. This, however, was inaccurate. It so happened, that he was a member of the government in 1817, and that he also was a member of that finance committee; from which it
309Mr. Peel
 said, that his opposition was, and should be, given to measures, and not to men. If it could be shown to him, that the public service would be impeded by the refusal of the present vote, he would support it; but no such case had yet been made out. He trusted that the government would proceed voluntarily to measures of economy and retrenchment; but if it did not take that course, it would be the duty of the House to enforce it. He repeated that he was not desirous to oppose the present ministry, especially since it contained one right hon. gentleman peculiarly calculated to take an extended view of the national finances; but for twenty years past the public money had been voted away, session after session, with a facility which he must characterize as indecent. For himself, he could see no possible danger to the public service in taking the present vote only for the term of three months.Sir John Sebright
310 said, that as he was not
310Sir G. Cockburn
l.l.l.,313l. said, that the amount of the sinking fund was now fixed at 5,000,000l.l.l.,313l.Mr. Maberly
 said, the hon. gentleman was correct in what he said respecting the Sinking-fund being payable out of the consolidated fund, whether there was or was not an excess of income. As to the army and navy pensions, the last instalment would be paid in July next, and it would be for the finance committee to consider that as well as the other branches of our expenditure. He thought there was nothing extraordinary in the vote now asked for; as it was usual to give ministers credit for a vote of this kind on their own responsibility. The increase of our naval force this year was not a subject for the consideration of a finance committee; and therefore no delay of the present vote could be necessary on that account. The question of the policy of that increase might be entered into at present, or at any future period; but the finance committee could not enter into the subject of the number of men which might be necessary. That was a part of its duty which, he was convinced, the House would not delegate to it. The amount of force necessary would be proposed by government, and the House would deal with it as it thought fit; but the finance committee would have nothing to do with it, though it might inquire as to the amount of expense by which such force could be maintained. As to the vote before the committee, he would only add, that whenever the subject of the treaty which had been referred to should come before the House, he should be ready to defend its policy, and to contend that it was not an attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of an independent state, but that it was called for by circumstances which could be met in no other way.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
 said, that the hon. member had certainly misunderstood what had fallen from his right hon. friend, if he supposed that he meant any thing personally offensive to him. He had merely stated, that the hon. member seemed to be unacquainted with the A, B, C, of the process of a committee of supply. There was nothing in that observation which ought to give the hon. member uneasiness.Mr. Secretary Peel
 wished to know, whether the present ministers, on coming into their places, had found any plans of economy matured by their predecessors? The late Mr. Canning, in giving notice of the finance committee, had stated, that ministers would apply themselves diligently to the reduction of the public expenditure. Under these circumstances, he was desirous of knowing whether any progress had been made towards the reduction of the public burthens by the predecessors of the present ministry? The frequent recurrence of struggles for ascendancy, of defeats, and of changes, tended greatly to weaken the confidence of the country in the government, and distracted the attention of ministers from a business to which their whole attention should be devoted. He was unwilling to obstruct any necessary supply; yet he thought that ministers ought to explain to the House their intentions.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that the vote had been framed in the same manner as at present for the last nineteen years.Mr. Croker
 complained, that the Corporation of London, while they thus prayed for relief to a certain portion of their citizens, were themselves guilty of intolerance and oppression. He then alluded to some proceedings towards certain butchers in Whitechapel, who had been refused their freedom, on the authority of a bye-law, because they professed the Jewish religion.Mr. John Martin
 said, it was hard upon his hon. friend to tell him that he did not know his A, B, C. He was sure his hon. friend did know his letters—he meant so far as regarded taxation; for he knew nothing of his hon. friend's grammatical learning.Mr. Alderman Wood
 complained of the want of clearness in the accounts laid before the House. He thought that any two bankers' clerks well acquainted with business, could put them in a shape in which they could be understood. At present, they were nearly unintelligible.Mr. John Wood
 said, he was not to be put down by such observations as had been addressed to him that night. If personalities were resorted to, he could retaliate. He still thought the motion improper.Mr. Hume
 said, that if he had not yet learnt his A, B, C, he would endeavour to study his letters. He maintained, however, that the right hon. gentleman was wrong in the position which he took. The committee had only received notice that a vote of seamen would be moved for, and now they were called upon to grant money for their support, which was decidedly contrary to the practice of parliament.Mr. Hume
 complained of this attempt to vote money without notice having been given. In the notices of the day it was stated that a supply of seamen would be moved, but nothing was said about their wages or victuals. There was a considerable amount of unappropriated balances in the Exchequer, which the government might make use of without calling on that House for further sums, until the promised financial explanation had been given.Mr. Hume
311 said, that the charges of the country were going on, year after year, increasing. He would not, therefore, consent to vote a single shilling until the estimates were regularly before the House. He should be glad to hear whether the recent government had devoted any of its attention to the subject of economy. He did not object to the present ministry; nor would he oppose them, while they took a course likely to be beneficial to the country; but he did insist, that it was criminal to grant them any vote, until they declared what the expenditure of the whole year would be likely to require. There could be no difficulty, if ministers meant fairly, in their doing this. The right hon. Secretary opposite told the House, that it was the province of the sovereign
311Mr. Hume
l.l. opposed the grant, and declared that the legislature was going on, year after year, in a course of disgracefully wasteful expenditure, exceeding the income of the country, and making up the deficiency by the issue of Exchequer-bills. In 1792, the whole expenditure of the establishments of the country had been a little more than 5,000,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, there were two classes of persons in the city of London, the one remarkable for just and liberal conduct, the other for conduct directly the reverse. The gaols bore testimony to the illiberality of courts of Aldermen, who had set on foot prosecutions which government, greatly to its credit, had generally discountenanced. He verily believed, that if the law allowed them to revert to the fire and the faggot, the court of Aldermen would take advantage of it.Mr. Hume
 said, he was lost in astonishment at what had fallen from the hon. member. If he had not so often heard his voice in committees of supply, he should have supposed that it was some extremely young member who had entertained a notion, that, because there was a balance in the Exchequer, it was at the disposal of government. Did the hon. member know so little of the history of the constitution—did he so little understand the character of a committee of supply—as to suppose that, were there millions in the Exchequer, the government could touch a single shilling without a grant from parliament? The hon. member did not know the A, B, C of the progress of supply if he did not know the truth of this. If the hon. member had found out the secret of providing wages and victuals without money, he had indeed made a most brilliant discovery.Mr. Huskisson
315 undertook to say, that
315Mr. Huskisson
l.l.,l.,312 said, he could not allow this first vote to pass without making a few remarks. He did not so much object to the particular vote now before the committee, as to the fact, that they had not a full statement before them of the whole of the estimates. Great expectations were held out from the appointment of the finance committee. He hoped they would be realised; but he could not conceal his fears that this committee would be used, as former committees had been; that it would be made the 'scape-goat for the proposition of fresh taxes, which the ministry would not dare to propose on their own responsibility. He owned he had had great hopes that the right hon. gentleman, whose loss he, in common with the country, so sincerely deplored, would have been enabled to meet the financial difficulties of the country. Those difficulties could not now be concealed; yet at present he saw
l.l.,l.,312Sir J. Wrottesley
 said, he saw no possible objection to the motion. Indeed, without the most detailed information it would be impossible to give any correct opinion upon the matter.The Solicitor-General
337336335334333 thought, the public were much indebted to his hon. friend, the member for Durham, for his persevering efforts to call the attention of parliament to the defects and abuses of the court of Chancery, with a view to their remedy; but he confessed, that he was not prepared to give his assent, from any thing he had heard either upon that or a former occasion, to the main project of his hon. friend, and which he held forth as a cure for the evils of which he complained; namely, the separation of the jurisdiction in bankruptcy, from the great seal. From the vast importance of the cases decided in bankruptcy, involving the most, difficult questions of law and equity, and on which interest of the greatest magnitude to the commercial world depended, he (Mr. F.) was convinced, that they never would be satisfied with the decision, in such cases of any but the highest authority; and although in this department of bankruptcy as well as others, the lord Chancel
337336335334333Mr. Fergusson
338 was of opinion, that, it was desirable to postpone any discussion of the question, until the papers moved for by the hon. and learned gentleman had been produced. So far was the lord Chancellor from having abandoned the principle of the bill which he had introduced into that House, that it was his intention to issue forty or fifty orders founded on the recommendations of the commission. In his (Mr. Peel's) opinion, it was better to look forward to future amelioration, than to revive the discussions to which the report of the commission had given rise. He certainly, however, could not think that the composition of that commission had been objectionable, because there were persons belonging to it, who were unconnected with the court of Chancery. Had it been otherwise, he was persuaded that an objection would have been made to the constitution of the commission, and that, the usefulness of having persons upon it who were embarrassed by no professional prepossessions would have been warmly urged. There was one matter of great importance in the hon. gentle-
338Mr. Secretary Peel
 was of opinion that some expressions which had fallen from the right hon. member for Liverpool last night required explanation. The right hon. gentleman had distinctly stated, that the projected finance committee had nothing to do with the amount of the civil and military establishments; that it was not within the scope of any finance-committee, to touch upon those delicate topics. If this was the case, what was the committee to do? and what was the House to do with its report when made? What was the meaning of taking the vote of seamen for six months only, if it was not in anticipation of some effect to be produced by the report of the committee? If, however, that committee was to be restricted in its operations—if it was only to report that our finances were in a delicate situation, he would call it a splendid humbug on the country. For his own part, he could not see any thing unconstitutional in the committee determining the amount of our military as well as our civil establishments. If it had not that object, what was the use of postponing the other grants until it was formed? Unless some redaction was contemplated, he could not see why the amount of all the grants for the service of the year should not be stated at once. It would not do to approach our financial difficulties gently. They ought to be treated in a bold manner. The wound should be probed to the bottom. No temporary applications would be sufficient. If the intended finance committee was not appointed for such object, he cared not a straw for its appointment. He hoped the right hon. gentleman opposite would give the House some explanation on this point.Mr. Bernal
342 said, that after the appeal which had been made to him, he could not remain silent. He would admit that the estimates, as laid before the House, were those which had been prepared by lord Godcrich's administration. It was asked, whether he was prepared to pledge himself to those resolutions? He would answer, that they were, he believed, made up with reference to the present wants of the
342Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that great public inconvenience would follow if any delay took place in bringing up the report, as the funds were required for the public service.Sir Byam Martin
 said, that was no reason why the House should not do its duty. Why had not parliament been summoned to meet in November, if there was a necessity for having these votes so soon? As to the vote before the House, I he would not concur in it, until a statement of the whole services of the year were laid before them. The only effectual control which the House had over the administration of the country was to withhold the supplies, and he would do so; until the accounts he had mentioned were supplied. He would not consent to the vote on the credit of ministers, or in anticipation of what might be done by the finance committee; for in the labours of that committee he professed he had no confidence.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, the hon. member was mistaken in supposing that such an opinion had fallen from his right hon. friend, as that the finance committee would be restricted from inquiring into the civil establishments of the country. In the course of their labours, they would be allowed as much scope as any other finance committee that had ever been appointed.Mr. Peel
346345344 said, that the representation made of the words which had fallen from the right hon. Secretary for
346345344Mr. C. P. Thompson
 observed, that he would leave the House to judge whether the hon. gentleman had any right to infer from any thing that he had said that night, that any difference of opinion existed between himself and the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies on the subject of the finance committee. All he had done that night was to deny that his right hon. colleague had asserted that the finance committee had nothing to do with the extent of our civil establishments. Having said thus much, he trusted he should not be considered as acting disrespectfully to the House, when he declared his intention of postponing till Friday next, any explanation respecting the finance committee. Thus much he would state now, that no limitation would be imposed upon its powers which had not been imposed on the finance committees which were appointed in 1786, 1797, and 1817.Mr. Secretary Peel
347 said, he recollected extremely well, that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had stated distinctly that the finance committee was to have nothing to do with the extent of our naval and military establishments, but that it was to confine itself entirely to an inquiry into the amount and appropriation of the money votes. He was satisfied with the explanation which the right hon. Secretary had just given the House. If the committee of finance were to have the same powers which had been conferred upon former committees, he should be satisfied. One thing was of importance—the names which the right hon. gentleman would submit to the House on Friday night. He should judge
347Mr. Maberly
 could not agree with the hon. member, that the House or the country would be satisfied with the pledge which the names of the committee afforded. He should look to the powers proposed to be given to the committee not to the names of its members.Mr. Warburton
 denied that the business of the court of Chancery was increasing, at the present moment, in the degree which had been represented. He protested, too, against, the separation of the bankruptcy business from the Chancellor's jurisdiction. The questions arising in bankruptcy were so nice, and of so much importance, that they required that the attention of the first judge in the country should be directed to them.Mr. G. Bankes
 said, that he had pretty much the same expectation as to any great good being to be done by the finance committee as had been expressed by the hon. member for Rochester; but he thought the hon. member for Aberdeen could not possibly bring forward any plan of economy less likely to be popular, than any thing materially crippling the British navy; particularly, as he was informed, by a very high naval authority, that the ships were now sent to sea so extremely under-manned, that in case of any sudden collision some very awkward accidents might be expected.Mr. Hudson Gurney
341>coute qui coute.l.l.340 observed, that the statement with which the hon. member commenced his speech might be taken as a tolerably fair specimen of the correctness of the statements with which he was in the habit of indulging the House. Referring to something which had passed in the committee last night, the hon. member had said that he would not be deterred from criticising the scale of public expense and the waste of public money, because he (Mr. Croker) had told him, that the same course had been pursued for nineteen years. That was the statement which the hon.
341>coute qui coute.l.l.340Mr. Croker
343 said, that the hon. Secretary to the Admiralty had not given a satisfactory answer to the statements of his hon. friend. It did appear, that since 1817, our naval force had been increased from nineteen thousand to thirty thousand men. A thousand men had been for the purpose of suppressing the piracies in the West Indies; then came other additions, in consequence of the Burmese war, the protection of our commerce in South America, and the affairs of the Mediterranean. Now, if all these causes were in operation together, he could easily understand the necessity for keeping up our naval force to its proposed amount; but as most of those causes had ceased to exist, why should the larger force be continued? There were two things to be considered with respect to our naval force: first, what was the amount, necessary to be kept up; and next, what were the resources of the country to bear the expense? As to the first, he could not see why the same necessity for protecting her commerce would not apply to America. She had a commerce to protect as well as England, and yet her naval force bore no proportion to that which we kept up. Then, as to the means for keeping this force up, he thought, the country could not afford it; and he had no doubt, that if such extravagant establishments were maintained, it would lead, at no very distant period, to some dreadful explosion, in which the credit of the country must suffer. Under all the circumstances of
343Mr. Monck
"That it is the duty of this House, in the present state of the finances of the Country, before voting thirty thousand seamen and marines for the service of the navy for the ensuing six months, to take into their consideration what peculiar circumstances of the country can warrant the vote for so large a number, when it appears that sixteen thousand seamen and marines were by parliament deemed sufficient for the naval Service of the country in the year 1792, and nineteen thousand for the service of the year 1817."19,069,061"In 1827
19,069,061"In 182719,344,418In 1826
19,344,418In 1826£17,211,920In 1825
£17,211,920In 1825
19,069,061"In 1827
19,069,061"In 182719,344,418In 1826
19,344,418In 1826£17,211,920In 1825
£17,211,920In 1825"That the total expenditure in the year 1792, for the support of his majesty's civil list; for the charges on the consolidated fund; for the expense of the navy, the army, the ordnance, the militia, the miscellaneous services, and appropriated duties, did not amount to five millions and a half in that year; whilst the expenditure for the navy, ordnance, and miscellaneous services (and exclusive of two millions for the civil list and other charges on the consolidated fund), was—28,239,8481827
28,239,848182728,076,9581826
28,076,9581826£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was
£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was
28,239,8481827
28,239,848182728,076,9581826
28,076,9581826£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was
£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was"That the best interests of the country require that its resources should be renovated and strengthened by retrenchment and economy in time of peace; whereas the amount of interest-charge of the funded and unfunded debt has been increasing yearly for the last three years. That"That it is desirable, before this House vote any part of the naval and military establishments for the year, that the extent of these establishments, and the estimates for them, should be laid before this House, together with a statement of the ways and means by which these estimates and the permanent expenses of the country are to be provided for; particularly as the expenditure of the country, for the two past years, has considerably exceeded the total income, and which yearly excess of expenditure has been provided for by an issue of Exchequer-bills, and consequent increase of the unfunded debt of the country.349l. declared his intention to oppose this vote in every stage, until some pledge was given that the expenditure should be examined into, and should be reduced as much as possible. He Compared the opposition, which some hon. gentlemen on the Treasury bench made to him, to the charges which the wolf brought against the lamb, describing himself as the lamb, which the wolf, at all events, was determined to make out to be guilty; for they first accused him of overstating the expenditure, and when beaten on that point, they declared in general terms, that he knew nothing about the matter he was talking of. The hon. member then went into statements which shewed that for many years the force of the navy had been near twenty thousand men, and that, at the present moment, it was thirty thousand men, including the royal marines. The American Fleet, destined to protect their commerce, amounted to twenty-eight ships, while ours amounted to one hundred and forty sail. He recommended that we should follow the example of the Americans, who were preparing for war, not as we were, by continuing an enormous expenditure, but by keeping their expenses within ten millions of dollars per annum, and by paying off in peace the debt they contracted in war, which was now reduced to sixty-four millions of dollars. He repeated, that the American navy consisted but of twenty-eight ships, of which one, the Delaware, was a line of battle ship; four were forty-four gun frigates of the first class, and two of the second class; nine sloops of war of the first class, and eight of the second class and four row boats attached to the sloops. The whole cost of this navy was 670,000"That it is the duty of this House, in the present state of the finances of the Country, before voting thirty thousand seamen and marines for the service of the navy for the ensuing six months, to take into their consideration what peculiar circumstances of the country can warrant the vote for so large a number, when it appears that sixteen thousand seamen and marines were by parliament deemed sufficient for the naval Service of the country in the year 1792, and nineteen thousand for the service of the year 1817."19,069,061"In 1827
19,069,061"In 182719,344,418In 1826
19,344,418In 1826£17,211,920In 1825
£17,211,920In 1825
19,069,061"In 1827
19,069,061"In 182719,344,418In 1826
19,344,418In 1826£17,211,920In 1825
£17,211,920In 1825"That the total expenditure in the year 1792, for the support of his majesty's civil list; for the charges on the consolidated fund; for the expense of the navy, the army, the ordnance, the militia, the miscellaneous services, and appropriated duties, did not amount to five millions and a half in that year; whilst the expenditure for the navy, ordnance, and miscellaneous services (and exclusive of two millions for the civil list and other charges on the consolidated fund), was—28,239,8481827
28,239,848182728,076,9581826
28,076,9581826£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was
£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was
28,239,8481827
28,239,848182728,076,9581826
28,076,9581826£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was
£28,060,288In the year 182.5 the charge was"That the best interests of the country require that its resources should be renovated and strengthened by retrenchment and economy in time of peace; whereas the amount of interest-charge of the funded and unfunded debt has been increasing yearly for the last three years. That"That it is desirable, before this House vote any part of the naval and military establishments for the year, that the extent of these establishments, and the estimates for them, should be laid before this House, together with a statement of the ways and means by which these estimates and the permanent expenses of the country are to be provided for; particularly as the expenditure of the country, for the two past years, has considerably exceeded the total income, and which yearly excess of expenditure has been provided for by an issue of Exchequer-bills, and consequent increase of the unfunded debt of the country.349l.Mr. Hume
 expressed his determination to oppose the motion. He thought that the House ought not to have been called upon to vote any money, until ministers had made a general statement of the scale at which the whole of the establishments of the country were to be maintained, He would not be deterred from condemning what he conceived to be the profligate waste of the public money, because the hon. Secretary for the Admiralty had stated last night, that the same course had been pursued for nineteen years. Ministers required thirty thousand seamen for the present year, which was precisely the amount voted last year. From this he thought he had a right to infer that they did not intend to reduce the establishments at all. Yet it was only last session that a minister, who was now unfortunately unable to keep the pledge which he made, declared that our finances were in such a precarious state as to render the most rigid economy absolutely necessary. The existing state of the world was not such as to require the maintenance of a large naval force. The piracies in the West Indies and in South America, which had been urged as a plea for increasing our navy, had been completely put down. The Turkish fleet, too, had been destroyed. On what pretext, then, was the present establishment required? After repeating the observations which he made in the committee last night, the hon. member concluded by moving, that the report be brought up on this day week.Mr. Hume
332331" Nulli negabimus, nulli differemus, nulli vendemus justitiam vel rectum.330329Bis dat, qui cito dat.328Non meus hic sermo.327326325324323322321320319318317316 said, he rose to renew his entreaty to the House, that they would again take into their earnest consideration the present state of the Court of Chancery. He could assure them that in any statement he might have to make, he did not intend to exaggerate the existing evil. Although he believed that the motion could not be objected to by any individual, still he thought it was only fair to the House and to the country to state, not, however, at any length, his view of the subject, and thus to place before the House the real evils of this court and to point out the
332331" Nulli negabimus, nulli differemus, nulli vendemus justitiam vel rectum.330329Bis dat, qui cito dat.328Non meus hic sermo.327326325324323322321320319318317316Mr. M. A. Taylor
339, in reply, said that his statements as to the business of the Court had been taken from the papers of the judges themselves. His observations as to the present lord Chancellor were not intended in the slightest degree to impugn that learned lord's professional character; but the fact, was, that he was not an equity lawyer; and that there had been fewer appeals in his time, because people saw no advantage in appealing from the Vice-chancellor or the Master of the Rolls, who were highly conversant with equity practice, to a judge. As to the observations of the right hon. Secretary, he had been assured by lord Eldon himself that that learn
339Mr. M. A. Taylor
348 said, that as they had been told that the committee was to have the same powers as were intrusted to former committees of finance, he would refer the House to the resolution tinder which the finance committee of 1817 had sat. Reference had been made to the finance committees appointed in 1786 and in 1797. Now he would accept with pleasure the pledge of the right hon. Secretary if he were allowed to refer to the powers granted to the finance committee in 1817, but not if he were called upon to adhere to those granted to the two earlier committees. For he found, by the journals, that very different powers had been given in the two cases. The resolution which appointed the earlier committees excluded from their inquiries all subjects of first-rate importance: whilst the resolution which appointed the finance committee of 1817 embraced every object to which inquiry should be directed. He thanked the right hon. Secretary for the explanation which he had just given, and contended that his hon. friend near him had gained by it the full object for which they had been arguing. He thought the present discussion had not been most properly brought on; for not an hour ought to have been lost in warning the country, if it had really been stated from authority, that the finance committee was not to have: the right to inquire into the extent of I our establishments, civil and military. That committee must be fairly appointed ' and honestly conducted, and must proceed right onwards in its duty, to merit the confidence of the country. If it did
348Mr. Spring Rice
 said, it was impossible to refuse the present vote, without greatly injuring the public service. The increase in our naval force was necessary for the due protection of our commerce in every part of the world. If England did not maintain her superiority at sea, she could not maintain her proper rank amongst nations.Mr. K. Douglas
 said, he expected much benefit to the country from the labours of the finance committee, but he hoped that they would not be restricted from inquiring into the extent of our civil establishments. With respect to the present ministry, he highly approved of the members who composed it, and he should be glad if their measures were such as he could support.Mr. G. Robinson
350 said, that under the
350Sir J. Wrottesley
387386385384383382381380379378478175Total
478175Total13753The Russian
13753The Russian14443The French
14443The French19779The English
19779The EnglishWounded.Killed.
Wounded.Killed.
478175Total
478175Total13753The Russian
13753The Russian14443The French
14443The French19779The English
19779The EnglishWounded.Killed.
Wounded.Killed.377376375374"NICHOLAS."(Signed)"St. Petersburgh, Nov. 8.,373372371370369368367366365364363362361 rose, and addressed the House as follows:—387386385384383382381380379378478175Total
478175Total13753The Russian
13753The Russian14443The French
14443The French19779The English
19779The EnglishWounded.Killed.
Wounded.Killed.
478175Total
478175Total13753The Russian
13753The Russian14443The French
14443The French19779The English
19779The EnglishWounded.Killed.
Wounded.Killed.377376375374"NICHOLAS."(Signed)"St. Petersburgh, Nov. 8.,373372371370369368367366365364363362361Mr. Hobhouse
 seconded the motion.Sir F. Burdett
388 addressed the House, in a tone of voice nearly inaudible, he said, he thought that, until the House were in possession of all the instructions sent out to sir E. Codrington, they could not be competent to come to a rational decision as to the battle. By agreeing to the motion, the House would not only be doing honour to the gallant admiral, but would also sanction the treaty that had been alluded to; which, in his opinion, they ought not to do. The hon. mover had expressed a hope, that government would carry that treaty into effect. Did he mean that government was to carry it into effect by a war? The British admiral had no right to demand an armistice. That, however, he did do, and threatened, that if it was not agreed to, ulterior measures would be resorted to. What measures were referred to, might be imagined from the sanguinary and disastrous victory of Navarino. He regretted the manner in which our old ally had been treated: and he had a right to call Turkey our "old ally," for a treaty was framed between this country and Turkey in 1675, which recited other previously existing relations between them. He feared that England would have cause
388Mr. Bankes
—" I did not say upon all points, but upon most."Mr. Hobhouse.
,—The right hon. gentleman is labouring under a gross mistake. I did not utter the sentiment he has attributed to me. I did not speak positively but hypothetically. I said—if ministers act so and so towards sir E. Codrington, people will say so and so of them, and the conclusions to which future historians will come, will be, that the better passions were absorbed by domestic jealousies.Mr. Hobhouse
420419418417416415414413412411 said, that differing so entirely as he did from the views entertained upon this subject by the hon. mover and the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, respecting either the principles upon which this motion was founded, or the impression to be apprehended from giving to it a qualified negative—differing so far from them in opinion upon these points, yet he cordially concurred in the propriety of the right hon. gentleman's concluding recommendation, as the best mode of disposing of such a motion, with delicacy to the gallant individuals to whom it referred, and proper consideration for all the circumstances of the case. In rising to address the House on this occasion, he could assure them, that he wished most studiously to avoid every expression which could, in the slightest degree, tend to interpose any obstacle to the carrying of that recommendation into effect. Had he been called upon to argue this question in detail, he assured the hon. gentleman opposite, that he should have been disposed steadily to adhere to that prudent and judicious course which they had described; namely, of considering this subject abstractedly from the question of the policy or justice of the treaty itself. It was not, he knew, expedient to mix up together subjects which were so disconnected; and he admitted that it was better to consider how far this vote could be asked for, consistently with the usage of parliament, or whether a refusal of it could be supposed to imply a withdrawal of praise from the gallant admiral who had so bravely commanded at Navarino. He was sure his hon. friend, the member for Dorsetshire,
420419418417416415414413412411Mr. Secretary Peel
422421 said, that, after the liberal speech which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he had very little to say; and he had no doubt that it would be the means of prompting his hon. colleague, who, he was sure, felt the same candour that the right hon. gentleman had expressed, to come to the conclusion which would be most satisfactory to the House, and to his gallant friends, whose characters he had so ably vindicated. It appeared to be admitted on all hands, that sir E. Codrington had performed the service on which he had been engaged, and under whatever circumstances it might have been imposed upon him, in a way that redounded highly to his character—in a way too, he might add, which was calculated, in a very eminent degree, to exalt the naval character of the country and to reflect honour on himself. It was not, however, his intention to take up the time of the House, by repeating those panegyrics which had already been bestowed
422421Sir F. Burdett
 said, that after the attention which the House had already paid to what he had to say on the subject, he would not take up their time in reply. There was only one term in the right hon. gentleman's speech with which he had to quarrel, and it was that in which he charged him with not having shown his discretion in bringing forward this motion. If there was nothing else to prove the discretion of his having done so, he thought that the mere fact of its having elicited the general praise that it had done with respect to the conduct of sir E. Codring-ton, was sufficient evidence; and he thought that the gallant admiral might himself dwell with satisfaction on what had taken place in the House that night. It had been said, that there would have been no objection to the motion, if we had been at war, and these words certainly proved to him, that what had likewise been observed that night—that the gallant admiral stood as high for valour and discretion as any man in his majesty's service—was strictly true. Under these circumstances, and believing that the conduct of the gallant admiral needed no further explanation, he should consent to the withdrawing of the motion.Mr. Hobhouse
360 said, the petition plainly showed, that whatever prejudices the Catholic church might once have entertained, they were now very rapidly abating, or rather they were totally extinct. The petitioners said, they rejoiced that the Pro-
360Mr. A. Dawson
 said, he held in his hand a petition, to which he must beg to call the attention of the House. It was from the Catholic body in Ireland, in favour of the claims of the Protestant Dissenters of England. He was authorized to assure the House, that the individuals who had signed this petition, being three thousand in number, comprised within themselves nearly all the wealth, character, and respectability of Ireland. He confessed that, though he was aware of the liberal spirit which pervaded the Catholics of Ireland, he could not help feeling a little surprised at the truly generous manner in which they expressed themselves in this petition. The hon. member, after reading several parts of the petition, insisted upon the right of every man to worship God in whatever way he pleased. That sentiment was well expressed in the petition; it had been gaining ground every day; he was glad of it, and he regretted that its progress had been so slow, for the denial of it had caused torrents of blood and tears to flow. He had had occasion to state in that House, on presenting a petition to the same effect as this, that the Dissenters petitioned for themselves; that they were totally independent of the Catholics. The Dissenters presented their own case, in their own name. The present petition, he was also bound to say, did not originate in any league between the Catholics and the Protestant Dissenters it proceeded from the Catholics alone. It was the spontaneous assistance of the Catholics to the cause of the Protestant Dissenters, in whose disabilities they sympathized.Mr. J. Smith
399398397396395de facto,394393 said, he was happy to hear the explanation of the hon. member. He asserted, however, that there never had existed on the part of any cabinet which had been formed since the battle of Navarino, the smallest intention to propose the thanks of parliament to the officers and men who were engaged in that affair. He would tell the hon. member the reason why such an intention could not enter into the mind of any prudent and sensible minister. It was this:—we voted the thanks of parliament for triumphs over our enemies—we voted them to mark our satisfaction, that in a conflict which we had foreseen and directed, with a power against which we had declared war, the skill and gallantry and zeal of our officers had triumphed over the skill and gallantry and zeal of our enemies, and that they had maintained, by that skill, gallantry, and zeal, the ancient superiority of our country above all others. But, could any reasonable man think of passing a similar vote on the present occasion, unless a precedent were quoted in justifica-
399398397396395de facto,394393Mr. Huskisson
392.—I can only say, that if the hon. member has that knowledge, his knowledge far exceeds mine. I do not mean by this to say, that there is any thing deficient in the explanation of the transaction, which has been sent home by the gallant admiral who commands in the Mediterranean. But I do say this, that no report has come to my knowledge, or,
392Mr. Huskisson
391390389 declared himself disappointed with the speech of the hon member who spoke last. He was at all times unwilling to address the House unnecessarily, and he had therefore fondly anticipated, that the result of the hon. member's speech would be the giving of a conclusive argument against the motion, and that it would not be necessary for him to trespass on their patience. But he was sorry to say that he had not heard from the hon. member one word which appeared to him to bear upon the question before the House. The hon. member had been pleased, in a manner not, he thought, altogether consistent with the usual courtesy of parliamentary proceedings, to enter into a discussion upon the merits of our intercourse with France and Russia, and the different steps taken at different periods, with a view to the pacification of Greece. Now, he really thought, that after the House had been told by the ministers of the Crown the reasons which precluded them—very reluctantly—from giving to the House the information which could alone enable parliament to come to a just conclusion on the subject, it would have been more fair and consistent to have adhered to the line very properly chalked out by the hon. member for Westminster—to have waved the consideration of the policy of the treaty, and to have confined his attention strictly to the motion which, he could not avoid saying, had been so indiscreetly brought before them. His hon. friend had said, that the object of the treaty, as he read it, was totally different from that of the protocol signed at St. Petersburgh in April, 1826. Now, he utterly denied that position. It was necessary to look both to the treaty and the protocol for the objects of the parties to them, and the motives which influenced the proceedings they had adopted. In both documents the objects which the contracting parties professed to have in view, and which they pledged themselves to effect, was the reconciliation of the Porte with Greece, and the pacification of the Levant. That was the object which was brought prominently forward.—His hon. friend had talked of fraud, conspiracy, trick, and violence; but he certainly could not have
391390389Mr. Huskisson
410409408407406405404bellum imperfectum;403de facto.402401onus400 said, that it had been so seldom his good fortune, during his parliamentary career, to coincide in opinion with the hon. member for Dorsetshire, that he embraced this opportunity of publicly declaring, that he did coincide, for once, with that hon. member. He entirely agreed with him in deploring the silence which was imposed upon hon. members, relative to this great question, by the alleged situation of the negotiations at Constantinople, and by the state of parties in the two Houses of parliament. He lamented the circumstances which prevented those who approved of the treaty of the 6th of July—among whom he was proud to rank himself—from stating the reasons on which their approbation was grounded. He agreed with the hon. member for Westminster—who had delivered a speech, admirable in its kind, and which, so far from being ill-advised, or indiscreet, appeared to him to be a model of discretion—that, with respect to the Treaty of London, there could be no medium: it was either one of the grossest infractions of the law of nations, or one of the most just, wise, generous, and disinterested compacts that ever was formed. After the general rumour that was abroad, that several persons had concurred in condemning the policy of that treaty, he could not refrain from entering his protest against being supposed to concur in their opinions. He believed the treaty of the 6th of July to be a just, a wise, a generous, and a disinterested compact. He
410409408407406405404bellum imperfectum;403de facto.402401onus400Sir J. Mackintosh
447 [Right Hon. Henry Goulburn] was of opinion, that the proposition of the hon. member for Aberdeen, for appointing eleven or twelve separate committees instead of one, would be productive of no advantage. There would be, in the committee about to be appointed, ample opportunities of examining into the manner in which the public accounts were kept, and of amending the system wherever it might be found faulty. The hon. member had greatly exaggerated the defects of that system, when he had alluded to the marking of a stick in the Exchequer. That practice was a relic of barbarism, and had long since been discontinued. But, though he objected to the hon. member's proposition generally, he would assure him, that if there should be any particular branch of the expenditure, such, for instance, as that of the colonies, which the committee should think they could not adequately inquire into, he had no objection to delegate that particular subject to a separate committee. When he stated that, he conceivd he gave the best pledge of the spirit and intentions with which he should go into the committee. He should go into the committee with the full determination of accurately investigating, and of properly deciding upon, the several topics which would be brought under his notice; and he felt a strong conviction, that the labours of the committee would tend to reduce the public burthens, and to place the finances of the country in a materially improved condition.447The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his surprise, that so few ministers of the Crown were appointed members of the committee. The omission of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies struck him as most extraordinary.Mr. Baring
 said, that the reason why more ministers were not in the list was, that the duties they had to perform occupied so much of their time, that it was impossible they could give any efficient attendance upon the committee. He had pressed his right hon. colleague to be a member of the committee; but he had refused upon the grounds just stated. He had been also desirous that the committee should have benefitted by the valuable assistance of the learned member opposite (Mr. Brougham); but the learned member had declined on account of his numerous professional avocations.Mr. Secretary Peel
 expressed a hope that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies would re-consider the determination to which he had come. Without meaning any disrespect to the members composing the committee, he might say, that the aggregate amount of their financial knowledge, bore no proportion to that possessed by the right hon. gentleman; and that if they were deprived of his services, he should consider it a very serious disadvantage to the country.Mr. Baring
448 begged to add his entreaties to those of his hon. friend, that the name of the right hon. Secretary might be included in the list. He was especially anxious to give expression to what was the deliberate opinion of the House; namely, that the assistance of the right hon. gentleman was of the utmost value. He trusted that nothing had happened lately, and that nothing could happen, to make such an omission necessary; for nothing could remove the rooted conviction of the House, in favour of the proposition of his
448Mr. Brougham
 said, he considered it necessary to say a few words, after the manner in which he had been appealed to by the hon. member for Callington, seconded, as that appeal was, by the hon. and learned gentleman. He certainly had, in the first communication with his right hon. colleague, on the subject of becoming a member of the committee, declined the proposition on account of the numerous official avocations which pressed upon him, and occupied nearly the whole of his time. Having, however, for a long series of years devoted the whole of his time to the public service, so far as his health and strength would permit, he was now willing, if it were in accordance with the feelings of the House, to attend the committee occasionally, and give so much of his assistance to it, as his health would allow. On this, as on all other occasions, the House might command his best services.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
 name was accordingly added, by Mr. Peel, to the list of the committee. After which, the House adjourned.Mr. Secretary Huskisson's
423"His Majesty is assured, that it will be satisfactory to you to learn, that, notwithstanding the diminution which has taken place in some branches of the Revenue
423"We are commanded by his Majesty to recommend to your early attention, an inquiry into the state of the revenue and expenditure of the country. rose, and spoke to the following effect:—In rising on the present occasion, Sir, in pursuance of the notice which I have given, I shall take the liberty in the first place, to move the reading of that passage in his majesty's most gracious speech, at the commencement of the session, in which he recommends us to inquire into the state of the public Income and Expenditure.423"His Majesty is assured, that it will be satisfactory to you to learn, that, notwithstanding the diminution which has taken place in some branches of the Revenue
423"We are commanded by his Majesty to recommend to your early attention, an inquiry into the state of the revenue and expenditure of the country.Mr. Secretary Peel
"That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the State of the Public Income and Expenditure of the United Kingdom, and to consider and report to the House, what further regulations and checks it may be proper, in their opinion, to adopt, for establishing an effectual control upon all charges incurred in the receipt, custody, and application, of the Public Money; and what further measures can be adopted for reducing any part of the Public Expenditure without detriment to the Public Service."439438437436435l.l.4341,168,2601827, by
1,168,2601827, by365,8431826, by
365,8431826, by£6,140Less than those of 1825, by
£6,140Less than those of 1825, by
1,168,2601827, by
1,168,2601827, by365,8431826, by
365,8431826, by£6,140Less than those of 1825, by
£6,140Less than those of 1825, byl.l.l.l.l.1,946,000Miscellaneous
1,946,000Miscellaneous1,574,000Ordnance
1,574,000Ordnance5,995,000Navy
5,995,000Navy372,000Commissariat
372,000Commissariat292,000Militia
292,000Militia810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.
810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.£6,586,000For the Army
£6,586,000For the Army
1,946,000Miscellaneous
1,946,000Miscellaneous1,574,000Ordnance
1,574,000Ordnance5,995,000Navy
5,995,000Navy372,000Commissariat
372,000Commissariat292,000Militia
292,000Militia810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.
810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.£6,586,000For the Army
£6,586,000For the Army43349,487,0001827
49,487,0001827£.49,513,000For 1826
£.49,513,000For 1826
49,487,0001827
49,487,0001827£.49,513,000For 1826
£.49,513,000For 1826l.l.l.49,581,000For 1827
49,581,000For 1827£.49,625,000For 1826, was
£.49,625,000For 1826, was
49,581,000For 1827
49,581,000For 1827£.49,625,000For 1826, was
£.49,625,000For 1826, was432l.l.l.21,144,000
21,144,000263,005,000Expenditure
263,005,000Expenditure£.284,149,000Income
£.284,149,000Income
21,144,000
21,144,000263,005,000Expenditure
263,005,000Expenditure£.284,149,000Income
£.284,149,000Incomel.l.l.l.l.l.43121,529,0001827
21,529,000182721,509,0001826
21,509,000182620,000,0001825
20,000,000182520,461,0001824
20,461,0001824£.18,477,0001823
£.18,477,0001823
21,529,0001827
21,529,000182721,509,0001826
21,509,000182620,000,0001825
20,000,000182520,461,0001824
20,461,0001824£.18,477,0001823
£.18,477,000182349,719,0001827
49,719,000182749,585,0001826
49,585,000182648,061,0001825
48,061,000182549,527,0001824
49,527,0001824£.47,692,0001823
£.47,692,0001823
49,719,0001827
49,719,000182749,585,0001826
49,585,000182648,061,0001825
48,061,000182549,527,0001824
49,527,0001824£.47,692,0001823
£.47,692,0001823l.430l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.429l.l.29,254,0001827
29,254,000182730,027,0001823
30,027,0001823£.33,679,000In January 1815
£.33,679,000In January 1815
29,254,0001827
29,254,000182730,027,0001823
30,027,0001823£.33,679,000In January 1815
£.33,679,000In January 181534,770,0001827 to
34,770,0001827 to42,209,0001823 to
42,209,0001823 to£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.
£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.
34,770,0001827 to
34,770,0001827 to42,209,0001823 to
42,209,0001823 to£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.
£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.l.l.28,381,0001827
28,381,000182728,596,0001823
28,596,0001823£.30,488,000In January 1815
£.30,488,000In January 1815
28,381,0001827
28,381,000182728,596,0001823
28,596,0001823£.30,488,000In January 1815
£.30,488,000In January 181542825,500,0001827 to
25,500,0001827 to24,419,0001823 to
24,419,0001823 to£.28,278,000In January 1815 to
£.28,278,000In January 1815 to
25,500,0001827 to
25,500,0001827 to24,419,0001823 to
24,419,0001823 to£.28,278,000In January 1815 to
£.28,278,000In January 1815 tol.l.l.l.427426425424 resumed.—Sir, I have moved that that part of his Majesty's Speech which refers to the state of the income and expenditure of the country should be read, not merely in compliance with the general usage which has prevailed upon the occasion of similar motions, but in order that I may introduce the proposition which I am about to make, under the highest auspices and claim for it the sanction and the recommendation of the first authority in the land. The proposition for the appointment of a finance committee is not a novel proposition. At various periods of the history of this country, committees have been appointed at the recommendation of the Crown, for the purpose of examining into the expenditure and the income of the country; and for the purpose also of submitting to this House their sentiments as to the possibility of establishing a more effectual control over that expenditure, and of making such reductions in its amount as may be deemed compatible with existing circumstances."That a Select Committee be appointed, to inquire into the State of the Public Income and Expenditure of the United Kingdom, and to consider and report to the House, what further regulations and checks it may be proper, in their opinion, to adopt, for establishing an effectual control upon all charges incurred in the receipt, custody, and application, of the Public Money; and what further measures can be adopted for reducing any part of the Public Expenditure without detriment to the Public Service."439438437436435l.l.4341,168,2601827, by
1,168,2601827, by365,8431826, by
365,8431826, by£6,140Less than those of 1825, by
£6,140Less than those of 1825, by
1,168,2601827, by
1,168,2601827, by365,8431826, by
365,8431826, by£6,140Less than those of 1825, by
£6,140Less than those of 1825, byl.l.l.l.l.1,946,000Miscellaneous
1,946,000Miscellaneous1,574,000Ordnance
1,574,000Ordnance5,995,000Navy
5,995,000Navy372,000Commissariat
372,000Commissariat292,000Militia
292,000Militia810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.
810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.£6,586,000For the Army
£6,586,000For the Army
1,946,000Miscellaneous
1,946,000Miscellaneous1,574,000Ordnance
1,574,000Ordnance5,995,000Navy
5,995,000Navy372,000Commissariat
372,000Commissariat292,000Militia
292,000Militia810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.
810,000l.l.Army Extraordinaries; including under that head, 450,000l.l.£6,586,000For the Army
£6,586,000For the Army43349,487,0001827
49,487,0001827£.49,513,000For 1826
£.49,513,000For 1826
49,487,0001827
49,487,0001827£.49,513,000For 1826
£.49,513,000For 1826l.l.l.49,581,000For 1827
49,581,000For 1827£.49,625,000For 1826, was
£.49,625,000For 1826, was
49,581,000For 1827
49,581,000For 1827£.49,625,000For 1826, was
£.49,625,000For 1826, was432l.l.l.21,144,000
21,144,000263,005,000Expenditure
263,005,000Expenditure£.284,149,000Income
£.284,149,000Income
21,144,000
21,144,000263,005,000Expenditure
263,005,000Expenditure£.284,149,000Income
£.284,149,000Incomel.l.l.l.l.l.43121,529,0001827
21,529,000182721,509,0001826
21,509,000182620,000,0001825
20,000,000182520,461,0001824
20,461,0001824£.18,477,0001823
£.18,477,0001823
21,529,0001827
21,529,000182721,509,0001826
21,509,000182620,000,0001825
20,000,000182520,461,0001824
20,461,0001824£.18,477,0001823
£.18,477,000182349,719,0001827
49,719,000182749,585,0001826
49,585,000182648,061,0001825
48,061,000182549,527,0001824
49,527,0001824£.47,692,0001823
£.47,692,0001823
49,719,0001827
49,719,000182749,585,0001826
49,585,000182648,061,0001825
48,061,000182549,527,0001824
49,527,0001824£.47,692,0001823
£.47,692,0001823l.430l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.429l.l.29,254,0001827
29,254,000182730,027,0001823
30,027,0001823£.33,679,000In January 1815
£.33,679,000In January 1815
29,254,0001827
29,254,000182730,027,0001823
30,027,0001823£.33,679,000In January 1815
£.33,679,000In January 181534,770,0001827 to
34,770,0001827 to42,209,0001823 to
42,209,0001823 to£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.
£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.
34,770,0001827 to
34,770,0001827 to42,209,0001823 to
42,209,0001823 to£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.
£.44,544,000In Jan.1815 it amounted to.l.l.28,381,0001827
28,381,000182728,596,0001823
28,596,0001823£.30,488,000In January 1815
£.30,488,000In January 1815
28,381,0001827
28,381,000182728,596,0001823
28,596,0001823£.30,488,000In January 1815
£.30,488,000In January 181542825,500,0001827 to
25,500,0001827 to24,419,0001823 to
24,419,0001823 to£.28,278,000In January 1815 to
£.28,278,000In January 1815 to
25,500,0001827 to
25,500,0001827 to24,419,0001823 to
24,419,0001823 to£.28,278,000In January 1815 to
£.28,278,000In January 1815 tol.l.l.l.427426425424Mr. Secretary Peel
446l.l.l.l.l.445l.l.l.444443l.l.442l.l.l.441440 said, that he did not rise for the purpose of offering any opposition to the motion, but he wished to put it to the right hon. gentleman, whether he could be able to carry the proposed objects into effect by the aid of one committee? He was anxious also to learn, whether the committee was to inquire into the state of the Crown lands, the hereditary revenues, and other matters upon which inquiry had been often promised, but never entered into? He was desirous at the outset to make this inquiry; for, as nearly as he could gather, the words of the present motion were the same as those for the appointment of a select committee in 1817; and yet that committee had inquired into very few of the objects for which they had been appointed. It also appeared, that none of the committees appointed had gone into all the subjects which it was said would be submitted to them; although some of them had sat for several years, and had presented ten or twelve reports. If the proposed committee were to be so long occupied, was it to have those several matters submitted to its con-
446l.l.l.l.l.445l.l.l.444443l.l.442l.l.l.441440Mr. Hume
456resign.decide,non sequitur455454453452451450 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—If, Sir, I avail myself of the opportunity, on a motion which is usually one of form, but which, on some occasions, is resorted to as the constitutional one for purposes of important communication—if I have recourse to such an extraordinary proceeding on this occasion, I can assure you, Sir, and the House, that it is with the most unfeigned reluctance that I adopt it; and I trust that ray excuse for
456resign.decide,non sequitur455454453452451450Lord Normanby
 denied that he had used the word cordially.Mr. Herries
463462461460"It is much more probable, though I have not thought it worth my while to ask for any explanation on the subject, that my right hon. friend stated, not that he had concluded any wholesale bargain with me, but that the men of whom the government is now composed are in themselves a guarantee to the public that their measures will be such as will be conducive to his majesty's honour and interests, and to the happiness of the people. That is what the right hon. gentleman said, if I am not mistaken; and not that I had given him any guarantee for the principles of the government."459"Is it to be supposed that the right hon. gentleman, to whom I understand the noble earl to allude, ever used such expressions as are ascribed to him at the Liverpool election. If I had entered into any such wholesale bargain, I should have tarnished the right hon. gentleman's fame as much as I should have disgraced my own. But if I gave a guarantee to my right hon. friend, what have I done for the other members of the government? Is there nobody else in the government but my right hon. friend? Every minister surely forms a part of it. Every one of them is equally at liberty to state his opinions upon every subject he may choose to propose for the consideration of government. I appeal to my noble friends, whether they ever belonged to a cabinet, in which questions were discussed more freely?""Could I then, when my own great measures, or those of the men with whom I had acted, were conceded, refuse my concurrence, without a compromise, to the offer which had been made me? I did not look to the right or to the left, I prepared for the best I could accomplish, and think I acted judiciously.""I was under no feeling of obligation to consult others on such an occasion provided the stipulation for the principles which I advocated was complete, and my personal honour uncommitted."458"It so happened, that the duke of Wellington, after consulting only with one individual, Mr. Peel, who possessed talents and integrity for the public service, I believe came next to myself. I will not disguise from my constituents, that when this communication was made to me, it was in most general terms. I was, in fact, merely asked if I felt any individual objection, or laboured under any particular motive or influence, to preclude me from taking any part in the ministry which the duke of Wellington was commanded to form. To an application so general I could only give a general reply. I could only state, that I was not precluded by party, or party connexions, to forego any attention to what I believed, in my own mind and judgment, to be due to the interests of my country; and that, provided the new administration were formed upon the principles which I had espoused, and which I thought indispensable to the welfare of the community, and provided also, I could see a pledge for the guarantee of the due operation of my principles, I was not deprived by any pledge of party, or engagement with others, from participating in their promotion. That was the general answer I gave to the general application I received.""Notwithstanding, however, these unfavourable contingencies which were observable in the beginning of December, it was my anxious wish to see the administration continued by the same men and on the same principles. I wished to have upheld the government in its then state; and, so dear were the principles it espoused to my own feelings, that I would rather have fallen in the attempt to reconstruct its organization, than have withheld my poor services, or have kept back on such an occasion."457.—The only purpose for which I refer to this, report is, to notice
463462461460"It is much more probable, though I have not thought it worth my while to ask for any explanation on the subject, that my right hon. friend stated, not that he had concluded any wholesale bargain with me, but that the men of whom the government is now composed are in themselves a guarantee to the public that their measures will be such as will be conducive to his majesty's honour and interests, and to the happiness of the people. That is what the right hon. gentleman said, if I am not mistaken; and not that I had given him any guarantee for the principles of the government."459"Is it to be supposed that the right hon. gentleman, to whom I understand the noble earl to allude, ever used such expressions as are ascribed to him at the Liverpool election. If I had entered into any such wholesale bargain, I should have tarnished the right hon. gentleman's fame as much as I should have disgraced my own. But if I gave a guarantee to my right hon. friend, what have I done for the other members of the government? Is there nobody else in the government but my right hon. friend? Every minister surely forms a part of it. Every one of them is equally at liberty to state his opinions upon every subject he may choose to propose for the consideration of government. I appeal to my noble friends, whether they ever belonged to a cabinet, in which questions were discussed more freely?""Could I then, when my own great measures, or those of the men with whom I had acted, were conceded, refuse my concurrence, without a compromise, to the offer which had been made me? I did not look to the right or to the left, I prepared for the best I could accomplish, and think I acted judiciously.""I was under no feeling of obligation to consult others on such an occasion provided the stipulation for the principles which I advocated was complete, and my personal honour uncommitted."458"It so happened, that the duke of Wellington, after consulting only with one individual, Mr. Peel, who possessed talents and integrity for the public service, I believe came next to myself. I will not disguise from my constituents, that when this communication was made to me, it was in most general terms. I was, in fact, merely asked if I felt any individual objection, or laboured under any particular motive or influence, to preclude me from taking any part in the ministry which the duke of Wellington was commanded to form. To an application so general I could only give a general reply. I could only state, that I was not precluded by party, or party connexions, to forego any attention to what I believed, in my own mind and judgment, to be due to the interests of my country; and that, provided the new administration were formed upon the principles which I had espoused, and which I thought indispensable to the welfare of the community, and provided also, I could see a pledge for the guarantee of the due operation of my principles, I was not deprived by any pledge of party, or engagement with others, from participating in their promotion. That was the general answer I gave to the general application I received.""Notwithstanding, however, these unfavourable contingencies which were observable in the beginning of December, it was my anxious wish to see the administration continued by the same men and on the same principles. I wished to have upheld the government in its then state; and, so dear were the principles it espoused to my own feelings, that I would rather have fallen in the attempt to reconstruct its organization, than have withheld my poor services, or have kept back on such an occasion."457Lord Normanby
476475474473472471470469468467466465464 rose, and spoke to the following effect: — Sir, whatever may be the motives which actuate the noble lord on any occasion, I am perfectly persuaded that they will be found to do him honour; and that, in the exercise of his public duty, he will be invariably guided by the purest and most laudable considerations. For myself, I feel deeply indebted to the noble lord for the step which he has this evening taken, and still more so for the manner in which he has taken it. Ever since my return from Liverpool, I have been, day after day, led to expect that an opportunity would be afforded me of submitting to the House an explanation of my conduct. What have been the circumstances which changed the intention of those who had expressed their determination to elicit that explanation, it is not for me to say. I am most grateful to the noble lord for giving me this occasion. The contrast exhibited between the manly and straight-forward course which the noble lord has pursued, and the proceedings in this House on Friday last—followed up, as those proceedings were, by an attempt out of doors, to convert them into the means of injury to my character —will not speedily be effaced from my recollection. At the same time, Sir, while I most sincerely rejoice at having
476475474473472471470469468467466465464Mr. Secretary Huskisson
 observed, that the right hon. gentleman had misunderstood him, if he supposed he meant to cast any blame upon him for his conduct in that particular.Lord Normanby
"P.S. — I take it for granted Mr. Brougham will have some comments to make on the transaction; but that, on this point, he may not proceed on wrong grounds, I wish you to communicate the contents of this letter to him.""Your's, &c. W. SHEPHERD.""Sir; on reading my Morning Chronicle this evening, it appears to me that the London reporters must have greatly misunderstood an important part of your last speech at the hustings, on the occasion of your re-election. As I stood close to you on that occasion, and attentively remarked what you said, as it was my duty to do, in the circumstances in which I was placed, I have a distinct recollection, that when you spoke of guarantees, you said you found them in the composition of the cabinet, and especially in the introduction of lord Dudley, Mr. Grant, and one more, whom I do not at this instant call to mind. Of personal guarantees, as demanded from, and given by, the duke of Wellington, you did not say one word. Accordingly, my reply to what you said was, that I doubted whether, in the composition of the cabinet, you would find sufficient support for your liberal views. Perhaps, before you receive this, you will have run the gauntlet in the House of Commons. Should it arrive in time, however, I think it but right to put it at your disposal. Ministers have sufficient to answer for, without being inconvenienced by the errors of the gentlemen of the press.481480479478477 proceeded.—The noble lord certainly said, that I made a gratuitous explanation to my constituents, and the same remark, I am sorry to say, has been made, with something of a sneer, in another place. Notwithstanding the unfeigned respect I entertain for the great constitutional learning of the distinguished individual to whom I now allude, I must confess that I retain upon this point much of what seems now-a-days to be considered absolute prejudice. It appears to me, however it may to others, that when a member of this House accepts office under the Crown, and consequently vacates his seat, and when, his seat being so vacated, he offers himself again to his constituents, and solicits their confidence, or rather a renewal of their confidence, and of the trust which they before reposed in him, it is very natural, and quite in accordance with the theory and practice of the British constitution, to make such a statement as his constituents not only have a right to demand, but as they are almost exercising a duty in demanding, when they entertain any feelings of suspicion or jealousy. The doctrines of the school which would oppose such explanations between a member and his constituents, are not yet popular in Liver
"P.S. — I take it for granted Mr. Brougham will have some comments to make on the transaction; but that, on this point, he may not proceed on wrong grounds, I wish you to communicate the contents of this letter to him.""Your's, &c. W. SHEPHERD.""Sir; on reading my Morning Chronicle this evening, it appears to me that the London reporters must have greatly misunderstood an important part of your last speech at the hustings, on the occasion of your re-election. As I stood close to you on that occasion, and attentively remarked what you said, as it was my duty to do, in the circumstances in which I was placed, I have a distinct recollection, that when you spoke of guarantees, you said you found them in the composition of the cabinet, and especially in the introduction of lord Dudley, Mr. Grant, and one more, whom I do not at this instant call to mind. Of personal guarantees, as demanded from, and given by, the duke of Wellington, you did not say one word. Accordingly, my reply to what you said was, that I doubted whether, in the composition of the cabinet, you would find sufficient support for your liberal views. Perhaps, before you receive this, you will have run the gauntlet in the House of Commons. Should it arrive in time, however, I think it but right to put it at your disposal. Ministers have sufficient to answer for, without being inconvenienced by the errors of the gentlemen of the press.481480479478477Mr. Secretary Huskisson
,.—It is quite unnecessary. I accept the right hon. gentleman's personal guarantee [a laugh].Mr. Brougham
487486485484"It cannot, of course, be forgotten, that I was a member of lord Liverpoool's cabinet, and that, in being so, I was a party to the greater part of the measures upon which it proposed to conduct the business of the present administration; that I concurred in those measures, and that, equally with others I share their full responsibility. How, thon. could I, with the least show of consistency— the slightest regard for character—depart from the maintenance and prosecution of measures to which I already stand pledged."483 —I trust, Sir, I shall hear no more after this evening of a subject in relation to which I have been clearly misrepresented. Having stated thus much on the subject of a mistaken word, and the uses that have been made of it, I am ready to own fairly, that with respect to political principles, and the measures growing out of them, from the very first, I have been under great apprehension that we (his majesty's existing government) are very likely to differ among ourselves. Gentlemen talk of the measures and principles connected with our foreign and domestic policy; but these matters are not urfrequently made the subjects of much loose and vague declamation. I acknowledge that there are certain measures and principles, in relation to which it is necessary—absolutely necessary—to have an understanding, or it is impossible for a cabinet to agree: but it appears to me, that if a fair and distinct understanding subsist between the members of a government, as to general principles, that is sufficient. Sir, I do not know what people mean by talking of the principles of our domestic and foreign policy, except in so far as the application of principles relates to measures to be adopted, in regard to foreign and domestic affairs. Of the principles we never lose sight; but their application must mainly, if it does not entirely, depend on the nature of particular circumstances and events. If I may be allowed to illustrate the point by a reference to subjects which I introduced in the course of my speech at Liverpool, I will say, that the expedition to Portugal in the last year, and our recent interference in the affairs of Greece, form parts of our foreign policy during the last eighteen months; and grow not so much out of any general system, as they proceed from the effect of necessity operating under particular circumstances. With respect to measures of domestic policy, I will take the question of the silk trade. In reference to that branch of our manufacture, I thought it desirable to assimilate its condition to the condition of the other great branches of our trade. That was the application of a general principle to a particular case; but the hon. gentlemen, late members for Lincoln and Coventry (Mr. Williams and Mr. Ellice) but not now in the House, opposed the application of a principle (from which, I believe, they were not averse in the main) in this particular
487486485484"It cannot, of course, be forgotten, that I was a member of lord Liverpoool's cabinet, and that, in being so, I was a party to the greater part of the measures upon which it proposed to conduct the business of the present administration; that I concurred in those measures, and that, equally with others I share their full responsibility. How, thon. could I, with the least show of consistency— the slightest regard for character—depart from the maintenance and prosecution of measures to which I already stand pledged."483Mr. Secretary Huskisson.
505504503502501500"My Dear Goderich:— I have as you requested in your last letter (and as I promised in my answer that I would), carefully reconsidered the subject of my letter of the 21st of December. I regret to be compelled to state, that the reconsideration. so bestowed upon it has not con
500"Jan. 7, 1828.499498"My dear Herries;—I received your letter of the 21st, and I agree with you, that the time is at hand when it will become necessary to consider the direction of the Finance Committee in all its bearings, with a view to the public good, and the satisfaction of all parties. When Mr. Huskisson returns to town, this matter must be brought to a final issue. I owe it, however, to myself to say, that you have greatly misconceived the degree in which I was a party to the nomination of lord Althorp to fill the chair of that committee. I thought I had sufficiently explained to you verbally, that I conceived the communication to be nothing more than casual, and I regret that it was made. When Mr. Tierney suggested to me the appointment of lord Althorp, I said it was a proposition that ought to be well considered; but, from my regard for the individual, and my old friendship towards him, I was disposed towards it. The matter ended here. When Mr. Tierney afterwards mentioned the circumstance again, I said, that if the members of the House of Commons inclined to his nomination, I should not object; but that it could not be acted on without a consultation with the government. When I subsequently understood from Mr. Huskisson, that a sort of communication had been made to lord Althorp on the subject, my first inquiry was, as to whether you had been spoken to on the subject, and to my great surprise, I was given to understand you never had. I then thought it right to state, that you were a party to whom direct reference should be made. With respect to the latter part of your letter, in which you place your office in my hands, I cannot conceive that you have made out a case to justify you in so proceeding; but I hope that you will take no steps until an opportunity has been given for bringing the whole matter under full consideration."497Now, I ask, was there any thing in this letter calculated to defeat the object of the committee—to embarrass the proceedings of the government—or to push matters to that extreme which defied all possibility of arrangement? It was competent to the noble lord to deny any thing which I had assumed as fact, if the noble lord had reason to believe that I was mistaken. It was competent to the noble lord to object to any principle which I had laid down, if the noble lord was prepared to contend that such principle was erroneous. Nothing can be more obvious than this—if the principle was not sound, I might, I ought, to have been told so; and the other principle, whatever it might be, to which a preference was given in the cabinet, dis-
497"Whether this be a proper view of the subject, and whether, if it be so, you could yet proceed upon such a principle, you are best able to judge. I do not feel that I could act in it upon any other. In order, therefore, to relieve you from any difficulty, as connected with my situation, respecting the course which you may deem it expedient to pursue, I beg to assure you, that if by putting my office into other hands you can more satisfactorily execute this difficult measure, you may command my most ready and cheerful resignation of it. I place it (and I beg it to be understood as being done in the most friendly manner) entirely at your disposal."496"What has hitherto been done in this matter has taken place without consultation or communication with me, although it would seem to belong principally to my department of the public business. A negotiation has been carried on, and completed by Mr. Tierney, with your sanction and that of Mr. Huskisson, for the nomination of the chairman of the committee. The government is, I presume, fully committed to the individual fixed upon for the purpose, and to the noble House, of which he is a member; and this proceeding, as I am given to understand, has been adopted with a view, in a great measure,
496"It would, I believe, naturally be my duty to bring that subject under the consideration of the Cabinet; but after what has passed (and I advert to it with much pain), I feel that it is not at present in my hands. I must, therefore, learn from you, as head of the government, what is the course intended to be pursued for the formation of this committee, and the regulation of its proceedings."My dear Goderich;—It is now full time that some further steps should be taken with respect to the committee of finance."21st Dec, 1827.495494493492491490489488 said:—I rise, Sir, with the most unfeigned embarrassment, and with the most unqualified sense of the difficulty of the task, to address the House. I have no intention of entering into so large an explanation as that into which my right hon. friend has entered, for circumstances do not call upon me to do so; but I feel myself bound to obey the call which the House has made upon me, and to offer an explanation on some part of my public conduct which appears to some individuals to be compromised in certain important transactions which have recently taken place. Under ordinary circumstances I should certainly feel inclined to except to such a call; but as it involves consequences most important to my character, both as a public man and a private individual, I am inclined to depart from the rule which I would lay down for the general guidance of public men, and to offer an explanation, which, after all, is an explanation which affects two private individuals rather than the public at large. I hold, that to make lightly such disclosures as I am now imperatively called upon to make, is a most pernicious practice to which public men ought not to submit; inasmuch as appeals to the public can never be made by public men, without their suffering a diminution of respect in the minds of the people of the country. I think it necessary to say thus much as a justification for myself in making a statement which bears a relation to certain recent transactions in the cabinet. Such statements, in addition to their tendency to lower, in the general estimation, those who make them, are productive of this further evil, that they have a tendency to sow among those between whom concord, harmony, and union should prevail, if the business of the public is to be faithfully and efficaciously discharged, sentiments of discord and disunion, and to perpetuate in their breasts feelings of mistrust and jealousy, which are as injurious to the public, as they are painful to the individuals who entertain them.505504503502501500"My Dear Goderich:— I have as you requested in your last letter (and as I promised in my answer that I would), carefully reconsidered the subject of my letter of the 21st of December. I regret to be compelled to state, that the reconsideration. so bestowed upon it has not con
500"Jan. 7, 1828.499498"My dear Herries;—I received your letter of the 21st, and I agree with you, that the time is at hand when it will become necessary to consider the direction of the Finance Committee in all its bearings, with a view to the public good, and the satisfaction of all parties. When Mr. Huskisson returns to town, this matter must be brought to a final issue. I owe it, however, to myself to say, that you have greatly misconceived the degree in which I was a party to the nomination of lord Althorp to fill the chair of that committee. I thought I had sufficiently explained to you verbally, that I conceived the communication to be nothing more than casual, and I regret that it was made. When Mr. Tierney suggested to me the appointment of lord Althorp, I said it was a proposition that ought to be well considered; but, from my regard for the individual, and my old friendship towards him, I was disposed towards it. The matter ended here. When Mr. Tierney afterwards mentioned the circumstance again, I said, that if the members of the House of Commons inclined to his nomination, I should not object; but that it could not be acted on without a consultation with the government. When I subsequently understood from Mr. Huskisson, that a sort of communication had been made to lord Althorp on the subject, my first inquiry was, as to whether you had been spoken to on the subject, and to my great surprise, I was given to understand you never had. I then thought it right to state, that you were a party to whom direct reference should be made. With respect to the latter part of your letter, in which you place your office in my hands, I cannot conceive that you have made out a case to justify you in so proceeding; but I hope that you will take no steps until an opportunity has been given for bringing the whole matter under full consideration."497Now, I ask, was there any thing in this letter calculated to defeat the object of the committee—to embarrass the proceedings of the government—or to push matters to that extreme which defied all possibility of arrangement? It was competent to the noble lord to deny any thing which I had assumed as fact, if the noble lord had reason to believe that I was mistaken. It was competent to the noble lord to object to any principle which I had laid down, if the noble lord was prepared to contend that such principle was erroneous. Nothing can be more obvious than this—if the principle was not sound, I might, I ought, to have been told so; and the other principle, whatever it might be, to which a preference was given in the cabinet, dis-
497"Whether this be a proper view of the subject, and whether, if it be so, you could yet proceed upon such a principle, you are best able to judge. I do not feel that I could act in it upon any other. In order, therefore, to relieve you from any difficulty, as connected with my situation, respecting the course which you may deem it expedient to pursue, I beg to assure you, that if by putting my office into other hands you can more satisfactorily execute this difficult measure, you may command my most ready and cheerful resignation of it. I place it (and I beg it to be understood as being done in the most friendly manner) entirely at your disposal."496"What has hitherto been done in this matter has taken place without consultation or communication with me, although it would seem to belong principally to my department of the public business. A negotiation has been carried on, and completed by Mr. Tierney, with your sanction and that of Mr. Huskisson, for the nomination of the chairman of the committee. The government is, I presume, fully committed to the individual fixed upon for the purpose, and to the noble House, of which he is a member; and this proceeding, as I am given to understand, has been adopted with a view, in a great measure,
496"It would, I believe, naturally be my duty to bring that subject under the consideration of the Cabinet; but after what has passed (and I advert to it with much pain), I feel that it is not at present in my hands. I must, therefore, learn from you, as head of the government, what is the course intended to be pursued for the formation of this committee, and the regulation of its proceedings."My dear Goderich;—It is now full time that some further steps should be taken with respect to the committee of finance."21st Dec, 1827.495494493492491490489488Mr. Herries
, in explanation, said, he thought it right in reply to that part of the right hon. gentleman's observation, which related to a conversation on the 29th of December, in the cabinet room, to state, that he then supposed the right hon. gentleman to be acquainted with what had passed; and that his address to him had appeared as extraordinary to him, as his had to the right hon. gentleman. He added, that in using the words "I know," with reference to the intention of making the difference between him and the right hon. Secretary for the colonies the means of dissolving the government, he meant to say, that he drew the positive conclusion from the circumstance that it must be so.Mr. Herries
517 said, that, with all the reluctance which he felt at intruding himself upon the notice of the House, he felt it his duty to say one word upon this question. The noble lord in the course of his opening speech that night, having unnecessarily and invidiously contrasted the foreign policy of Mr. Canning with that of his noble predecessor, he hoped the House would excuse him if he set him right upon that subject. It did not seem to him to be necessary to Mr. Canning's reputation to contrast his policy with that of his predecessor, and in the way in which the subject had been introduced, injustice was done to both. The noble lord had said, that he had heard with surprise that Mr. Canning found the line of foreign' policy already marked out, in a note accidentally discovered in some portfolio, and which never would have come to light;
517Colonel Wood
524"laudatores temporis acti,"523522à, priori521—"Cut placet impares
Formas atque animos sub juga ahenea
Sævo mittere cum joco."520519518 said:—After the explanations already given by the three right hon. gentlemen who have addressed the House —competent as they, from their immediate connection with the events to which these explanations referred, were — the House would doubtless regard it as unseasonable, if not impertinent, if I were to make any comments upon the dissolution of the late cabinet. If, on the breaking up of that government, there were any plots, intrigues, machinations, or counter-machinations— if by any combination of circumstances results were developed unexpected and inconsecutive—if, upon any occasion, dissensions of two right hon. gentlemen who now sit together in the same cabinet were or were not made a means of excluding certain right hon. and noble friends of mine from office—if, in fine, any thing had happened in these transactions beyond the plain and straight-forward course which is already known to the public, and the world at large, my subordinate situation in the government exempts me from any knowledge or responsibility for them. My duty, therefore, upon this occasion, lies within a small compass, and I think I shall have complied with all that the House can expect of me when I state—and that I shall do as concisely as I possibly can—the reasons why, with reference to the change of principles of the government, I have been compelled—reluctantly I acknowledge—
524"laudatores temporis acti,"523522à, priori521—"Cut placet impares
Formas atque animos sub juga ahenea
Sævo mittere cum joco."520519518Mr. Stanley
527526"My dear Herries—The more I reflect upon this unfortunate question respecting the finance committee, the more I am convinced that the view which you have taken up is founded on a misconception, both of the circumstances which took place at the end of November, and of the consequences that would result from placing lord Althorp in the chair of that committee. I am quite convinced that there was no intention whatever of treating you with disrespect, or of exposing you to the embarrassment of not being in your proper place, in all that relates to a matter so closely connected with your department. It is certainly unfortunate, then, that any thing whatever was said to lord Althorp, before it was settled that something should be said; but it by no means follows from that circumstance, that the government ought to be placed in jeopardy, if it can be avoided, especially at a moment so peculiarly inconvenient to the king's service, and to the public interest, as the present must necessarily be. Now, as to the appointment itself, I must say, that it appears to me that you greatly over-rate the objections and difficulties." [He would not read the noble lord's argument, as he did not think it necessary to the purpose for which he produced this letter]—" I
526"January 4, 1828.525"In reference to the conversation I had with you this morning, on the subject of what may pass in the House of Commons to-night, I venture to rely on your kind and friendly feelings towards me, in case any thing should be said which may seem to require explanation on my part, and which, in consequence of my communication with you, you may have it in your power to explain. I certainly have no desire that any unnecessary explanation should be given, and should be particularly sorry to impose such a task upon you, or in any degree to fetter your opinion on the general question; but you may be enabled to render me an essential service, and I trust you may do it, if necessary, without compromising yourself or any one else.""February 18,1828. said, he did not rise to obtrude his opinions, but he had been accidentally placed in a situation of responsibility, from which he would not shrink. The noble lord at the head of the late administration had sent for him that morning, requesting some conversation on the subject about to be discussed in the House of Commons this evening. Lord Goderich had subsequently written a letter to him, which, for his own justification, he would take the liberty of reading:—
527526"My dear Herries—The more I reflect upon this unfortunate question respecting the finance committee, the more I am convinced that the view which you have taken up is founded on a misconception, both of the circumstances which took place at the end of November, and of the consequences that would result from placing lord Althorp in the chair of that committee. I am quite convinced that there was no intention whatever of treating you with disrespect, or of exposing you to the embarrassment of not being in your proper place, in all that relates to a matter so closely connected with your department. It is certainly unfortunate, then, that any thing whatever was said to lord Althorp, before it was settled that something should be said; but it by no means follows from that circumstance, that the government ought to be placed in jeopardy, if it can be avoided, especially at a moment so peculiarly inconvenient to the king's service, and to the public interest, as the present must necessarily be. Now, as to the appointment itself, I must say, that it appears to me that you greatly over-rate the objections and difficulties." [He would not read the noble lord's argument, as he did not think it necessary to the purpose for which he produced this letter]—" I
526"January 4, 1828.525"In reference to the conversation I had with you this morning, on the subject of what may pass in the House of Commons to-night, I venture to rely on your kind and friendly feelings towards me, in case any thing should be said which may seem to require explanation on my part, and which, in consequence of my communication with you, you may have it in your power to explain. I certainly have no desire that any unnecessary explanation should be given, and should be particularly sorry to impose such a task upon you, or in any degree to fetter your opinion on the general question; but you may be enabled to render me an essential service, and I trust you may do it, if necessary, without compromising yourself or any one else.""February 18,1828.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 — "Mr. Huskisson, of course."Mr. Herries.
551 continued. He would not moot the point with the hon. gentleman; for the principle was that which he desired to go upon. Was there never to be an end of the desire to make every transient hostility interminable? The noble lord at the head of the Foreign Affairs had treated this dangerous and unreasonable desire as it deserved, when he had spoken of the praise which was due to Mr. Canning, for having forgotten his personal difference with the late marquis of Londonderry, the instant that the country seemed likely to be assisted by their union. For himself, he could only say, that if it was a point of honour to recollect one's own quarrels, or the quarrels of one's friends, he thought it an act incomparably more noble, to forget those animosities when the public interest would be served by burying them in oblivion. He hoped, therefore, most sincerely, that there would be an end of these demands for explanation, and of explanation itself, as of every other circumstance which could tend to impede that cordial union for the promotion of the public welfare, which he was sure, if it was permitted to do so, would distinguish the conduct of the present ministry. If government was allowed to take its course, as much unanimity and as much exertion would mark the administration of the duke of Wellington, as had distinguished any ministry that had ever existed in the country; certainly as much as could belong to any ministry capable of being formed in the existing state of parties. He trusted that what had been done already, since the business of the session had commenced, had evinced at least a disposition, from which no evil to the country would be expected. As far as he was concerned, his object should be to do that which he had recommended; namely, to forget all differences which had existed, and to ask only, how far the expectations of the public from the government as it stood was likely to be realized. He had never sought to be recalled to office. His being replaced in it was neither of his asking nor of his particular desire: but, since he was in office, he would steadily perform that which he believed to be his duty: he would execute the trust which, in taking place, he had contracted with the Crown and with the nation; especially aiming to promote the union of the minis-
551Mr. Secretary Peel
552 rose to explain. He said, he trusted that his peculiar situation would excuse his intrusion upon the House for a few moments. The declaration of the hon. member opposite, as to what he had heard of his pledge not to join the opponents of Mr. Canning—those words of his which the hon. member had converted into a pledge, and which he could only have heard by some scandalous violation of private confidence—had been so much talked of and so grossly misrepresented, that he would state what they really were. He had never uttered any thing like the words that were imputed to him; namely, "that he would never again take office with those who had persecuted Mr. Canning to the death"—to the death, or to destruction; for it mattered little what the precise expression was which was thus sought to be put into his mouth. What he had said was this—when he returned to England in August, he had used the expression, that "his wounds were too
552Mr. Secretary Huskisson
554553 said, that at so late an hour he should not be suspected of intending to trespass long upon the patience of the House. Indeed, the subject in debate was one upon which an immense deal of what was needless had already been said, and upon which it might have been sufficient, by taking up the question at the right point, to have said very little. The right hon. gentleman, the late chancellor of the Exchequer, had explained to the House every thing but the short facts which it was desirous to have explained. As to the few material points which had, been suggested by the noble opener of the
554553Mr. Brougham
 said, the hon. and learned, gentleman was in error. He had used no such terms, nor any like them. He had not spoken of any cabal.Mr. Herries
562561560559558557556555 said, that he himself did not recollect the word "cabal.:" it had been recollected for him by an hon.
562561560559558557556555Mr. Brougham
" laudator temporis acti," de facto549548547"My dear Lord Chancellor,—To prevent any misconception, allow me to commit to writing the substance of what I stated to you this morning. I must candidly say, that I wish to see the present government resting on the same footing as it did before lord Liverpool's misfortune. As regards myself, I am content with my situation, and wish for no change; and, with the single exception of the difference of opinion respecting the Catholic question, I am ready to act with them in every other matter. I can assure you, that I esteem and respect them, and should consider it a great misfortune for his majesty to be deprived of the services of any of them, particularly of the services of Mr. Canning. I can say with the greatest truth, that with the single exception of the Catholic question, my opinions are in accordance with theirs."546545544 said, he did not rise to offer any thing in explanation of the causes of the dissolution of the late administration. Of those causes he knew absolutely nothing; and he was never aware of the existence of the correspondence which had been laid before them that night until he had heard it read. Knowing nothing, then, of those causes beyond what every gentleman knew who read the public papers, no consideration on earth should induce him to enter upon a discussion of them, or to pronounce any opinion. upon them. He could not proceed further without noticing one or two expressions in the speech of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, as to the mysterious, incorporeal, and incomprehensible, being of which he had spoken. He did not know where it existed. He had, for some years, been in the service of his majesty, and he never was aware that any of the measures of the government had been thwarted by this incomprehensible being, nor had he ever found that the other more substantial personage had interfered, in the way stated by the hon. gentleman, with the financial affairs of the country. As he was perfectly ignorant of the existence of any species of influence like that alluded to by the hon. member, he could not afford him any information upon that point.—He was not aware that there was any explanation required by that House from him, regarding the circumstances attendant upon his return to the office which he had the honour to fill. He was ready to answer any question which might be put to him respecting the circumstances and reasons which had induced him to join the present administration. He was willing to state every thing that was material, and should any omission be pointed out to him, he would gladly supply it. Upon the night of the 9th of January, while then residing in Sussex, he received at midnight a letter from his grace the duke of Wellington, stating, that he had been commissioned by his majesty to form a new ministry, and requesting that he would, without delay, return to London, as his grace was anxious to confer with him in the first instance, upon the subject. He left the place where he was residing that night, and arrived in London early on the following morning. He waited
" laudator temporis acti," de facto549548547"My dear Lord Chancellor,—To prevent any misconception, allow me to commit to writing the substance of what I stated to you this morning. I must candidly say, that I wish to see the present government resting on the same footing as it did before lord Liverpool's misfortune. As regards myself, I am content with my situation, and wish for no change; and, with the single exception of the difference of opinion respecting the Catholic question, I am ready to act with them in every other matter. I can assure you, that I esteem and respect them, and should consider it a great misfortune for his majesty to be deprived of the services of any of them, particularly of the services of Mr. Canning. I can say with the greatest truth, that with the single exception of the Catholic question, my opinions are in accordance with theirs."546545544Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he would take occasion to observe that he entirely concurred in the prayer of the petition, more especially in that part of it which referred to the practice of requiring sacramental tests. He regretted that it would be impossible for him to attend in his place when the motion, of which notice had been given by a noble lord, would come before the House; consequently, he should not be able to give the proposition for the repeal of the Corporation and Test acts that support, to which he considered it entitled, and which it should otherwise receive at his hands.—He would therefore avail himself of the present opportunity, of expressing in a few words, his opinions upon the subject, and the reasons which induced him to entertain them. He was aware, that in so doing, he might be accused of pursuing an irregular course; but he thought that every individual having the honour of a seat in that House, in such a case, was bound to consult the dictates of his own feelings, and more particularly when he represented a large body of people. It had been said, that the law in question constituted a bulwark of the church; but he was of a different opinion; and as a warm friend and sincere admirer of the discipline and doctrines of the church of England, he was decidedly opposed to these Tests, and thought it most desirable to repeal them.Mr. Liddell
540539 rose to exculpate his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, from the blame of not having before given an explanation, and professed himself ready, to take that blame on himself—if blame attached to any person. On the return of his right hon. friend to town, he conveyed to him his belief, that it was the intention' of the gentlemen opposite, to put some questions to him on the Monday following. On Monday his right hon. friend attended in his place, when it was understood that those gentlemen meant to postpone putting their questions till the motion for a Committee of Supply on Wednesday. It was notorious, not only that his right hon. friend did attend in his place that evening, but that he was ready to give every information, and was anxious he should be called on to give it; but when the time came for appointing the Committee of Supply, the intention of questioning his right hon. friend was postponed till the appointment of the Committee of Finance on Friday. His right hon. friend came down to the House that night with the intention of
540539Mr. Littleton
507506 said, he felt it necessary to observe in answer to what had fallen from his right hon. friend, who had alluded to him as wishing formally to originate a debate of this kind, that he had harboured no such intention, that he had felt no desire to bring a charge against any one. But, knowing that explanations would be called for, and feeling anxious to be present when the subject was brought forward, he merely asked his right hon. friend on what day he would take his seat, as it would be inconvenient for him to attend on the Friday, as he was about to go to Brighton. This he told his right hon. friend; but as to originating any debate, he had not the least idea of doing so.—He should now state a very few facts to the House, facts with which he was intimately connected. The matter had been brought to such a pitch by the two right hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House, I that it might appear malicious in him if he did not come forward. Part of what they had advanced was accurately stated; but their statement was not altogether accurate. It was perfectly true that, early in the month of November, he did suggest to his noble friend, lord Goderich, the propriety of nominating another noble friend, lord Althorp, to the situation of chairman in the Finance Committee. He had taken this step solely for the purpose of strengthening the government; for he thought it a matter of great importance that, in an inquiry of so extensive a nature, they should avail themselves of the assistance of one of the most respectable and intelligent noblemen in the kingdom. Now, when the right hon. gentleman, who spoke last, said, that he should have selected for that situation a person who was not of any party, he begged leave to observe, that he had done so; for the noble lord had never given in his adhesion to the late government; he had never declared that he would support it; all he had said was, that, if the measures proposed by that government met his views, then he would afford it his assistance. The answer of lord Goderich to this suggestion was, that he thought most highly of lord Althorp; that in the early part of his life, he was in habits of intimacy with that nobleman, and that nothing would
507506Mr. Tierney
516515514513512511510509508 said he would leave out the cordiality. He then produced a list of members of that House taken from all sides, and including seventy-five or seventy-six names, from which he told his right hon. friend, he might, if convenient, form the select committee of finance. To show that his feeling with respect to the appointment of the committee was not narrow or contracted, he begged to observe, that there was not the name of a single member of the committee which had been formed, that was not to be found in his list. That conversation occupied but a short time; perhaps half an hour. He then left town for Brighton; and, such was the conviction on his mind that no difference of opinion existed, that if, on the road, he had been questioned by any political friend, he would have said, "Every thing is settled; for I have with me the premier and the chancellor of the Exchequer." It was not till the 1st of December that he received the letter which had been alluded to by his right hon. friend; but that letter did not even mention the name of the chancellor of the Exchequer, much less did it advert to his views or feelings. It came entirely from his right hon. friend, as a suggestion of his own. He there stated, that it would prove inconvenient, if lists of those who were intended to be placed on the committee were shown about; and he expressed a wish that no notice of the list should be taken to lord Althorp himself. He was desirous that the matter should not be noticed until they were nearer the meeting of parliament. That letter gave him no information whatever, as to the sentiments entertained by the right hon. gentleman who spoke last. Although it subsequently appeared to have been written in consequence of information
516515514513512511510509508Mr. Tierney
 commenced by alluding to a passage in one of the letters read by Mr. Herries, and addressed to lord Goderich, in which that right hon. gentleman expressed a hope, that his lordship's administration would stand, and that the country would not be deprived of the services of their mutual friend. Now, he wished to know who that mutual friend was?Mr. T. Duncombe
543"At whose soft nod the streams of honour flow, Whose smiles all place and patronage bestow."542541 then wished to know, how it came to pass, that the right hon. gentleman should have informed the House, that it was for the first time that night he had ever heard of the resignation, or intended resignation, of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, although allusion was manifestly made to the circumstance in several places in those letters? The noble lord, lately at the head of the administration, had, in another place, given what was called a very fair account of the early stage of the disorder which had proved fatal to the cabinet; but he should have explained why the head
543"At whose soft nod the streams of honour flow, Whose smiles all place and patronage bestow."542541Mr. Duncombe
550 said, "No." He had merely said that which was the fact; namely, that the right hon. gentleman had declared he never would act with those
550Mr. T. Duncombe
 here intimated, across the table, that he had neither sanctioned nor corrected any report of his Speech at Liverpool.Mr. Huskisson
—I cordially concurred in it.Mr. Huskisson.
531 said, he could not feel himself at liberty to place any confidence in a government, which contained among its leading members, men so strongly pledged to oppose Catholic emancipation, as his right hon. friend the Secretary for the Home Department. He recollected very well that the right hon. gentleman stated, that his principal ground for refusing to remain in office under the late Mr. Canning, was his advocacy of that question, as the head of the government; and he recollected equally well, that the right hon. gentleman declared, that if that question was acceded to by any government of which he was a member, he should feel bound to retire instantly from office. If, then, the right hon. gentleman held those opinions, must it not be supposed that they were, in some measure, the tenure of office, and that the opinions of the head of the government would influence all the members of that government? He had held office for sixteen years under lord Liverpool, and yet there was no opinion entertained of the Catholic question, by the members of that cabinet, which could lead to such an effect upon those connected with the government. Was it not plain, however, that the declared opinions of the head of a government, that he held his office by-hostility to the Catholic claims, must affect the subordinate members of that government; and that all its supporters would either have the zeal of their opposition strengthened, or their warmth in the cause of emancipation weakened, by the declaration that resistance to the claims of the Catholics was one of the principles of the government? Upon these grounds, and from no disrespect to his right hon. friend, whose talents and abilities he knew and appreciated, he could not support the government, and must look at all its movements with a distrustful eye. With regard to the question which had been agitated that night, he certainly must say, that, admiring as he did the genius and talent, and cherishing the memory, of Mr. Canning, he did look upon the construction of the new government with very mixed feelings. Some of those feelings arose from the opposition— the personal opposition—which had been offered to that great man's government last year; and the others originated in the suspicion, that there might have been some of
531Sir G. Warrender
530529528 said, that as his name had been so repeatedly brought forward in the present discussion, he should feel himself guilty of disrespect to the House, if he did not state shortly the very little part which he had personally had in the transaction principally in question. But before he entered into that explanation he begged to assure the right hon. the master of the Mint, that he had never, for one moment, conceived that that right hon. gentleman was influenced by any personal grounds in objecting to his nomination as chairman of the finance committee. He was quite satisfied that the right hon. gentleman had not acted from any impulse of which he had a right to complain. The right hon. gentleman and his right hon. friend had stated
530529528Lord Althorp
533532 said, that if he could agree with the hon. member opposite, respecting the conversation which had taken place that night—if he could see nothing in the present debate but the gratification of an idle curiosity, he would admit that the House had spent a great many hours to very little purpose. But, when he considered the disclosures which had been made; and when he reflected that it was of the last importance, that the characters of men employed in high official situations should be rightly and thoroughly understood, he could not regret the time that had been bestowed on the inquiry. With respect to what had been stated by the right hon. the master of the Mint, he was free to confess, that that right hon. gentleman, in many parts of his speech, had made out a good case for himself. But, at the same time, the right hon. gentleman must give him leave to express his fears,
533532Lord Milton
536535534 said, he had no wish to
536535534Lord Morpeth
538537 said, that his right hon. friend, the Secretary for the Colonies, having appealed to him to confirm the correctness of some parts of the statement which he had made, he had great pleasure in doing so. Of some of the facts he was, as his right hon. friend had truly said, cognizant; and, in respect of these, he was able to bear his most willing testimony. Much discussion had arisen in respect of the principles upon which his noble friend in another House, his right hon. friend near him, and himself, had consented to join the present administration. It had been attempted to be shewn, that they could not have been justified in so joining the new government, unless they had previously obtained sufficient assurance and guarantee, as to the nature of the measures in which they might be called on to concur; and his right hon. friend, in particular, had been accused of abandoning one party in order to join another hostile to his own views of foreign and commercial policy. Now, looking either to their own situation, or to the character of those members of the government with whom they had to deal, it must surely be manifest to the House, that no such stipulations as those suggested that evening, could have been, for one moment, proposed or entertained. But, as had been already observed by his right hon. friend, he and his noble and right hon. friend felt it to be their duty to the public, to parliament, and to themselves, to ascertain, by the most direct and explicit means, what were the opinions and views of the individuals whom they were so invited to join, before they agreed to become constituent members of the government about to be formed. When application, for example, was first made to him, the only answer he could give to a proposal, general in its nature, was, that he should wish, in the first instance, to
538537Lord Palmerston
572 addressed the House for the first time. He said it was desirable that the fullest information should be given on every subject connected with the distresses of Ireland, and the manifold evils which grew out of those distresses. Things could not go on in the way in which they now were in Ireland; and every occasion should be taken both "in season and out of season," of expatiating on the wrongs of that country, and the urgent necessity of redressing them. He could not, therefore, concur in the observation of the hon. baronet, that these petitions should be presented in silence.
572Mr. Wallace
573 said, that informers were
573Mr. Baring
 was of opinion, that several provisions of the act were very objectionable. It seemed to him that it must have been passed without the legislature having given due consideration to the state of that country. He would not set up the opinion of any man, however well informed, against a proof of practical inconvenience; and it seemed to him that the practical inconveniences resulting from this act were numerous.Mr. Wallace
583582habeas corpus.581580579578577576 rose, in pursuance of the instructions of the Committee, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to Amend the Law for the Regulation of Lunatic Asylums. At the latter end of the last session, he had obtained a committee to inquire into the state of the Lunatic Asylums in the neighbourhood of the metropolis. That committee had been attended very diligently by the members, and the result of the evidence was such as fully justified him in every assertion he had made in moving for it. He would venture to repeat what he had before said on this subject; namely, that in the present state of the law, an individual possessing a great income might, with much more ease than the House could suppose, be imprisoned on the false pretence of insanity, at the instance of some person acting from malicious or interested motives. Whoever had read the report of the committee would see it perfectly established in evidence, that there was a great deal too much facility in granting certificates to the keepers of Lunatic Asylums. The only provision of the law against the false imprisonment of any individual, under the plea of insanity, was, that the keeper of a lunatic hospital could not receive any person as a lunatic into his establishment, without an accompanying certificate, signed by a physician, surgeon, or apothecary; and he begged the House to observe, that the term apothecary was, in this act, interpreted to mean merely a seller of drugs; so that any dealer in drugs had the right of signing a certificate, consigning any person to imprisonment whom he deemed to be insane. Nay, the very apprentice of this man, as soon as his indentures had expired, might, by his signature to a certificate, consign any person, under the pretence of insanity, to all the miseries of the mad-house. This certificate was granted previously to the person being received into this shocking receptacle of deranged humanity; so that it might sometimes happen, that this ignorant practitioner would see a person labouring under the delirium of a fever, or the hallucination occasioned by opium, and grant a certificate under which the unfortunate sufferer might, for months afterwards, remain immured amidst the horrors of a mad-house. There could be no doubt that it was the business of the legislature to prevent, as far as possible,
583582habeas corpus.581580579578577576Mr. Robert Gordon
584 seconded the motion; but his lordship spoke in so low a tone, that he was nearly inaudible in the gallery.
584Lord Ashley
585 said, that he did not think that the hon. gentleman had done justice to the feelings of the House, when he had supposed that his motion would be treated with the slightest inattention; for he was sure that it must not only be impressed with the importance of the question, but also feel grateful to the hon. gentleman for having taken it up; especially as he must have devoted his time to it from a feeling of pure philanthropy; and he thought that a more important subject could not have been chosen, though it was not one calculated for display. During the summer, he had paid some attention to the report that had been made by the committee; and though he had not himself taken any part in the present bill, he trusted that the hon. gentleman would introduce it on such a principle that it would execute itself; for, unless that should be the case, there would be danger that, in the course of fifteen or twenty years, when the public attention was no longer excited, the same abuses as those now complained of would creep in. There could not be a question, that unless the asylums for pauper lunatics were well conducted, they would be a curse rather than a blessing; and that it would be infinitely better to have none at all, than such as would only offer temptations to send unfortunate creatures to them. There were cases in which the patient was merely somewhat troublesome, and it was much better that such as these should be abroad; it being preferable to leave them in the custody of their relations, than to lock them up in mad-houses. That mildness of treatment might produce the best effects was to be seen from the manner in which the house in St. George's fields was conducted. Patients had been removed thither, after being chained to the wall for nine years at the other place, and brought to quiet and tranquillity by the pursuing of a milder course. Unless, therefore, these asylums were well regulated, they were the greatest curses that could exist. But he wished to suggest to the hon. gentleman, that there might be danger in the
585Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he proposed that they should be appointed annually.Mr. R. Gordon
 was afraid that the old members would be sure to be re-appointed, unless it was positively enacted that new physicians and visitors should be appointed twice a year.Mr. Peel
 said, it was the object of his bill to place the matter entirely under the direction of the Secretary of State for the Home Department.Mr. R. Gordon
 panegyrized the Landlord and Tenant bill, which, he contended, was calculated to produce great benefit to Ireland. One great benefit which would arise from it was, that it would prevent that under-letting of small portions of land, which had been found so injurious.Mr. Brownlow
 said, that the law upon this subject was extremely oppressive to the population of the town which he represented. He thought it a severe hardship that the Stamp-office should advertize for informers in the manner which they notoriously did. He hoped the legislature would direct its attention to the subject, in reference to which he had some petitions to present.Mr. Sykes
574 thought that the super-
574General Hart
 thought it would be too much to say that the misery to which Ireland was reduced by the existence of her large unemployed population, was to be traced to this act. The House ought to take into their consideration the best means of redressing the evils under which that population suffered for want of employment: and they would then be conferring a real benefit on Ireland.Mr. G. Moore
 concurred in opinion, that these small duties on stamps were unproductive to the revenue, and extremely vexatious on the poorer classes. He considered them more vexatious in their operation than the Salt-tax. One of the hardships was, that the Stamp-office hired informers, to discover those who infringed the Statute.Mr. Bright
 presented a petition from Waterford against the Sub-letting Act. He thought it might be amended although it was grounded on a right principle.Mr. Villiers Stuart
 was not opposed to the principle of the Landlord and Tenant bill, but he thought time ought to be given to the people of Ireland to become acquainted with the nature of its operation. With respect to emigration, he for one should oppose himself to the raising of a loan of a million, as had been recommended, for the purpose of sending eighty thousand of the Irish people to Canada. Remedies of a different nature ought to be provided for the evils existing in that unhappy country.Mr. J. Grattan
 said, he had seen many useful measures carried, and many injurious acts got rid of, by means of the harangues of which the hon. member complained.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he differed from the learned gentleman respecting the inconveniences to be suffered from this act, and must put a different construction upon its clauses.Mr. L. Foster
d.s.l.l.l. presented a petition from Brechin, complaining of the Two-penny Stamp Duty, which brought an inconsiderable revenue, was unequal in its operation, and attended with vexatious litigation. The petitioners also complained of the legacy duty, which was attended in its operation with great inequality and hardship. When a poor person died—a person, for instance, who might not have more than 20d.s.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
, in presenting three petitions from the county of Cavan, praying for Catholic Emancipation, took occasion to enlarge upon the folly of continuing the distinctions which arise from religious opinions.Mr. Hume
 said, there never was an act for which there had been so unanimous and long-continued a call as for some measure of this nature. Let hon. gentlemen read all the volumes written on the condition of Ireland, statistical and political; let them read all the various, able, and elaborate, speeches delivered on the condition of that country; let them read all the ample minutes of inquiry made before committees of both Houses, and they would find that the attention of parliament had been most peculiarly directed to the consideration of this practice of sub-letting, and of minutely sub-dividing, land. There could be no doubt it had originated chiefly in the circumstances of the country; and its abuses had been greatly aggravated, by the causes which had been adverted to. Nor could it be doubted that it was one of the great sources of the miseries of the unemployed population of that country. Still, it must be admitted, that great and sudden changes could not be safely made in matters deeply affecting the mass of the people. It was impossible to bring them over suddenly to changes in their laws, however pernicious in their principle or results. Any attempt to interfere with those feelings and habits, would necessarily be attended with considerable murmuring and discontent. He should be most happy in taking an opportunity of fully considering the subject. If it was possible to make any modification of the provisions of this act perfectly consistent with its main principle and object, it would be the duty of parliament to do so.Mr. W. Lamb
 said, that when he was younger he had paid much attention to this subject, and had visited all the madhouses round London, by which he had been eye-witness of the great abuses practised. He was therefore rejoiced at the prospect of alteration. He trusted that no house, however respectable, would be exempted from the operation of the bill; and that those which stood highest in reputation, would forego any privilege, in order that the act might be completely carried into effect.Mr. W. Smith
 also defended the Landlord and Tenant bill, and was ready to avow the share he had taken in its formation. He hoped the House would at length take the real state of Ireland into its consideration, and by getting rid of nostrums, adopt some sound principle of internal management, by which the industry of the country would be fairly stimulated.Sir H. Parnell
 condemned the practice indulged in by hon. gentlemen, of haranguing upon the subject of every petition they presented to the House.Sir John Brydges
587586 said, that his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the Exchequer, would be better able to speak upon the subject than he was; but he knew that his right hon. friend meant to lose no time in entering into personal communication with the parties, upon the matters in which they thought themselves aggrieved.—While he was upon his legs he might as well take the opportunity of removing one or two erroneous impressions which had gone abroad, as to part of the statement which he had made on a former evening. He was aware that in doing this he was a little out of order; but where the personal feelings of a member were concerned, it was the cus-
587586Mr. Herries
 said, he had no doubt that the right hon. gentleman was prepared to answer the inquiries of his noble friend. Indeed, it was impossible that he should avoid doing so. But he wished to put one other question to the right hon. gentleman, without which his answer would neither be complete nor satisfactory to the House. If the right hon. gentleman had not, on a preceding evening, come forward with a gratuitous explanation of the charges which he thought affected his character as a public man and as a minister, he should have had no title to ask the right hon. gentleman the question which he was about to put. But, as he had come forward, uncalled upon, to reply to a charge not suggested in the House—a charge that he had gone and consulted with some one out of the cabinet, and out of the circle of the administration—as he had denied that charge, with an explicitness which had scarcely, even in the walls of that House, been exceeded,—that being the case, he wished to know of the right hon. gentleman, whether he rightly understood him to have said, "as he hoped to be saved," and "upon his sacred honour as a gentleman," there was no foundation whatever for the charges and insinuations which had been brought against him elsewhere, that he had gone forth from the cabinet, in the course of the struggles of the ministry, and made a communication in a certain other quarter—the highest quarter in the state: assuming the right hon. gentleman to have said this, since it was not contradicted,—that he most solemnly denied having consulted any party out of the circle of the cabinet on the imputed occasion—did the right hon. gentleman mean also to say, that no party out of the cabinet had ever consulted him? He wished to know, whether the right hon. gentleman's denial went to the fact of any individual having consulted with him, as well as of his having consulted with any individual?Mr. Brougham
590 said, that he did not think the hon. and learned gentleman had a right to put that last question. He doubted whether it ought to be asked: at least, he thought it would more properly have been omitted. All he would say was this, that he entirely abided by his explanations already given. He would enter
590Mr. Herries
 observed, that he had claimed no right to ask any question. He had put his inquiry, he thought, in a way calculated to disarm all personal feeling. He had distinctly said, that he should not have thought of putting any question, except for the explanation which the right hon. gentleman had volunteered. If the right hon. gentleman intended to abide in silence now, it would have been infinitely better, for his own sake, if he had never explained at all.Mr. Brougham
 said, that perhaps the House would allow him to re-state a fact, which he apprehended the hon. member had not distinctly heard. He had stated, on a preceding evening, not that which the hon. member imputed to him, but that he had heard, on that night, for the first time, that the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies had resigned on the 29th of December: and he had added a complaint, that he had not been informed of that fact, until the 5th of January. Two morning papers, which had reported his speech upon that evening, distinctly confirmed his present representation of that which he had said. He desired to repeat that representation; and if the hon. member still doubted its accuracy, he might refer to the reports which he had alluded to; but which it was not possible for him, in his own justification, to produce.Mr. Herries
594593 said, that after the observations of the hon. baronet, he would offer a few words to the House; but not at all in departure from his already expressed determination—that of entering into no disclosures not absolutely necessary to his own exculpation. An hon. and learned gentleman, who had termed his explanation on a former evening voluntary and gratuitous, knew well that he had been
594593Mr. Herries
596 said, that the question which he had first introduced to the House had now arrived at that stage in which it could not be taken up beneficially by any person except the right hon. gentleman himself. The right hon. gentleman had said, that he had given an explanation which must be considered satisfactory. How far it tended to clear his character—of course he meant his public character—he would not inquire. Neither would he stop to examine how far a minister of the Crown was justified in throwing out insinuations against his late colleagues in office. On all these points he would leave the right hon. gentleman to the benefit of that opinion which he might very easily gather, from all sides of the House, during the present short discussion. He had risen for the purpose of setting the right hon. gentleman right on one point. Any further question he would not put, for the right hon. gentleman seemed as incapable of understanding any question put to him, as he was of answering it in a way in which it could be understood by others. The
596Lord Normanby
599598597 said, that the noble lord had correctly re-stated the points to which he had called his attention. To those points he conceived that he had already given a reply. He had stated his reasons for the delay which occurred between the 3rd of December and the letter he wrote on the 21st. For that, he thought, he had also satisfactorily accounted. But the noble lord objected, that he had shifted his ground, and stated a reason, at a subsequent interval, different from that which he had mentioned at first; and the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn) said the same thing, and asked, why he had assumed that the nomination of lord Althorp was completed, when he had been already told that it was only proposed. He would answer, that he had a right to assume that the engagement was concluded; and let it be remembered, that when he read the letter to the House, he stated that he had so
599598597Mr. Herries
 said, that from the feeling manifested by the House, it appeared to him that it was not its wish that this matter should be pressed further, the more particularly as no further explanation could be expected from the right hon. gentleman. There was only one word which he would add on the subject, in reference to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman as to his (Mr. B. 's) not having spoken advisedly, when he stated that the right hon. gentleman had volunteered a gratuitous explanation. He begged to assure him, that he had spoken advisedly on that occasion, and he was borne out in it by his noble friend; for he remembered that the right hon. gentleman had alluded to attacks made upon him in the newspapers, and had culled and selected one point of attack, and had given his answer to it.Mr. Brougham
 rose for leave to bring in a Bill, "for regulating the Mode of taking the Polls in Cities and Boroughs in England." In bringing forward this motion, he was, he said, the organ of a committee appointed to inquire into the abuses which it was proposed by the bill to remedy. The object of the bill was to extend the facilities of voting at present enjoyed by electors; and the mode in which it was proposed to do so, was by increasing the number of places at which polls were taken, and by limiting the duration of those elections. At present every election presented a scene of licentiousness and riot; the contest was always a source of immense expense; and by the stagnation of business, and the interruption of all affairs of trade, the loss was greatly increased. He anticipated no opposition, and should at present confine himself to his motion for leave to bring in the bill.Colonel Davies
 thought it necessary to have a number of booths and polling places in large towns, to avoid the access to the hustings being blocked up by the adverse parties. He should look with jealousy to the progress of the bill, as it appeared to him not to afford sufficient time for bringing up voters from London to distant places.Lord Lowther
 was of opinion, that all the evils complained of under the present system, arose from the too long duration of the time of polling. In the borough which he represented, the election was generally, concluded in one day, and the number of voters polled on the last occasion was one thousand five hundred, including three hundred out-voters.Mr. Batley
 said, that six days, the term proposed in the bill for the duration of the poll, appeared to him insufficient. He thought, likewise, that if the object was, to curtail expense, the having a number of polling places was not the way to effect it; seeing that the candidates would be obliged to have counsel at each place.Mr. Baring
à priori. suggested to the hon. mover, that the best argument he could bring in aid of his bill would be some instances of the benefit which had resulted from the abridgment of the poll in particular places. In Norwich, he believed, the duration of the poll had been considerably shortened. He threw out this suggestion, seeing that one practical instance would have greater weight than innumerable arguments à priori.Mr. Secretary Peel
601 said, that the
601The Attorney-General
 said, that great anxiety existed as to the object which the hon. gentleman had in view. An idea prevailed, that it was the intention of the hon. member to take away from friendly societies the power of appointing their treasurers and other officers; which, in the opinion of persons connected with those societies, would destroy the system altogether. He was satisfied that the hon. member had no such intention; but hoped that, to allay the apprehensions of others, he would take that opportunity of stating what his object was.Mr. Hume
602 said, it might be a sufficient answer to what had fallen from the hon. member, to state that the bill which he proposed to bring in, did not in any degree affect the societies formed otherwise than under the act which he had the honour to introduce in 1819. The new bill would interfere no further in the matter of appointing officers than the former bill did. The existing act required that there should be certain trustees, and that they should appoint the treasurer. The act interfered in no other way with the management of the societies; so far from it, that all clauses in former acts relating to their management were repealed by it. Except in the matter of securities, the societies framed under his act had more direct management of their affairs than those framed under Mr. Rose's act. The act he had introduced was intended to obviate the numerous evils which resulted from miscalculation; for which purpose it provided, that justices should not allow any society to be formed, whose tables of payments and benefits should not have been approved by two competent actuaries. In the execution of this provision, however, a difficulty arose: it was not easy to know who were competent actuaries. To get rid of this obstacle, he would propose, in the bill he was about to introduce, that the rules and tables exhibited at the sessions should be, by the clerk of the peace,
602Mr. Courtenay
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation.Mr. Hume
 wished to state some objections which he felt, not so much towards the principle of the proposed measure, as to some of its details. He thought it would tend to the ultimate success of the bill, if it were to undergo a little more consideration. The bill had been passed last year in the House of Commons, but had been lost in the other House. Upon the former occasion, the late chancellor of the Exchequer had said, "Where there's a will there's a way," an expression, the meaning of which he did not understand at the time, but which he since understood to mean that, although there was a will to pass the measure in the House of Commons, there was a way to get rid of it in the House of Lords; and so it proved. Before it passed, he should like to know, whether it was likely to be productive of serious loss to the country. If the tax, as it at present existed, operated as a hardship upon Roman Catholics in particular, he was the last man to wish for its continuance. But if the Land-tax was felt as a grievance, then the general question had better go before the finance committee. It had always been an impression upon his mind, that the hon. mover of the bill was rather hostile to the Roman Catholics; but he supposed the hon. member introduced this motion as a sort of balsam —that he intended by it to pour oil into the wounds of that body. He disclaimed all hostility to the Roman Catholics. He cared not whether a man came from Canterbury or Rome, and thought that the Roman Catholic ought not to pay a larger amount of taxation than the Protestant. So much for the policy of the bill; it was much more material to consider its justice. There was, in his opinion, no hardship whatever in the existing system; or if any, it fell almost entirely on the inhabitants of the southern counties of England; and they, in his opinion, had a stronger claim to relief than the Roman Catholics.Mr. Curteis
607 said, he should be the last man in the world to object to a measure like the present, which was intended to do justice to persons whose rights appeared to have been injured; but, at the same time, as the indulgence which was now sought to be granted to the Catholics must come out of the public purse, he thought it was
607Mr. Fyler
 said, he was ready to support the principle of this bill, for the same reasons which had induced him to support it in the last session. But he thought, that instead of debating the principle of the measure, on which he believed they were all agreed, they ought to let the bill go into the next stage, where they might discuss the best mode of obviating the difficulties which were anticipated to its practical operation. He agreed that, to impose a different rate of duty on different classes of the community, on account of the difference in their religious creeds, was a doctrine which no man of common sense, at the present day, would advocate.Mr. Herries
608s. said, he knew that the statute of William 3rd, being held a very severe measure against the Roman Catholics, had, by collusion and connivance on the part of the early commissioners, never been carried into execution against them. The difficulty, therefore, would be to ascertain the fact, whether the Roman Catholic proprietor had had a double assessment placed upon his land in the time of king William, according to its then real value. He was not satisfied with the nature of the proof which the present bill provided on that point; on the contrary, he thought that the legal advisers of the Crown should have an opportunity of bringing it under revision. There was another provision of the bill with which he was not satisfied. When Mr. Pitt made the Land-tax, perpetual, it followed as a matter of course, that no change could take place in the assessments which were then made, and not appealed against within a given time, An opportunity was then given to the Roman Catholics to get rid of their assessment of 8608s.The Attorney-General
 explained the mode in which the commissioners of Land-tax disposed of appeals against the inequality of the tax in his district. He had no great alarm, as to the sum which the revenue would lose by the passing of this measure; for he knew that there was not, in the extensive county of Sussex, a single Catholic who would have occasion to appeal under it; and he believed that the same was the case in Surrey. He was of opinion that public justice required the bill to be passed, and that the thanks of the country were due to the law officers of the Crown for not meeting it with any unnecessary opposition.Mr. Hurst
l.l.l.l.609 said, that he did not look upon this measure as a boon to the Catholics, but as an act of tardy justice. When the act was passed, which made the Land-tax perpetual, the inequality with which it pressed upon the Roman Catholics was dwelt upon by Mr. Pitt. He used phrases which showed that he considered it to be owing to the carelessness of Protestants, that an inequality existed among them; and said, that he could not allow that inequality to be urged as a reason for delaying the passing of his bill, which it was well known was an important financial measure. Not a word further was said at that time by the Roman Catholics; for at that time, too, there was no Roman Catholic in the House to advocate their cause. He, who had always opposed the admission of Catholics into parliament, on national grounds, never supposed that it was not a hardship upon them, that they had not individuals in the House to advocate their rights, and therefore he agreed with the Attorney-general, that though it might not be hard to let the Protestants suffer for their neglect, they were bound to show greater indulgence to Roman Catholics. In cases, therefore, where Protestants paid an equal assessment with Catholics, he did not pretend, by this bill, to give any remedy. The law, however, professed to remedy the injustice which
l.l.l.l.609Mr. G. Bankes
 said, he thought it would be advisable to give the powers of the committee a wider range, as there were many other points, with respect to the Poor Laws, which must necessarily force themselves upon their consideration. In some parts of the country, the rate of wages was so low, that even a single man could with difficulty support himself without parochial aid. It was not his intention to trespass upon the attention of the House on that occasion; but if no other member took the matter up, he should feel it his duty to move, that the committee should have power to embrace the more general question of the Poor-laws.Colonel Wood
 said, he could not promise to give his general attendance at the committee, in consequence of his professional avocations. What assistance he could afford short of such attendance, he was very willing to contribute.The Attorney General
 rose to inquire, whether it was the intention of the Treasury to take any steps I for inquiring into the complaints of the Maltsters?Mr. Portman
592 said, he was much
592Sir J. Macdonald
 said, that his only excuse for intruding upon the House was, the speech which had just been made by the right hon. gentleman; and he confessed, so far from taking it as an explanation, that he had never heard any address from an hon. member that surprised him more. If his senses, on a preceding evening, had not entirely failed him, he had heard the right hon. gentleman say, that it was then, for the first time, that he had heard of the resignation of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies. Nay, the right hon. gentleman had repeated the expression: he had used it twice. This was not only his impression, but that of several other members around him; and he was astonished to find the right hon. gentleman, three days afterwards, giving the statement a totally different construction. He expected, after this, that the right hon. gentleman would next explain away the well-remembered words which he had uttered—" I know it." One expression was just as clear as the other. With respect to the whole statement, indeed, of the right hon. gentleman, he came to the same conclusion. He believed that the right hon. gentleman's object was to mystify the late transactions, so that they should be beyond all mortal understanding; and, if such was his intent, he had completely succeeded. If any thing like explanation was meant by the right hon. gentleman's speeches, he protested that he considered them as a most exemplary failure.Mr. T. Duncombe
 disapproved of increasing the number of polling booths. He disliked to see electors shut up in different pens like so many sheep. He thought they ought rather to assemble in a body, and express their feelings in a united voice.Mr. Fyler
605604603 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for a select committee" to take into consideration the Law of Parochial Settlements." The hon. member said, that after deliberating whether be should embody at once the alterations which he proposed to make in the laws relating to parochial settlement into a distinct bill, or ask for a committee of inquiry, he had thought it his duty to prefer the latter mode; because, if it should be thought that there was too much of novelty in his views, they would be better digested and come with stronger recommendation from the hon. members whom he intended to propose as a committee.—The first objection against the laws relative to parochial settlements was, that they were founded upon ancient habits of serfship, and militated against the liberty of the subject. Under the present system, the unfortunate pauper, on the approach of illness, age, or disability, might, together with his family, be dragged like criminals from one end of the country to the other, that they were finally lodged in some obscure parish, where, according to the opinion of any two magistrates in the vicinity, they had done some act to entitle them to a settlement. This harsh and evil policy had been strongly deprecated by sir William Blackstone and by Mr. Pitt. The former had declared, in his Commentaries that, "notwithstanding the pains which have been taken about the laws of settlement, they still remain very imperfect, and inadequate to the purposes they are designed for: a fate that has generally attended most of our statute laws, where they have not the foundation I of the common law to build on. When the shires, the hundreds, and the tithings, were kept in the same admirable order, that they were disposed in by the great Alfred, there were no persons idle; consequently none but the impotent that needed relief; and the 43rd Statute of I Elizabeth seems entirely founded on the same principle. But when this excellent scheme was neglected and departed from, we cannot but observe with concern, what
605604603Mr. Potter Macqueen
 declared himself satisfied with the occasional assistance of the hon. and learned gentleman.Mr. Macqueen
595 begged to repeat in the most distinct and unequivocal terms, his belief that the resignation of the right hon. gentleman was the cause of the dissolution of the late ministry. He knew of no other cause whatever. Whether the government could continue to stand, would have depended on the share of the confidence of parliament which it might possess; but that it was intended to meet parliament and to stand the contest on that occasion, he was convinced. Now, he begged to ask the right hon. gentleman whether, eight and forty hours before he had sent in his resignation, he had not in the cabinet, promised to co-operate in the support of lord Goderich's government to the utmost of his power? He asked him whether he had said or intimated any thing on that occasion, which could give the slightest reason to suppose that he had at that time any intention to resign? He begged to ask the right hon. gentleman whether at that time he had any intention of writing the letter tendering his resignation? If he had, he most certainly had deceived him— he would not say intentionally, but he had deceived him—for he would most distinctly assert, that it was impossible for any man who heard the promise of the right hon. gentleman on the 19th of December, to believe that it was his intention to resign on the 21st. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that no man who had heard
595Mr. Wynn
 said, that if he had been silent upon a former night, it had only been because he felt that he could add nothing to that which had been stated by others. He had personally been a stranger to the cause which led to the dissolution of the late administration until the 9th of January: but, after all that had passed, he must say, that he thought further explanation from the right hon. gentleman necessary. With respect to the allegation made by the right hon. gentleman, he knew not upon what ground it rested; and until he had further proofs of the existence of a design to break up the government, he must say, with all deference to the right hon. gentleman, that he could not give credit to it. From that which he knew of those with whom he had been united in office, and from his personal knowledge of the noble lord at the head of the late government, he did most entirely believe, that if there were grounds for the insinuations of the right hon. gentleman, as to intention or design—of those intentions or designs, the noble lord and his colleagues in the ministry, from beginning to end, had been entirely ignorant.Mr. Wynn
591 said, he entirely concurred in what had fallen from his right hon. friend. The circumstances which he had stated were those which, as far as his own knowledge extended, had led to the dissolution of the late administration. Nothing, indeed, could have come more unexpectedly upon him than the dissolution of the administration. Nothing could have more excited his astonishment, except, indeed, the explanation given on a former night by the right hon. gentleman. The animadversions made by the right hon. gentleman on the noble lord at the head of the late administration, coming from the quarter which they did, had in-
591Mr. Sturges Bourne
 said, that the existing inconveniences were allowed on all hands. By shortening the period, and lessening the expenses of elections, the House would, he was convinced, be enlarging; and not restraining the elective franchise.Mr. W. Smith
600 said, he was disposed to
600Mr. Robinson
 said, that having read the explanations of a former night, and listened to those given on the present, the members of the late administration did appear to him to have been the greatest set of children that ever matters of importance were intrusted to. If that was the way in which the government of the country could be conducted, he fully agreed with the hon. member for Aberdeen, that it would be an excellent plan to have no government at all. It would be a great saving in salaries and emoluments; and the nation would get on as well by itself as with such a cabinet as the House had heard the history of. Here was a government broken up, and half the members connected with it not acquainted with the fact, until the dissolution was resolved on, and even concluded; and the king sending for the noble duke who was to form a pew one, and plainly telling him—" You must form a new ministry, for these fellows have at last done their own business; but if they could have kept from cutting their own throats, I assure you I would have Stood by them." He was very sorry to hear so lame an explanation from the right hon. Master of the Mint. It was very poor, poor indeed—very round-about, and full of reference to dates and hours, all which seemed to reasonable people very unimportant. He thought that, after what had fallen two evenings since from a noble lord in another place, the right hon. gentleman would have made a better statement to the House. As the account stood, it did appear that the right hon. gentleman had been the means of breaking up the last government, by his jealousy and squabbles; and if that was his general character, the sooner the duke of Wellington turned him out of the present cabinet the better.Sir J. Yorke
589 thought that the House was bound to take the fact to be as the right hon. gentleman had stated it. There could be no doubt but that he must be best able to decide that which he himself had said, independent of the authority alluded to. But he would put that question entirely aside; for that which the right hon. gentleman had just stated to the House seemed to him to be full of most important matter. The right hon. gentleman, on a preceding evening, had imputed a design—an intention—he did not know whether the right hon. gentleman had used the word" plot," but certainly he said a design, and an intention—to break up the ministry, and that his own threatened resignation had only been made a pretence for dissolving it. The right hon. gentleman had added, "I know it." Now, he would not have referred to that declaration, if the right hon. gentleman had not expressly, on the present evening, repeated to the House, by implication, that he was cognizant of that fact. If the right hon. gentleman was so—if he knew that a design had existed, and knew the parties who were concerned in it,—he had that to state as to which all the explanations hitherto given to the House were not worth common attention —were but as dust in the balance. All that had been stated was nothing—it was valueless and inefficient—as compared with the knowledge which the hon. gentleman, told the House he had behind. If he did know of this design, he must know the grounds of it, the objects of it, and the parties concerned in it; and on these heads
589Lord Milton
l.l.l.613bonâ fide expressed his surprise at the statement made by the noble lord. They had been told over and over again, that the troops employed in some of the colonies were paid l.l.l.613bonâ fideColonel Davies
617616615l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.614 said, that, as he had not had an opportunity of addressing the House before it went into the committee, he would avail himself of the present. Looking at the amount of the estimates, notwithstanding what had been stated by the right hon. gentleman on the subject, he despaired of any plan which could be pointed out, until he saw an effectual reformation in the public expenditure. It had been said, that they were now called upon only to vote the men, and that they could afterwards diminish the supply, if they should not approve of what might be done by the Finance Committee. But he considered it the duty of the House, in the first instance, to the down the government to a particular vote; and there would be no doubt but the establishment would be reduced in proportion to that vote. As to the Finance Committee, he had a high respect for many of the names placed on it; but, recollecting that he had never seen any public advantage result from any former Finance Committee, he had no expectations from the present. Such committees were, in general, a delusion on the public. They were appointed only to get over the difficulty of the moment, and were never resorted to, until ministers were driven as it were into a corner by their own extravagance. He wished to know what was intended. This, however, was not to be obtained, until after the Finance Committee should report; and thus the delay which ministers required would be obtained. They were told of a general desire for economy; but when any particular reduction was pointed out, there was always some attempt to evade it. If a reduction of colonial expenditure were mentioned, it was met by talking of the necessity of keeping our possessions in an effective state. Reduc-
617616615l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.614Mr. Alderman Waithman
618 was anxious to put the committee of supply on its guard against sanctioning certain numbers for the army or navy, under the idea that the Finance Committee would correct any extravagance which should hereafter be found to attach to the present vote. He admitted that there were difficulties respecting the ad-
618Mr. Maberly
 admitted that it would not be constitutional for the House to allow its legitimate functions to be usurped by any committee appointed to inquire into the revenues of the country, and that even after such committee should have examined and decided upon details, the House would still have the power of adopting or rejecting such recommendations. He had already explained what he considered to be the nature of the duty which devolved on the Finance Committee: he had stated that it was very difficult to lay down precise rules for their government, because of the confidential political information upon which the administration might be called upon to act; for instance, in such a possible event as the execution of the secret article of the Greek treaty. With respect to the Finance Committee, they were at that moment inquiring into the navy estimates, and had summoned before them one of the lords of the Admiralty and the Secretary. Their purpose was, to ascertain, starting from the point of 1792, why the establishments should continue upon an increasing scale. He thought himself bound to congratulate the worthy alderman upon the ample proof he had afforded of the necessity of establishing this Finance Committee; for at a time when the sole subject before them was the army estimates, he had wandered into references to the dissolution of the late government, and explanations which had arisen out of them. In the Finance Committee these digressions could not take place, and their real business would no doubt, in consequence, be better attended to.Mr. Secretary Peel
632 said, that the noble lord had instanced the case of two regiments now under orders for foreign service, which had passed but six years at home after having served abroad for seventeen. This case was intended to show, that the army did not admit of any reduction. But what would become of the noble lord's argument if it could be shown that such instances grew out of a system new to the army,—the system of dépôt companies; and that they must continue to arise so long as that system was persevered in? Those establishments consisted of eleven thousand four hundred and twenty four rank and file, which were rendered totally inefficient by being scattered about in small detachments, and stationed in places where they were not wanted. The consequence was, that the battalions were frittered down to a small number; and thence arose the necessity of greater and more rapid demands for foreign service. Military men were all agreed, that nothing could be more. injurious to the service. As to the noble lord's plan of reducing by individuals, not by battalions, he would ask, was it necessary to have a hundred and twenty battalions as a nucleus from which to recruit our army in the event of war? The plan adopted during the last war must be admitted to have worked well; and that was to reduce, whenever reductions were made, by battalions. Independently of the testimony of experience in its favour, there was this manifest advantage,—that it
632Colonel Davies
 compared the conduct of parliament in voting away sums without investigating its means of payment, to that of a private gentleman, who proceeded to arrange his establishment, without considering whether he was capable of bearing the expense. He maintained that if a Sinking-fund of five millions was to be kept up, the country could not support its present establishments, and defray the amount of its taxation.Mr. A. Dawson
631 expressed an anxiety to have some guarantee from the noble lord, ensuring the House not only that they were not pledged to any specific number of troops by the vote required, but that there was a disposition on the part of government to reduce the number as low as possible. It was too much the habit of government to refer them, upon all questions of economy to the Finance Committee; but they were bound to take care that between the two stools the public did not come to the ground. The Colonial Secretary, and the Secretary at War, seemed to differ as to the functions of that committee. One thought it had nothing to do with the naval and military establishments, the other that it had. All he would say was, that if it had nothing to do with these establishments, he did not see why the noble lord should refer them to that committee. At all events, he hoped that as they were called upon for a vote, they would have an understanding from the noble lord, that there should be a diminution of expense, instead of the increase which they were justified in apprehending. They were told by the noble lord, that there was to be a reduction of five thousand men; but he was sorry to say that such assurances afforded him little consolation. The House would recollect, that they were told of great reductions in the half pay and pension lists before; and they would also recollect how far those promises had been realized. Were the half-pay and the pensions reduced? On the contrary, had
631Mr. P. Thomson
l. said, that in calling upon the House to vote the Ordnance Estimates for the current year, he had to state, that no new works had been introduced into them. They were precisely such as had been already sanctioned by the House, and he now merely asked for a vote of credit to meet the expenditure of the Ordnance department for the current year. Whenever the report of the Finance Committee should come under the consideration of the House, all the details of this department would be open for investigation and discussion, and the present vote would not pledge any member to a particular line of conduct then. He now moved, "that a sum not exceeding 783,598l.Sir H. Hardinge
636l.l.l. said, that since the year 1820, when the Ordnance department was confided to the duke of Wellington, to the year 1827, when he gave it up, a saving had been effected of no less than 230,000636l.l.l.Sir H. Hardinge
l.l.627626 said, that though he felt inclined to grant the supply which it was now proposed to make to his majesty, he was particularly anxious to guard himself against the supposition, that he agreed to it from any confidence in the present administration. So long as he saw men acting together in apparent concert, between whom an irreconcilable difference had recently existed,—so long as one portion of the administration was sitting calmly by the side of another portion of it, though it had been charged by that other portion with the meanest and basest usage towards its Sovereign, and though those charges were still unrefuted—so long as he saw a spectacle which placed the administration in so shameful and contemptible a light—it was impossible that any vote which he might give should be a vote of confidence in that administration. He must say, that his noble friend had chosen an inconvenient mode of taking the discussion as to the number of men for the service of the year. The committee was not now discussing the amount of the sums to be expended for their support, because it was understood that a more suitable opportunity would arrive for that discussion. It appeared strange, that the committee should be called upon to agree to a vote for ninety thousand men, when the leading member of the administration
l.l.627626Sir J. Macdonald
 said, he could not understand why, taking a vote for six months, it should be objected to take, at the same time, a Mutiny-bill for six months.Mr. Calcraft
l.620619l. thought there was a great contradiction in the course pursued by the noble Secretary at War, in calling for a vote of 3,000,000l.620619l.Mr. Calcraft
 said, the hon. member was in error in charging him with inconsistency on the subject of the Sinking fund. He was not an advocate of paying off the debt with a Sinking fund, while there existed no real surplus from which it could be taken. But as the law stood, they must find money to keep it up, as well as every other establishment. He could not but hail the maiden ignorance exhibited by the new lords of the Treasury on this subject as a happy omen. Those three gentlemen stood unpledged to all ancient fallacies, and when the Finance Committee met, they would be ready to give their support to a new and improved system. He was glad that the new lords of the Treasury were not implicated in the support of lord Bexley's delusions. He expected much from the duke of Wellington. He was sincerely impressed with the conviction, that there was no man more likely to make a reform in the expenditure of the country, with the exception of one noble friend of his, than the present head of the government. Objections had been raised to the present as being a military government. That was perfect nonsense. He was sure the duke would not allow his military character to interfere with the discharge of his civil duties.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that for the three or four years during which the duke of Wellington was at the head of this department, he had entered into a minute investigation of its various details, and it was his impression that his grace had made as much reduction in it as the public service would admit of. Now that the noble duke was at the head of all the departments of the state, it was reasonable to conclude that he would enforce a system of economy similar to that which he had established while presiding over the Ordnance.Mr. Calcraft
l.633l. said, that in the few words he should offer, he would confine himself exclusively to the dead-weight; under which head there were some items that seemed to call for examination. He was aware that in that House the example of America was not likely to find admirers; upon which account he would make no appeal to the system pursued in the American army; but the example of France was not regarded with the same jealousy or repugnance. The government of France was more monarchical, but, happily for her people, less aristocratical than our own. The power of the Crown might be less restrained, but the interests of the people were more consulted. To the practice of the French army he therefore would appeal. The first point he should notice in the regulations of the French army was, that their system admitted of no such thing as the retiring of officers upon full pay. Yet no man could doubt of the efficiency of the French army. Another article in the deadweight, was the pensions granted to officers' widows, which amounted to no less a sum than 143,000l.633l.Mr. Monck
634l. said, that the noble lord had greatly mistaken his words, if he supposed that he had complained of his having turned into the right way. For his own part, though he was willing to give the noble lord credit whenever he went right, he was determined never to cease to blame him for having gone wrong so long. The present system ought not to be continued. As it was, every 100,000634l.Mr. Hume
625624623622621l.l.l. said, he was opposed to these votes without further explanation; for it was in that House, and not in the Finance Committee, that the necessary information ought to be forthcoming. With the change of men from this time last year, he had looked forward to a change of measures, and yet no serious alteration had taken place. It was not, he knew, for the Treasury, but for the cabinet to decide upon the number of troops to be maintained; still, the incidental payments ought to be clearly defined, and not kept in that state of delusion which now prevailed. He had over and over again impressed upon the noble lord opposite, that the Treasury had to pay a large part of the military expense of the colonies, but this had always been denied; yet in Ceylon, the Cape, and Malta, the thing was now obvious. Why not reduce the military staff, which amounted to 140,000625624623622621l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 did not rise to oppose the vote. If an army of ninety thousand men were to be maintained, he did not see how a further reduction could be effected in the Ordnance. He would reserve to a future period the expression of his sentiments upon this subject.Mr. Hume
 said, that the regiments which were raised at the commencement of the war were at first inefficient, in consequence of the want of skeleton regiments to graft them on; though they quickly became efficient afterwards. He did not hesitate to express his opinion, that if in 1793 a larger and better disciplined force had been sent out to the continent, the war would not have been prolonged, nor the expense incurred have been so excessive. The hon. gentleman who spoke last, did not wish too see the widows who now, held pensions deprived of them; but the country would not, he was sure, wish, either now or at any future time, to see the widows of officers, who had served and bled for their country, deprived of the miserable pittance which the humanity and justice of that country had provided.Sir H. Vivian
l.l.630l.l.629628 said, he wished to be allowed to explain upon two points. It had been asked why they should vote a given number of men for six months, when the number for the year must be recited in the Mutiny-bill; a recital which would form a conclusion against any subsequent alteration of it? Now, he begged leave to inform the committee, that the Mutiny-bill recited the number of men voted for the year, as a foundation for the code of laws by which the Crown governed the army in time of peace; but nobody ever supposed that by that recital the Crown was bound to keep up the number of men enumerated in it. The Mutiny-bill recited a greater number of men as being employed for the service of the year, than the Crown could ever bring into, or than ever were actually in, the realm. No difficulty, therefore, could occur upon that head; because, if the Crown should be inclined to disband the army entirely, it would not be prevented from doing so by the large number of men recited in the Mutiny-bill as being engaged for the year. It was consequently clear, that even though the House should agree to a vote for a given number of men for the year, and should insert that number in the Mutiny-bill, it would not thereby be prevented from afterwards reducing it to such a number as a committee might think proper to advise. The objection, therefore, that was started upon this ground, could not apply to the vote under discussion. He had been asked, what convenience the service would gain by having the Mutiny-bill passed for the whole year, instead of half a year. If any gentleman would look at the last clause of the Mutiny-bill, he would see that its continuance was limited to different times in different places, according to their distance from England. Now, if they broke all those periods into two, they would render that
l.l.630l.l.629628Lord Palmerston
 contended, that the present vote would by no means compromise the right of the House hereafter to reduce any of the votes, should the Finance Committee recommend their reduction.Lord Palmerston
612l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.611l.l.l.l.l.l.610 said, that for the convenience of the House, he would, in proposing the vote, instead of taking half the sum required on each item, or instead of proposing the whole sum on each for six months, take a certain sum on account of the whole. This would be for the convenience of the House, as many of the items involved matters which would pro-
612l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.611l.l.l.l.l.l.610Lord Palmerston
 said, that the fact of a connexion with the Arigna Mining Company, and those other public cheats which had so materially injured the community, together with the admission, by the chairman of the committee, that abuses had been practised for so considerable a period, were fully sufficient to warrant their rejection of the present demand. Seeing that the company had so grossly abused their trust for the sake of emolument, the House ought not to listen to any proposal which had for its object any addition to their finances. Even if the bill were in itself a desirable measure, he would not consent to enlarge the powers of the company.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 opposed the second reading of the report. The company enjoyed, he said, a charter which gave them a great monopoly; and they had endeavoured to make that monopoly still greater, by evading the condition's with which they were bound to comply.Mr. Maberly
654 was also in favour of the principle of the bill, the tendency of which, he thought, was to assimilate tenures of land in Ireland to those in England. In consequence of the dissimilarity which now existed in these tenures, the appearance of the land in Ireland was very different from that in England. The same difference existed between the appearance of the men and of their habitations; and whoever had passed through Ireland, must have remarked the want of those comfortable homesteads which distinguished the counties of England. It had been said, that the grievance of Ireland
654Mr. F. Lewis
 said, from what had fallen from his right hon. friend, the Irish Secretary, the other night, he seemed to be prepared to submit a proposition, for the amendment of this bill, to their consideration. Under these circumstances, the best course would be, to wait until the proposed amendment came distinctly before them. He would not more immediately refer to the terms of the petition, or to the object of those who presented it, than by saying, that the most dignified revenge the House could adopt was, to pass such amendments as they conceived would afford the best remedy to the evils that were admitted to be in the bill.Mr. Secretary Peel
sssdsds658 said, that, after his extraordinary speech, he could not help complaining of his gallant friend's not being in his place on the occasion to which he had referred, as he had thought proper in so loose a manner to quote the proceedings. His gallant friend had no right to put words into his mouth which he had never uttered, for the sake of answering them in his own way. What he had really said was, that an order had been given for a better description of jackets,
sssdsds658Sir G. Cockburn
l.662l.ll661l660l.l659 said, he could not help expressing his astonishment that the House should be called upon to agree to votes on account, without any statement being before them, or any one point marked out in which some reduction was to take place in the expenditure. That he considered to be the proper time for a member of that House to take into his consideration any and all the acts of government into which he deemed it right to inquire, and to demand something like a pledge from them, before he intrusted them with the disposal of large sums of money which might be spent, as it appeared, on their own shewing, that former grants had been, wastefully and extravagantly. It was rather a matter of surprise, that an hon. gentleman should, by way of passing a high encomium on a noble duke, have stated that a considerable effort had been made in the Board of Ordnance, to facilitate economy. The gallant officer
l.662l.ll661l660l.l659Mr. Alderman Waithman
664 said, he could assure his gallant friend that, in the formation of the Finance Committee, nothing was further from his intention than to imply the slightest disrespect to the army or navy, by omitting the names of members of either service in the list of that committee. He could likewise assure him, that, so far from such a circumstance contributing to prevent the committee from turning its attention to the details of both services, since its appointment two distinguished military officers, members of that House, had been examined before the committee at great length upon all the points to
664Mr. Secretary Peel
l.666 said, he could answer for the noble marquis, lately at the head of the Home Department, that in reducing the yeomanry corps, nothing was further from his intention than to cast the slightest reflection upon any one individual connected with them, or to manifest an indifference to the services which those corps had rendered to the public. The government felt grateful to the yeomanry forces for its past services; but there was an extent beyond which that feeling should not be carried. The extent of service rendered by that force bore no comparison with the
l.666Mr. S. Rice
 thought that the only question to be asked was, why the whole body had not been dismissed? He could not see that any portion of them was necessary. In time of peace they were utterly useless, nay, they were worse than useless; for, from proofs of their acts, the painful particulars of which he would not bring to the recollection of the House, they had shewn how unsafe it was to employ them, and how much more preferably the regular soldiery might have been engaged to undertake the business. For his part, he thought they ought to have been abolished ten years ago.Sir R. Heron
668 said, that upon every occasion, the yeomanry had distinguished itself for the public good. It had always merited and received the approbation of the country; and the same disposition still pervaded the body at large to contribute its exertions whenever necessary in future. He was justified in saying so by the fact, that many corps had tendered
668Mr. Secretary Peel
 thought that, as long as Ireland was in the state in which she was at present, the army could not be safely reduced. It was beginning at the wrong end to think of reducing the army: they should rather seek for some way to tranquillize Ireland.Mr. N. Calvert
 said, the House was called upon to make every effort to reduce the expenditure of the country. He should not, however, press his amendment to a division.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 opposed the bill. He said, he saw no reason why Birmingham should enjoy the privilege proposed to be taken from East Retford. There were four counties without representatives at all in that House. He would move, "that the bill be read a second time this day she months."Mr. Stewart
 observed, that the trust with which electors were invested was similar to that of jurymen; yet it was the practice now a days, to consider the elective franchise as a great privilege. In an early period of our history there had been instances of electors petitioning the House to be exempted from the office of voting, on account of their poverty. It was now, however, found out that the office was extremely profitable, and that it was quite cruel to take it away.Mr. N. Calvert
676prima facie thought it was material that it should be distinctly understood what was the principal object of the present measure. If he thought the real question involved in the proposition of the hon. gentleman was that which had been contemplated by two hon. gentlemen on his side of the House—that it was to decide whether East Retford was to be disfranchised or not—he might be disposed to vote against the proposition of the hon. gentleman. But he understood from his speech, that he only called on the House that evening to agree to his motion, in order that further evidence might be obtained, to enable members to make up their minds. If this were the case—if the House was to agree to the second reading of the bill, in order that evidence might be adduced at its bar, and that it might by personal examination of the witnesses determine the extent of corruption in East Retford—he should not refuse to the hon. member the opportunity of establishing his facts. He did not feel himself called upon to enter into the question of whether there was or was not a 676prima facieMr. Secretary Peel
, in explanation, observed, that all he wished was, to wait until the evidence before the committee had proved the expediency of disfranchising East Retford: after which he should support the proposition for introducing into the bill the name of the place to which, in the opinion of the House, the elective franchise ought to be transferred.Mr. Secretary Peel
652 also defended the principle of the bill, and contended, that it was calculated to put an end to the great evils produced by the pernicious practice of sub-
652Mr. Brownlow
673672in limine671670 said, that at that late hour, and having in the last session occupied so much time on the subject of this bill, he should not, in moving the second reading, say more than was necessary to remind the House of the grounds on which it rested, and to explain the course he intended to pursue. Members would recollect that the committee appointed last year to try the merits of the East Retford Election petition, had presented a special report, in addition to that, by which they announced to the House that the election
673672in limine671670Mr. Tennyson
669 did not see any reason why reduction should be postponed, on account of the appointment of the Finance Committee. When that committee should make its report, the session would probably be near its close, the members would be out of town, and, under such circumstances, parliament would be called on to discuss this most important question. He was unwilling to vote so large a number of men as ninety-one thousand. Such a force was not required in time of peace. They had not such a force in 1792, nor in 1817, nor even in 1823. He could not see what were the peculiar circumstances of the country which rendered such an enormous force at present necessary. Looking at
669Mr. Sykes
 observed, that in the case of the bill for disfranchising Grampound, the name of Leeds was introduced, as the place to which the elective franchise was to be transferred; and that in the bill now in progress for disfranchising Penryn, the name of Manchester was introduced in a similar way. He had no hesitation in saying, that he was prepared, on the report of the Select Committee, to proceed to disfranchise East Retford; and he trusted that the legitimate object in view would not be met by Jesuitical evasions; but that the House would determine to do its duty.Mr. Littleton
667 said, that with him the
667Mr. Littleton
675 said, that even if he agreed with the hon. member that the trust of an elector was like that of a juryman, he must still assert, that to deprive a man of such a privilege inflicted a disgrace which would be felt painfully. He could not agree, therefore, that in these cases the complaints of the parties ought not to be listened to. The members of that House did not sit in it for their own purposes alone. A seat in that House was a burthen from which no member could
675Mr. G. Bankes
653 observed, that he felt it his duty to say a few words on the injustice of a petition, which had for its object the making a complaint against that part of the law known by the name of the Subletting Act in Ireland. When that act was about to be brought into parliament, the nature of its enactments were carefully made known throughout Ireland. No objection was made to it; and it was not until other circumstances had called up the Catholics in opposition to the act, that one word had been said about its supposed evils. The present petition was not from the landlords or tenantry of Ireland, but from the Catholic Association. There was hardly the name of one occupying tenant affixed to it; and he would venture to say that it was the petition of the real oppressors of Ireland—he meant her middlemen. In proof of this he would read from it a sentence, in which would be found words to this effect—" Can you, we ask with all deference and respect—can a Christian legislature contemplate two millions of murders, without horror and affright? We know that they are Irishmen, and poor Irishmen, but is not their blood of price in the sight of the Almighty." He would not comment further on such expressions; but he would ask whether, if the sentiments contained in the petition were those of the tenantry of Ireland, the table of the House would not have been crowded with them before now? The truth was, that the tenantry of Ireland were protected by this
653Mr. G. Dawson
655 thought that if members passed over the petition, without attempting to protect the petitioners from the effects of the bill, they would not discharge their duty. He differed from the hon. member who proposed to apply the
655Mr. H. Grattan
l.651l.l. thought it would be highly improper to trust those who had already abused the confidence of the public, and set at nought the acts of the legislature. The hon. member, who spoke last, confessed that the company had been guilty of flagrant abuses. This was now the third time of their coming to that House for purposes of aggrandizement. On the first occasion they had obtained 250,000l.651l.l.Mr. Calcraft
 approved of the principle of the bill, and thought there was not one man who really felt for the evils of Ireland that did not approve of it. He did not concur with all its provisions, as they at present stood. He thought the clause which provided that a tenant who possessed land under a lease should be precluded from devising his farm to more than one person ought to be repealed, as it compelled the testator either to sacrifice his children, and vest the property exclusively in his wife, or to mark out one favourite child to the exclusion of the wife and of the other sons and daughters. He thought, too, that some limitation of the periods of time mentioned in the act ought to be provided; and that the guardian of an infant or lunatic should be empowered to give his consent to an assignment proposed by the tenant.Mr. North
 presented a Petition, signed by the principal noblemen and leading Roman Catholics of Ireland, complaining oft he operation, and praying a modification, of the Landlord and Tenant bill, which had recently passed into a law.Mr. Hume
l. opposed the bill, on the ground that the company had not complied with the provisions of the bill which they had obtained in a former session. By that bill they had agreed, whenever a dividend was made, that one-eighth of such profits should be invested in government security, until the sum so obtained should have accumulated to 250,000l.Mr. Hume
 suggested that the discussion had already gone far enough, as they would soon have an opportunity of debating the question when it came properly before the House.Mr. R. Colborne
l.l. hoped the House would examine the amendments recommended by this report, before they adopted the course now suggested. He admitted that the dividends had not been applied as required by the act; and it was to provide a remedy for that misapplication, that these clauses were now offered by the committee. If the directors should hereafter dispose of the one-eighth of the dividends otherwise than as directed by the bill, they would be subjected to a penalty of 500l.l.Mr. Clinton
674 said, that having been intrusted by the corporation of East Retford with the care of their interests, he must object to the present bill, both on principle and because, in common justice to East Retford, the House could not entertain the present measure. In every former case—in the cases of Shoreham, Grampound, and Cricklade—the places had not been disfranchised on loose surmises of general corruption, but instances had been adduced, in almost all the cases, of individuals having been convicted of bribery. In the present case, the committee had thought proper to bring a general charge of corruption against East Retford at a former period, not properly under their consideration. In the Penryn case, what had passed at former elections had been stated to the House; but, in that case, repeated charges of similar acts at several successive elections had been recorded on the Journals of the House; whereas this was the first time that any charge had been made against East Retford. There was great hardship towards the accused in this course. The alleged acts of bribery had taken place in the election before the last. The accused, therefore, had not the same facilities of defence as they would have had if the charge had been made at that time. The evidence before the committee showed, that out of forty witnesses, eight or ten admitted that, at the former election, they had taken bribes. This was good evidence against those individuals, but not against
674Mr. F. Clinton
663 also expressed the gratifica-
663Sir C. Cole
dsl said, that as future and fitter opportunities would occur, he should not go into any detail of the items. At present it was proposed only to take half the sum that would probably be required for the service of the year. He moved, "that the sum of 2,208,233dslSir G. Clerk
650 seconded the amendment. The directors of this company, instead of vesting in the public funds one-
650Mr. G. Robinson
Laid many a heavy load on thee.""Lay heavy on him, Earth; for he665 said, that before the report was brought up, he believed he should not be irregular in saying a few words upon that subject. He had hoped, when the provisional grants for the different branches of the public service were passed the other evening, including that for the yeomanry-corps, that some hon. member would have taken the opportunity to have done that justice to them which they were so fully entitled to; but that not having been the case, he should trouble the House shortly upon the subject. Instead of offering any objection to the vote proposed on that head, he had to express his regret, that it was not to a greater extent. It had been his intention to have submitted a motion to that House having for its object the consideration of the measure of certain corps of yeomanry-cavalry having been recently disbanded by his majesty's late ministers; but, understanding that it was in the contemplation of the present government to make some alteration in that establishment, he had declined to fulfil his intentions. He felt, however, he should be guilty of a dereliction of duty, if he suffered that grant to pass, without shortly bringing the services of those corps to the grateful recollection of that House and of the country at large. He did not desire unnecessarily to impugn the conduct of his majesty's late ministers! They were, happily, defunct, and peace be to their manes: all he should apply to them was the epitaph on sir John Van-
Laid many a heavy load on thee.""Lay heavy on him, Earth; for he665Sir John Brydges
657ssminusdsl.l.l.656 said, that although he was one of those who were anxious to shorten the debates of that House, he was not altogether at his ease, when he saw that his hon. friend intended to shorten into a single vote a discussion which had often occupied the House more than a whole night. He conceived that there were items in/the present estimates, which the Committee of Finance ought to treat in a very inquisitorial manner, and which, if they did so treat, were certain to be reduced considerably. It was stated, the other night, by the Secretary to the Ordnance, that the duke of Wellington had made considerable reductions in that department of the public service, and that by those reductions he had not only increased its utility, but had stimulated the zeal of those who were employed in it. He trusted that similar reductions would be speedily made in the naval department, with similar benefit to the public service. He should like to know why his hon. friend below him, who had so often played first fiddle on occasions like the present, and the music of whose voice he was happy to hear again from his former situation, had again come forward to propose these votes, instead of his hon. and gallant friend (sir G. Cockburn), who had been first appointed to propose them. He wanted to hear from his hon. and gallant friend, what reductions were meditated at the Admiralty. He was afraid that we
657ssminusdsl.l.l.656Sir J. Yorke
 said, he was quite surprised that the government, in the manufacture of the Finance Committee, had not put upon it one, or two, or three professional men, connected with the navy, army, and ordnance, who could unravel the matters connected with their departments with technical dexterity. Upon it, however, there was not a single great gun; no, not even a pistol, or a patterero.Sir Joseph Yorke
 was of opinion, that, in the peculiar circumstances of the country, it would be only a delusion to hold out a hope that much relief could be obtained by reducing the army. This was a mere fallacy; and there was another which had gone abroad, namely, that by reducing the expenditure in other respects, great benefit might accrue to the nation. The total annual expenditure was about fifty millions, and of this there were not more than nineteen or twenty millions for the army, navy, ordnance, &c.; any reduction, therefore, that could possibly be made of these twenty millions of expenses, could not make a material difference, or meet the expectations of the public. The largest part of their expenditure was that which was connected with the interest of the national debt; and until they could reduce that, with perfect justice to the public creditor, it was clear that they could not make such a reduction as would satisfy the nation. Taking this point into consideration, it was, he conceived, very hard to expect from the labours of the Finance Committee that which they could not effect. He believed that the committee would prove to be an honest and efficient body; and nothing, he was sure, would prevent them from entering into a full investigation of every subject that might be brought before them; but it was unfair to expect impossibilities from them.Sir M. W. Ridley
 rose to explain why, upon this occasion, for the first time he believed, he should vote against reduction. They were at present only called upon to vote the estimates for six months, which were absolutely necessary, and nothing which passed now pledged any member to a particular line of conduct hereafter. He trusted that, in the Finance Committee, they should be able to reduce the military establishment of the country. In the existing state of their foreign relations, he did not think that the force specified in these estimates was too much to be granted to ministers for a period of six months [hear].Lord Althorp
 expressed a hope that, whatever alterations it might be found necessary to make in the details, the House would not lose sight of the principle of the measure, as it was calculated to produce the most beneficial effects in Ireland.Lord Milton
 observed, that the hon. baronet had compared the late government to sir John Vanbrugh; nor did he object to that comparison, for he was quite willing that they, as sir John had been, should be the envy of the superficial, and the abuse of the ignorant; confident that they would inherit the well-founded admiration of posterity.Lord Morpeth
l said, he did not see how the present topic was connected with the question before the House, but he was quite prepared to take the fullest responsibility upon himself for the measure. It had been a saving to the country of 86,000lLord Palmerston
694693692691690689688687686685684683682681680679678677 rose and said:—694693692691690689688687686685684683682681680679678677Lord John Russell
728727726725as aforesaid;beforeat724723722721720719718***717716 said, that, during the greater part of the speech of the hon. baronet, who had just sat down, he had reckoned on his vote in favour of the motion of the noble lord; for he had not thought it possible, until the hon. member had so declared it, that setting out as he did by laying it down as a principle, that the question was one of political expediency, and admitting that the least possible restriction should be put upon the Protestant Dissenters, that was consistent with the public security, and the protection which was due to the religion of the state, the hon. baronet should come to the conclusion, that the Dissenters ought to be
728727726725as aforesaid;beforeat724723722721720719718***717716Mr. Fergusson
702 said, that having presented many petitions from his constituents, who were anxious for the repeal of these intolerant laws, he could not give a silent vote on this occasion. He did not participate in the great anxiety which some persons felt for the repeal of these laws, because he considered them as virtually repealed by the annual Indemnity acts. The Test act had been laid asleep for nearly a century, during which period not one opportunity had occurred, not one solitary occasion, upon which the friends of intolerance and bigotry had dared to put it in force. Could they, then, hope-could they flatter themselves, that any future occasion could arise, which would give them the power of enforcing this odious law?—A law which might inflict the most atrocious penalties on a man, who had served his country in some useful office, but who had refused to profane a solemn religious rite for secular purposes. It would be too revolting to the spirit of the age, too gross an insult on common sense, for any legislature, for any House
702Mr. Marshall
734733732731730729 said, he fully agreed with the noble mover in considering the imposition of religious tests, as the means of civil qualification, highly objectionable. He certainly regretted their existence upon the Statute-book, but he had likewise to express his regret, that, under the present circumstances of the country, and at the present time, the noble
734733732731730729Mr. Secretary Huskisson
736735 continued,—Would the noble lord take upon himself to say, that the feeling in favour of the Roman Catholics was general, was universal, through all the Dissenters of this country? He was convinced that the present step, so far from being a step in favour of the Catholic claims, would be the means of arraying an additional power against them. He knew something of the feelings of the Dissenters, as well as the noble lord? (Nugent) who presented the petition of the Roman Catholic nobility and gentry in their favour; and he could tell that noble lord, that it would, he owned, be revolting to his feelings, to continue the disqualification of the first duke of the realm, and at the same time to display an ostentatious liberality, by attempting the repeal, with respect to the Dissenters, of certain forms to which every exciseman was subjected; and to do away with which, he believed the whole collective body would not subscribe one day's pay. He would tell the noble lord who had introduced the subject, that he was satisfied, if the question; were carried and finally settled, that the noble lord would find in the great body of Dissenters (not indeed amongst the liberal and enlightened part of that body) a strong feeling of opposition to the Catholic claims. He would tell the noble lord, that this question might be argued by different persons in very different ways. Would he deny that there were in this country a great many persons, perhaps a majority, who most sincerely, and conscientiously, and honourably, entertained the greatest apprehensions lest the Roman Catholics should be allowed a further participation in the privileges of the constitution, unless under certain engagements? He was ready to contend, that there was not one of those persons who was not convinced that, whenever concession was made, it ought to be
736735Mr. Secretary Huskisson
757756755754753752751750749748 rose and said;—I am anxious, Sir, not to defer to a later period of the evening, the delivery of the very few observations which I think it incumbent upon me to make in reference to the motion which the noble lord has so ably introduced to the attention of the House. In the course of the very able and temperate address, the noble lord appealed to me personally, not as an individual member of this House—not as a minister of the Crown—but as the representative of the University of Oxford; and he made that appeal, as I understood, for the express purpose of eliciting from me the opinions which that learned body entertained upon this question, and the instructions which they have thought it right to convey to their representative for the guidance of his conduct in this debate. Sir, I beg to state, in reply to this appeal of the noble lord, that I have not been instructed on this occasion by that University, to deliver any opinion, nor have they intrusted me with any petition to present to the House in opposition to the claims of the Dissenters. I beg to state further, that I am not in possession of any instructions as to the course of conduct which they desire their representative to adopt; and I am, therefore, disposed to infer from this silence, that they have not thought it fit to do any thing with reference to this question, and that they are disposed to rely with confidence upon the judgment of this House. I cannot, however, permit myself to infer from this silence that the members of that University acquiesce in the prayer of the Protestant Dissenters, or that it is their wish that I should support it. All that I gather from it is, that I am left entirely unfettered in the application of my judgment, as to the vote which I may think proper to give upon the question. I approach the consideration of the noble lord's proposition unfet-
757756755754753752751750749748Mr. Secretary Peel
 rose, but gave way toMr. Brougham
778777776775774773772771770769768767"Then," said the hon. baronet, "I do not like to talk so slightingly of—I do not like to disparage—the wisdom of our ancestors." Far be it from me, Sir, to disparage the praise thus bestowed, by the? hon. baronet, on the "wisdom of our ancestors." The phrase, however, I consider to have been one of the most fruitful sources of mischief to the country: but I must inform the hon. baronet, that that phrase had been disparaged long before the existence of the Test and Corporation acts—not by ridicule, but by sound argument—not by the sneers of the senseless, but by the soundest wisdom, the greatest knowledge, the highest intellect, that England ever produced. I commend the phrase to the mitigated censure of the hon. baronet. For it was a lord High Chancellor of England—a person of the name of Bacon, or some such name—a name, perhaps, which has no respect in the eyes of the hon. baronet—who first stamped the seal of disparagement on the phrase which the hon. baronet brings forward this evening "to fright the House from its propriety." He it was, Sir, who first reprobated the eternally-recurring praises of the "wisdom of our ancestors." He it was, who laughed
767766765 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—778777776775774773772771770769768767"Then," said the hon. baronet, "I do not like to talk so slightingly of—I do not like to disparage—the wisdom of our ancestors." Far be it from me, Sir, to disparage the praise thus bestowed, by the? hon. baronet, on the "wisdom of our ancestors." The phrase, however, I consider to have been one of the most fruitful sources of mischief to the country: but I must inform the hon. baronet, that that phrase had been disparaged long before the existence of the Test and Corporation acts—not by ridicule, but by sound argument—not by the sneers of the senseless, but by the soundest wisdom, the greatest knowledge, the highest intellect, that England ever produced. I commend the phrase to the mitigated censure of the hon. baronet. For it was a lord High Chancellor of England—a person of the name of Bacon, or some such name—a name, perhaps, which has no respect in the eyes of the hon. baronet—who first stamped the seal of disparagement on the phrase which the hon. baronet brings forward this evening "to fright the House from its propriety." He it was, Sir, who first reprobated the eternally-recurring praises of the "wisdom of our ancestors." He it was, who laughed
767766765Mr. Brougham
742741740739 said, that, from the temper in which the House had come to the discussion, he hoped that the recommendations in the opening speech of his noble friend on that score would be superfluous. The example of his noble and honourable friends, the mover and seconder, more powerful than even their recommendations, would, he was sure, be sufficient to deter gentlemen from the expression of any heated feelings on a question, on which, if some gentlemen were of opinion that the interest of the established church were indirectly menaced, some millions of persons in this country, of all the most useful, and of some of the most distinguished classes, felt their common law privileges to be cruelly and unjustly assailed.742741740739Lord Nugent
, across the table, dissented from this proposition.Lord Nugent
 said:—Mr. Wilbraham
701700699in terrorem?698697696l695 rose to second the motion. He began by observing, that from conversations which he had lately held with several members of parliament, he was much surprised to find that great ignorance prevailed amongst them with respect to the nature of the statutes of which the Dissenters complained. He would, therefore, take the liberty of stating what those statutes were, in order that the House might see the necessity for its interference.701700699in terrorem?698697696l695Mr. John Smith
 said, that this was not a question of party, but one that should be decided on its own merits. Whether he had received a ministerial circular to attend or not, be would assure the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, that he should form his opinion on the question to the best of his ability, and give his vote as his conscience dictated. It had been conceded by every speaker, that the laws against the Dissenters were harsh in a high degree; but it was contended, that they were absolutely necessary to the safety of the church establishment. Again, it was said, that they were repealed every year by the operation of the Indemnity act; but that seemed to prove, on the other hand, that no necessity for them existed. He, however, certainly considered their existence no small grievance to the Dissenters. He was as much attached as any man could be to the church establishment, but he thought some better test might be devised than that of taking the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. As to the importance of this subject in the eyes of the Dissenters themselves, if the House judged of it by the enormous number of petitions laying on their table, they might fairly conclude that the Dissenters felt the grievance vitally, and, consequently, that it was one to which the House was bound to give its most mature consideration. Before he concluded, he could not avoid remarking the total absence of any petition in favour of the Test and Corporation acts. This was a sign that no great fear was entertained, on the part of those who had the greatest interest in the established church, that any mighty danger would arise from the repeal of those acts. He was anxious for it, as an act of kindness and conciliation, and he returned his thanks to the noble lord for the ability with which he had brought the question before the House.Mr. Robert Palmer
710An office key, the pick-lock of a place.""To make the symbol of atoning grace,709708707706705704703; I feel how many apologies are due, not only to the hon. gentleman who has given way to me, but to the House itself, for thus early presenting myself to its notice, and for claiming its attention at a moment when the opinions of so many more able and experienced members are anxiously looked for. But, Sir, the present is one of those subjects which have ever made a deep impression on my mind: it is one in which those principles of civil and religious liberty which I have ever been taught to revere, are so inti-
710An office key, the pick-lock of a place.""To make the symbol of atoning grace,709708707706705704703Mr. Speaker
715714713Spartam nactus es, hanc orna.Spartam nactus es, hanc orna.712711 rose and said:—715714713Spartam nactus es, hanc orna.Spartam nactus es, hanc orna.712711Sir R. H. Inglis
pro tempore764pro futuro763762761760759practical758, who said:pro tempore764pro futuro763762761760759practical758Sir T. D. Acland
738737onus probandi said, that if he understood the true principle of a free constitution, it was, that the general rule existed, that no one was to be excluded from any of his civil rights on account of his religious principles. He therefore thought, that if this principle was to be recognised in the present case, the 738737onus probandiLord Althorp
747746745744743 said, it was not long since a disclosure had been made of the course his majesty's ministers meant to take on this occasion. Since that disclosure had been made, he confessed he entertained a very great, and he hoped not an impertinent, curiosity, to hear the arguments on which those gentlemen meant to rest their opposition to this motion. At the commencement of the right hon. Secretary's speech—a speech which the right hon. gentleman would give him leave to say, was not at all like those clear statements which he was accustomed to give, with reference to commercial matters, for his con-
747746745744743Lord Milton
781780779 said, he was anxious to state shortly the grounds upon which his vote would be given, because as that vote would be adverse to the motion of the noble lord, he should be sorry that his motives should be misconstrued, and that he should be supposed to approve of the laws in question, or to think that they afforded any real security to the established church. He was as much a friend, as the noble lord who made this motion to civil and religious liberty; he was an enemy to all interference between man and his conscience; he utterly disbelieved that such interference can ever give security to the church or to the state, it could do no good; it must do evil; it must either turn honest men into hypocrites, or make loyal men discontented. The legitimate objects of civil and political safe-guards, were civil and political institutions; with the secret opinions of the human breast, religious and speculative, the laws of man could not without tyranny interfere, unless such opinions were embodied into acts, and such acts became dangerous to the civil and political institutions of society.781780779Lord Palmerston
 rose and said:—Mr. Secretary Peel
805 said, that the hon. member for Montrose was always trying to induce the House to believe, that the cause of all the distresses of the country was its taxation, and that its only hope of relief from those distresses was in the remission of that taxation. A reduction in the expenditure would not affect the low rate of wages, which was caused by the existence of a redundant population. The lower classes were distressed because their capital and labour did not meet with a sufficient demand. A reduction in the taxes would not meet that evil. As long as persons were out of employment, a remission of taxation would not raise the general condition of the mass of the labouring poor. Other remedies must be resorted to for the removal of that evil. This was a subject of vital importance, and he should reserve himself for other opportunities during the session to enter more at large into the various details connected with it. There was another subject upon which he wished to say a few words. He had often heard it asserted, that the immediate effects of the passing of that measure, in which Ireland was so deeply interested, would be the introduction of capital, and the establishment of manufactories, in that kingdom. Yielding to no man in the deliberate conviction, that the passing of that measure would put an end to a class of evils which might be referred to certain moral causes existing in Ireland, he would at the same time deny, that the abolishing of those causes would operate as a cure for the redundant population. That redundancy was principally, if not totally, caused by the absence of the demand for labour. When gentlemen talked of the granting
805Mr. Wilmot Horton
809808 said, that the act of parliament passed for the regulation of prison discipline had been completely evaded by the magistrates of Middlesex. Last session he had moved for the report of the visiting magistrates in 1825, and it was frightful to see how the prisons had gone on increasing in iniquity, while no remedy had been applied to the evil. That Report stated, that riots and assaults were of daily occurrence in Cold Bath Fields prison; that incorrigible offenders were often confined with those who were comparatively guiltless, and frequently discharged without prosecution. In consequence of receiving this information, he had gone, in October 1826, to that prison to ascertain whether it could be true. He then saw eighty or ninety prisoners confined in one room, and the sleeping place allotted for each was about sixteen inches, in breadth. The greater portion of them, went to sleep in a perfectly naked condition. When he inquired why such a number of human beings were thus pent up in one room, the superintendent stated, that there was no other place for them. He understood from him, that when he went to open the door of this room in the morning, he was nearly overpowered by the smell, and was obliged to leave the door open for several minutes before he could enter; such was the dreadful stench which issued from the apartment. The condition of this prison still remained unaltered. No remedy had been applied but one, which, to the honour of the magistrates of Middlesex, was unique in its way. They dismissed the whole body of the visiting committee. Undoubtedly that was rather an extraordinary mode of proceeding, but in justice he must say, that the magistrates had since repented of their rashness, and taken the offenders again into favour. In pursuance of the Consolidated act, relative to prisons, a large book was laid late every year on the table of the House. He had looked into that book, in order to compare its statements with the report of the visiting magistrates; but he had found only four or rive lines, simply stating that the
809808Dr. Lushington
811l.l.l.810 said, that the establishment of the day-police of the right hon. gentleman was known to have produced great benefit to the public. But the day-police was not new in the city of London. It had existed there for a great number of years. Some allusions had been made to the difficulty resulting from the concurrent jurisdiction exercised by the magistrates of the city with the magistrates of the Borough. But it was impossible that a more general disposition could exist on the part both of the city and county magistrates, to give every facility to the administration of justice. As to the rights and privileges of the city, he could assure the right hon. gentleman, that there would be no difficulty. He would advise him to imitate the police of London. He had heard that night of a parish police. There was no such thing in the city of London. It was
811l.l.l.810Mr. Alderman Wood
812 said, that neither the magistrates of Middlesex nor the police magistrates committed, in the first instance, to Newgate, but to the New Prison, from which, a few days before trial, the prisoners were transferred to Newgate. The learned doctor had complained of the crowded state of the
812Colonel Wood
 said, in explanation, that almost all the committals of the police magistrates were made to Newgate.Mr. Alderman Wood
813 said, he should confine himself to the facts that had come under his own knowledge. While he filled the office of sheriff, it had been his melancholy duty to witness the execution of thirty-six persons. He also visited Newgate three or four days a week, and never found it in the state described by the learned doctor. The crowded state of Newgate was the city's misfortune, and not its fault, and was attributable to the thousands of prisoners that annually passed through it. Now, as to the increase of crime. If the committee about to be appointed was merely to give facility to prosecutions, then all that it would do would be to multiply prosecutions without removing crime. It was his belief that the greater part of the depredations in the city were committed by juvenile depredators; and he thought that the right hon. gentleman would agree with him, that there were much fewer prisoners sent from London than from Middlesex. If any thing better than the present system could be contrived, he was sure the magistrates of London would concur in it. They had, within the last few weeks, inquired diligently into the system of police in the city, and it was their intention to regulate it in the manner which would give the most effectual security to the inhabitants.
813Mr. Alderman Waithman
 was sorry to hear that the county of Somersetshire was more prolific in crime than any other county; but though the convictions were more numerous, it was a curious fact that the prosecutions under the Game-laws were less.Mr. Dickenson
 said, that the police of London was as efficient as in any other part of the country. As to the increase of crime, he believed one of the causes of it to be the low price of ardent spirits. Another cause was the system of compromising felonies. There was now going on in the city a regularly organized plan of stealing from counting-houses books and securities for money. These were the cases in which felonies were generally compromised. He was not at all surprised that persons whose credit was at stake, should be induced to enter into compromises of this nature. He hoped that the committee would inquire closely into the state of the law on this subject, and especially into the act called "Jonathan Wild's act." To convict under that act was extremely difficult. As to the crowded state of Newgate, he lamented it as much as any one; but he was quite sure that the person to whom the unhappy inmates of that prison were committed, treated them with the greatest humanity. If there was any way in which the crowded state of Newgate could be remedied, it would be a great benefit. He should recommend, that prisoners who had bean tried, and sentenced to transportation, should be sent off immediately.Mr. Alderman Thompson
815 said, that there was already on the table of the House the report of a committee that had inquired very fully into the crowded state of the prisons, the cause of the increase of crime, and
815Sir F. Burdett
 replied, and observed, that the hon. baronet was mistaken when he supposed that nothing had taken place subsequent to the report of the committee, of which he had just spoken. He believed that every one of the regulations proposed had been carried into effect. An act had been passed for the improvement of the prison-discipline, and all the provisions of that bill had been acted upon; also an alteration had taken place with respect to the licensing system. An hon. member had complained, that the proposed alterations were only to extend to London and Middlesex; but the hon. gentleman had not understood him aright. His motion was proposed to extend to the metropolis and the districts adjoining thereto; which would of course include a portion of Surrey, Essex, and Kent. When, however, he had referred to the state of crime, as the only documents he had were furnished from the Old Bailey, he had of course been obliged to confine himself to London and Middlesex. He was sorry that the fourth hon. member for London was not present, as no doubt he, like the three worthy aldermen, would have stood up to vindicate the city of London; but he could assure those hon. gentlemen, that he never had the least intention to cast the slightest reflections on the police of the city. All that he had said was, that instead of the police of London being on a concurrent principle, it appeared to act on an exclusive one. With respect to the crowded state of Newgate, that would have been remedied long since, had it not been for a doubt that was entertained, that, by a prescriptive right, arising from long custom, the recorder's report ought to be taken within the limits of London. Steps, however, were taken to relieve the pressure without delay. He had only to observe, that in constituting this committee, he had been anxious to select those magistrates who had been most active in their respective Counties. Several very active members were already too much occupied upon the finance committee to give this the benefit of their labours.Mr. Secretary Peel
820819818817, in addressing the committee, observed, that he felt very great satisfaction at the tone and temper by which the former discussion had been marked. He was happy to say, that in no part of it had angry feeling been manifested: on the one side nothing had been introduced that could give offence to the most zealous friends of the church, nor on the other, had any argument been adduced that could wound the feelings of the Dissenters. In such a collision of opinion, on a subject of this nature, some strong expression of feeling might have been expected, but no such feeling had been expressed. Nothing was said, on the one hand, to give pain to the feelings of those who called for the repeal of the Test and Corporation acts; and on the other hand, not one word had been advanced, which could create soreness or irritation in the minds of the right hon. gentlemen who had opposed the measure. For his own part, looking to the question, as a really important question—as a question connected with national feeling; as a question which touched, in a very material degree, on the rights of the subject—he should not allude to any of those minor divisions which might tend rather to narrow its scope, and to introduce a view of it which it appeared to him to be most desirable to avoid. Indeed, the only part of the question which he thought it necessary to allude to, was the proposition of his hon. friend, the member for Devon (sir T. D. Acland), for a temporary suspension of those acts. This proposition was one of much importance—one that deserved deep consideration. In his opinion, to treat the subject in that way would be to tamper and palter with a
820819818817Lord John Russell
823totidem verbis822821 said, that having been alluded to so particularly by the noble lord who had just sat down, he felt it necessary, in order to guard against misapprehension, to explain what he had stated on a former evening. After what had already passed, it was impossible not to see that, in the opinion of the House of Commons, some decisive steps ought to be taken in the alteration, amendment, or repeal, of these laws, and that the more speedy these measures were, the more soothing would they be to the parties interested, as well as the more effectual for their objects. He was pleased to hear the noble lord call upon the House to legislate upon that question, not as one affecting the interests, or supposed interests, of one party only, but as one of great and general importance. The House had already, by a most marked and he believed, unexpected majority, shewn the sense it entertained, for the just claims of the Dissenters; but he believed he was warranted in saying, that amongst many, if not the great majority, of those who voted for going into the committee, there prevailed the greatest difference of opinion, as to the mode in which the proposed relief ought to be afforded. He had contended, when the question was brought forward very recently, that the interests and feelings of the Established Church were, in this matter, entitled to
823totidem verbis822821Sir T. D. Acland
824 agreed entirely with his hon. friend, that it was a matter of great importance to conciliate the good-will of the Church of England. He was ready to agree to every thing that did not tend to encourage what he considered, to be a very unfounded and mischievous opinion; namely, that these acts afforded any security to the Church of England. He felt a strong objection to the plan of his hon. friend, because it would have the effect of keeping alive those feelings that ought to be suppressed. If a suspension bill were agreed to, the Church of England, on the one side, would look with anxiety for its revival, as their security, while, on the other, the Dissenters would view its enactment as a mark of their degradation. The great reason, however, which induced him to object to such a course was, because it militated against the total repeal of these acts. He thought, however, that there might be introduced into the repeal bill something palatable to the Church, without imposing any ob-
824Lord J. Russell
825 said, that when it was considered that it was not until two o'clock on Monday morning that the motion of the noble lord was carried by a majority of forty-four, he thought that a longer period might be permitted to intervene between the success of that motion and the renewal of a discussion in the committee on the important subject to which that motion referred. For himself, he begged to declare that he had been so engaged during the last two days, that he had neither had time to consult with others upon the subject, nor of forming his own opinion conclusively upon it. But, after the decisive majority with which the motion had been carried, he would put it to the noble lord whether, for the sake of having his measure followed up with final success, he would not be disposed to accept some alternative, instead of the absolute and entire repeal of the Test and Corporation acts. The noble lord should bear in mind, that many members who voted for his motion on the former night, voted only for going into a committee upon these acts, but abstained from pledging themselves to go the full length of a total and unqualified repeal of them. To insure the continued support of those members, it would be worth while to consider whether some mode short of repeal might not advantageously be adopted. Another inducement to the noble lord should be found in the natural anxiety the whole House entertained, that those religious animosities which had been alluded to might be entirely removed, instead of being increased, as they would be, if the measure adopted by the legislature was not one of general satisfaction to the whole community. Again, if the redress of a real practical grievance was the object of the noble lord, and not merely the triumph of an abstract principle, would it not be desirable to shape the measure in such a manner as that it would meet the concurrence of both branches of the legislature, and not set them in collision on a subject which might exasperate feelings which they were all anxious to allay. In offering these suggestions, he wished again to be under-
825Mr. Secretary Peel
826 said, he had hoped that the right hon. gentleman would have proposed some measure which the House could
826Lord Althorp
827 said, he supported the repeal of these acts, on the conviction that it was consistent with the best interests of the established church. He regarded the existence of them as a scandal, which for the credit of the Church should be removed. The simple repeal was proposed by the noble lord; as an amendment to that it was proposed by an hon. baronet to suspend these acts. In his opinion suspension or repeal, for a time, could do no good: as when the time for renewing arrived, fresh dissatisfaction and animosity would be naturally evinced. If by a short oath, unobjectionable to the Dissenters, the objections of those who were opposed to the repeal could be removed, he would not oppose it. If the relief at present prayed for was granted to the Dissenters, it would furnish an additional ground for acceding to the claims of the Catholics. In reply to a question which had been put by the right hon. Secretary, on a former occasion—why in the bill introduced last session, by an hon. baronet, was it not proposed to release the Dissenters from the operation of the Test and
827Dr. Phillimore
 said, he had voted a few nights ago most cordially for the repeal of the laws in question; for he was one who did not believe that the established church was at all protected by them. But, whatever his abstract opinions upon any question were, he was bound to adopt that course which he thought, in the long run, most sure to carry his policy into execution. A right hon. gentleman, now unfortunately no more, had stated, last year, that he opposed the repeal of the Corporation and Test acts, because he conceived that that repeal would militate against the general cause of the Catholics: now he had no hesitation to declare, that he believed that right hon. gentleman himself could not have supported the indemnity system, subject to the real case of grievance which had, in the present debate, been made out against it. At the same time he was not himself entirely of opinion, that the objection of the right hon. gentleman to whom he alluded had been without foundation; or that, when the acts before the House were repealed, some slight loss of strength to the Catholic question might not arise. He was no advocate for delay; he would carry both the question before the House and the Catholic question, that very evening, if he could. And, if he saw reason to believe that the repeal of the laws affecting the Dissenters alone could be carried, without endangering that unanimity of feeling which prevailed with respect to religious disabilities, he would support it. But, if there was a doubt upon this point, he should be induced to hesitate. Unanimity of feeling was his first object; and if that could be best secured by the course of suspension, suspension was the policy which he should prefer. If he were put to his election, to support, without any qualification, the proposition of the noble lord, or to reject it, he should undoubtedly vote in its favour; but he wished the noble lord would consider the suggestion of his right hon. friend.Mr. Wilmot Horton
828 hoped that the noble lord would postpone his motion for three or four days. The resolution declared that it was the opinion of the committee, that the acts should be repealed; therefore, if a bill was brought in upon the report of that
828Mr. Peel
 said, he was favourable to a total repeal. Any partial measure would only have the effect of keeping the grievance alive. The making the Sacramental Test the qualification to office, was the scandal of the Established Church. There could not be a stronger instance than the one referred to, of the last chief magistrate of London, who, it was well known, was a Dissenter, but was nevertheless obliged to take the Sacrament according to the observance of the Established Church, in order to qualify for office. He had no hesitation in saying, that he preferred the repeal to the suspension. He believed that no cause could make the existence of the laws complained of again necessary; but, if they ever should become so, the parliament of that day would find no difficulty in re-enacting them. Repeal, in his opinion, was the only proper course. It was impossible to suppose, after the decision of Tuesday night, that the Dissenters would rest satisfied with suspension.Mr. Wynn
 thought, that as many members had not yet made up their minds as to the course which ought to be pursued, the decision of the question ought, for the present, to be postponed.Mr. G. Bankes
 thought that, after the large majority of the other night, there would be no difficulty, at least until they came into committee on the bill. He believed that the object of the right hon. Secretary was conciliation; but he put it to him, whether delay was the way most likely to effect it. They had heard that night of animosities and probable bickerings; but an annual Suspension bill would not allay that irritation: it would tend to keep open jealousy; and if any serious difference did, in the course of time, arise, the friends to the Church might ask the recall of that suspension. He, therefore, thought the best way was to forward the repeal with as little delay as possible.Mr. Calcraft
 supported the repeal, as the only course likely to satisfy the Dissenters, and as that to which he considered the House had partly consented. It was a remarkable circumstance in the late debate, that not a single member had been found to defend these acts; and if indefensible, they ought not to be continued.Mr. Fergusson
829 understood the proposition of the right hon. Secretary to be made
829Mr. Perceval
 regretted the continuance of the debate, as it seemed likely to disturb that harmony which had characterized the earlier stages of their proceedings; but he put it to the noble lord whether a short delay would not be the most consistent? After the unforeseen majority, he was not prepared, and he believed that many other members were not prepared, to say what course it would be most proper to adopt. By the unexpected decision which the House had come to, it became desirable that it should suspend further proceedings for a short time, to consider the whole bearings of the question, and the consequences of that decision. The noble lord would not prejudice his view of the question by consenting to the delay. If he (Mr. P.) had now intended to bring the question of suspension or repeal to a decision, he would have given the noble lord notice. But he had not considered the subject sufficiently. He could not yet say what would be the best course to adopt, for he had strong objections to adopt the suggestion, that an oath should be substituted as a protection for the Church establishment.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he would grapple at once with the objections to the repeal of the Corporation and Test acts. It was said that they were a barrier to the Established Church. If so, they were a barrier of glass, which any man might break to pieces in a minute. It was a great hardship to the Protestant Dissenters of England, that they should have acts hanging over their heads, which did not affect those of Scotland and Ireland.Sir C. Cole
830 said, that if adjournment would promote the measure, and give satisfaction to the Dissenters, he would not object to it. The only question, he maintained, now under consideration, was repeal or suspension. The question of repeal had been fully taken into consideration. It was included in all the speeches, all the arguments, and in the vote of the House. If he thought that by giving time, the House would agree to his proposition, he would most readily accede to it; but he felt quite confident, that no time would suffice to produce a different conviction in those who were now opposed to the repeal.
830Lord John Russell
 hoped there would be an adjournment. It had been said, that if any member had been taken by surprise, the supporters of the repeal would consent to an adjournment. He believed that several members were so situated. He should support the suspension of the acts in preference to their repeal.Mr. Estcourt
 said, that the right hon. Secretary asked for time, merely to consider the mode in which the measure could be best carried into effect. He concurred in that view, and was sorry that the noble lord had not evinced a similar feeling.Sir E. Knatchbull
 begged to refer the committee to the exact words of the notice of motion given by the noble lord. They were "repeal of the Corporation and Test, acts." What, then, became of the objections of hon. members? Away with these idle pretences; which those who made them knew were pretences; their only object being to regain the vantage ground they had lost, and by delay, to defeat the Dissenters, and not the Dissenters only, but the best interests of the Church.Lord Milton
831 warmly repelled the noble lord's imputations; and declared, upon his honour, that they were wholly foreign to his motives. He had been most unjustly accused of not being actuated by a conciliatory spirit in this discussion. All he would say was, that, after what had passed, he would not only not propose suspension, but would not even accept delay; although that delay was proposed for purposes which, if his proposition had been accepted in the spirit in which it had been made, might have turned out satis-
831Mr. Secretary Peel
 applauded the determined and dignified conduct of the right hon. gentleman. He had come down to the House to vote with the noble mover, in conformity with the decision of the majority of the House; and he had hoped that the measure would have been completed with the temper which ought to be observed in considering a question of so much importance. But instead of friendly co-operation, the noble member for Yorkshire had thrown out the symbol, sign, and ensign of hostility.Sir T. Lethbridge
, in reference to the intimation on the part of the noble member for Yorkshire, that those who wished for the delay of a few days proceeded upon false pretences, said he repelled with indignation the imputation attempted to be cast upon him.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 begged to state, in explanation, that, when he had heard that some members conceived that the repeal of the acts was not the object of the noble lord's motion he had desired the clerk to give him the book, that he might show the exact nature of the motion; that repeal was the end in view, and that those who Stated the contrary were not correct.Lord Milton
 observed that the notice was to repeal the acts, but the motion itself had been for a committee to consider them. He regretted the tone manifested by the noble lord who spoke last, and his introduction into the discussion of unauthorized and unjust aspersions upon those who had differed from him. This was the last thing that the noble mover would desire. He hoped there would be a return to the spirit and temper with which the subject had been introduced, and to which it owed mainly the success it had received.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 intreated the committee to consider the great interests involved in the decision of the present question. He regretted that any irritation had arisen, and trusted it would be allowed to subside.Mr. Calcraft
832 regretted the tone which the discussion had assumed. It
832Lord J. Russell
 was sorry for what had occurred. He had no intention to excite anger.Lord Milton
 expressed his fears that this question, after what had passed, would no longer be discussed without an infusion of party spirit. He regretted the speech which had been delivered by the noble lord, and doubted much whether it would not be doing mischief.Mr. Littleton
 was of opinion, that those who allowed paltry, petty, and personal, feeling to interfere with the broad path of their duty, were unworthy of a seat in that, or in any other House.Colonel Davies
 hoped, that whatever irritation might have been excited, it would not lead to any unfortunate result to this most important question. He must declare, that if any circumstance could induce him to withdraw his confidence from an administration, it would be the circumstance he had just witnessed; namely, the secession of ministers from the House. This was the first time that he had seen all the ministers retire from the House before a decision had been come to on a great question which had been agitating all men's minds. He begged pardon: he saw one minister left.Sir G. Warrender
 thought his hon. friend, could not have heard the speech of his right hon. friend; who had expressed his intention neither to oppose the motion nor to support it. He now learned for the first time that it was a singular course for a minister to leave the House to avoid voting. The discussion was at an end. If he had remained in the House, and a division had been called for, he could not have avoided voting. [Mr. Peel here re-entered the House.]Mr. V. Fitzgerald
833 said, that the hon. baronet had announced the probability of his withdrawing his valuable support from a minister who was liable to moments of irritation. Now, he must say, that if he found his right hon. friend to be a minister
833Lord F. L. Gower
 said, that when he commented on the departure of his right hon. friend he was not aware that he had declared his intention of not voting on the question. He was not apt to give way to feelings of irritation, but he supposed that, on this occasion, he had caught the infection. If he had said any thing objectionable, he was sorry for it.Sir G. Warrender
 said, that he was occupied very agreeably up stairs when the intelligence was conveyed to him that his gallant friend was ready to withdraw his support from the government; nevertheless, he did not allow the intelligence to disturb his repast. The fact was, that having fasted since nine o'clock that morning, and being completely exhausted, he had retired to take some refreshment. He had returned to listen to the attack which was made upon him, but he feared that he should again provoke the indignation of his gallant friend by pursuing the same course by which it had been excited; for it was his intention to leave the House when the question should be put, if it had not already been put from the chair. When he left the House, he intended no disrespect to the noble lord, or to the committee.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that a great deal of valuable information was contained in the Report of the Committee of 1817. He had no hope of any material improvement in the police of the metropolis, unless an end was put to the system of parish police. The right hon. gentleman had alluded to the increase of the population, and he agreed that, whoever compared the police establishment with the population, must be convinced that the time had arrived when the state of the police required consideration. An hon. baronet had alluded to the increased expense of prosecutions; and he concurred with that hon. baronet, that it arose in some measure from the increased facility lately given to prosecutions. Townsend, the Bow-street officer, in his evidence before the committee of 1817, had stated, that he remembered when ten and twenty persons at a time "graced the gibbet," while of late years, he said, we had only a paltry example of one or two brought forward; and from this decrease of capital punishment, Townsend inferred the increase of crime. The hon. member was of opinion, that if some protection was given to the parties concerned in the robberies of banks and receiving stolen goods, from the consequence of their own evidence, considerable benefit would result from it. By referring to the report of the committee of 1817, much time might be saved, in the examination of evidence before the new committee.Mr. D. Barclay
814d.d. said, that he agreed with the hon. member for Aberdeen, that the increase of crime was in a great measure attributable to the increase of taxation. It would be seen, by referring to p. Statistical Account of France, lately published, that the wages of an agricultural labourer per day were 14814d.d.Mr. Monck
799 contended, that the right hon. gentleman, as well as the committee which the noble lord had obtained last year, to inquire into the increase of crime in the country, had shut their eyes to the real causes of it, and had blinked the only question into which it was important for the people that they should institute an inquiry. He was satisfied that the decreased wages paid to labourers, which, in some instances, was reduced two-thirds, and in others one-half, compared to what they were, was one great cause of the increase of crime; but the great evil of all was, excessive taxation. He had heard it stated by the right hon. Secretary, that the increase of our manufactures was one of the causes of increase of crime. He was of a different opinion.—He believed the increase arose from the general want of employment, occasioned by that over taxation which was grinding all classes of the community. We were now paying upwards of sixty millions for taxes annually; and there was but little hope of the evils being removed till that amount was greatly reduced. Another cause of these evils was the emigration of the starving Irish to this country; the conse-
799Mr. Hume
804803802801800 said, that, as his noble friend, the marquis of Lansdowne, had intended to have brought under the consideration of parliament the very question which had been so ably submitted to it that evening by the right hon. gentleman, who had succeeded him as Secretary of State for the Home Department, he felt it to be a duty which he owed to his noble friend, not to remain entirely silent. He would commence by stating, that in almost every word which the right hon. gentleman had said he entirely agreed; but he must, at the same time, take the liberty of urging the right hon. gentleman, with respect to one branch of it, which was of paramount importance, not to approach it either with timidity or apathy. Every man, who had paid the slightest attention to the practical operation of our criminal laws, would readily acknowledge, that one of the great impediments to any efficient improvement of them, was to be traced to the multiplicity and diversity of the peculiar jurisdictions which were now employed in the detecting of crime. When he looked either at the state of the parochial watch, or at the peculiar regulations of the police in the city of London, he felt convinced, that the House, on coming to deal with a question so important to the security and property, and to the moral feelings of the population, would not allow any partial or parochial jurisdiction to stand in the way of their doing what was right to their constituents, and of their advancing the essen-
804803802801800Mr. Spring Rice
798797796795ll7947937927911,144,531
1,144,531837,012Middlesex
837,012Middlesex182,085Westminster
182,085Westminster125,434London
125,434London
1,144,531
1,144,531837,012Middlesex
837,012Middlesex182,085Westminster
182,085Westminster125,434London
125,434London7907897883,3841827
3,38418273,4571826
3,45718262,9021825
2,90218252,621In 1824
2,621In 1824
3,3841827
3,38418273,4571826
3,45718262,9021825
2,90218252,621In 1824
2,621In 18242,5031823
2,50318232,5391822
2,53918222,4801821
2,48018212,773In the year 1820
2,773In the year 1820
2,5031823
2,50318232,5391822
2,53918222,4801821
2,48018212,773In the year 1820
2,773In the year 1820787786785; I am desirous of calling the attention of the House to a subject, which at first sight, perhaps, may appear to be limited in its application, and local in its objects; but which, in point of fact, is connected with considerations of the utmost importance to the well-being of the country. I allude, Sir, to the increase of
798797796795ll7947937927911,144,531
1,144,531837,012Middlesex
837,012Middlesex182,085Westminster
182,085Westminster125,434London
125,434London
1,144,531
1,144,531837,012Middlesex
837,012Middlesex182,085Westminster
182,085Westminster125,434London
125,434London7907897883,3841827
3,38418273,4571826
3,45718262,9021825
2,90218252,621In 1824
2,621In 1824
3,3841827
3,38418273,4571826
3,45718262,9021825
2,90218252,621In 1824
2,621In 18242,5031823
2,50318232,5391822
2,53918222,4801821
2,48018212,773In the year 1820
2,773In the year 1820
2,5031823
2,50318232,5391822
2,53918222,4801821
2,48018212,773In the year 1820
2,773In the year 1820787786785Mr. Speaker
807806 said, he felt himself called upon to address a few observations to the House, particularly after what had fallen from his right hon. friend, in allusion to the county of Kent. His right hon. friend had said, that he considered the situation of this country was nearly approaching that state in which the population had outgrown the institutions of the country. He would take the observation in the qualified sense in which his right hon. friend intended to use it, applying it only to the police institutions. In that observation he entirely accorded; and he was gratified to learn from his right hon. friend, that he had no reason to extend it further. He had heard with satisfaction, that this inquiry was not to apply exclusively to the metropolis, but was to be extended to the towns in the neighbourhood of that great city. He rejoiced at this circumstance; for whatever might be the difficulties which the police of the metropolis had to struggle with—however arduous might be the duties of the magis-
807806Sir E. Knatchbull
844843842841840839838837836835 said, that in rising to offer to the House the observations which he felt it his duty to make upon the question, he laboured under no ordinary difficulty. The subject which his hon. and learned friend had brought under the notice of the House was large and embarrassing, being no less than the whole system of municipal law in this country; and further, branching out into the legal policy of the most distant dependencies of the nation. The minuteness of detail with which his learned friend, in the course of his address, explained the various topics which he submitted to the
844843842841840839838837836835The Solicitor-General
 observed, that he had mentioned no names in his statement, and had abstained from doing so for fear of disturbing any existing titles.Mr. Brougham
861860859858857856elegitbonâ fide855854assumpsitindebitatus assumpsitindebitatus assumpsit.853852851850l.l.l.tales.849tales.848tales847846845.— I thought my hon. and learned friend had mentioned one name, but as I find myself mistaken, I will follow the example of my hon. and learned friend. In the case of which he has been speaking, the estate went back to the Crown—and what did the Crown do upon that occasion? It acted as it always has done in such cases—looked out for the person who came nearest to the situation of a claimant, in order to present that person with the estate. Nothing is more common than such proceedings on the
861860859858857856elegitbonâ fide855854assumpsitindebitatus assumpsitindebitatus assumpsit.853852851850l.l.l.tales.849tales.848tales847846845The Solicitor-General
viva voce"What makes best for him in his answer?""Does not in Chancery every man swearsubpœna,866mesne process,ex delicto,indebitatus assumpsit.indebitatus assumpsit865864863862 said:—Sir, the Solicitor-general has complained of my hon. and learned friend, the member for Winchelsea, for having ill-treated the justices of the peace. I must say, that I am surprised to hear him make this accusation; and I am the more surprised, because, from something which fell from an hon. member yesterday, it seems that the same opinion is entertained by others. I do think that there is nothing more improper than to exhibit an excessive soreness of feeling at any attack, when that attack, instead of being made on good men, clearly applies only to the unworthy members of a particular body. But if my hon. and learned friend has ill-treated the magistrates of the country in his attack, they have been equally ill-treated by the learned Solicitor-general in his defence of them. As one of the proofs that my hon. and learned friend's attack was improper, he has stated the number of justices of the peace in the United Kingdom, and the paucity of cases which come from them before the King's Bench. Why, Sir, that is the very case which my hon. and learned friend makes against them. But few appeals come from their jurisdiction before that court, in consequence of the difficulties thrown in the way of bringing them there. In saying this I do not undervalue the services of men who render justice to
viva voce"What makes best for him in his answer?""Does not in Chancery every man swearsubpœna,866mesne process,ex delicto,indebitatus assumpsit.indebitatus assumpsit865864863862Mr. George Lamb
867 interposed. His hon. and learned friend was mistaken; he had contended the very reverse. He had objected to all that are called presumptions in construing and weighing evidence, and he had maintained that as one. It was a rule of evidence, that an accomplice was
867Mr. Brougham
869indebitatus assumpsit.868alibi,alibis.—I am happy to find that I do not differ from my hon. and learned friend, as much as I expected. The difficulty of convicting in cases of perjury is one of the great blots in the law, both civil and criminal. Perhaps this topic is not so naturally connected with the common law as with the criminal law. Every one at all connected with criminal proceedings, must have constantly seen perjured 869indebitatus assumpsit.868alibi,alibisMr. G. Lamb
879l.l.l.l.arbitrium878d.s.877876875874arbitrium873momentum872in arbitrioBanconisi priusnisi prius871nisi prius.mesneassumpsit,tort870 said:—In the course of the observations which I may make upon this question, I will state on what points I concur with, or differ from, the hon. and learned gentleman who introduced it. In the first place, I agree that
879l.l.l.l.arbitrium878d.s.877876875874arbitrium873momentum872in arbitrioBanconisi priusnisi prius871nisi prius.mesneassumpsit,tort870The Attorney General
solvit post diem,883solvit post diem,solvit ad diem,solvit ante diemsolvit post diem,solvit ante diem, solvit ad diem,indebitatus882881880 observed, that the hon. and learned gentleman, the Solicitor-general, had objected to the general inquiry into the abuses of the law, sought for by the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea, and had proposed to limit the power of the Commission to two objects: first, to the state of the law respecting real property; and secondly, to the progress of an action at law from its inception to its termination. He would confine the few observations he had to make, to the latter of these propositions, which, taken in the enlarged sense in which he thought it ought to be taken, would include every abuse and defect in the proceedings of our common-law courts, from the commencement of an action (including the arrest) up to judgment and execution; and he hoped that no part of the law or of the practice, which obtained in the course of these proceedings, would be withdrawn from the cognizance of the Commissioners. He objected to their being limited to the mere practice of the courts, by which comparatively little good would be done.solvit post diem,883solvit post diem,solvit ad diem,solvit ante diemsolvit post diem,solvit ante diem, solvit ad diem,indebitatus882881880Mr. Fergusson
 said, the case he had put was that of an executor plaintiff.Mr. Brougham
887886885884l. said, that no doubt made a difference, but he had understood his hon. and learned friend to have laid down the principle generally as applicable to all cases.887886885884l.Mr. Fergusson
The rising sun night's vulgar light destroy."Chang'd like the world's great scene, when, without noise,Finds no distemper while 'tis chang'd by you—"Still as you rise, the State, exalted too,897896l.895l.l.l.l.Juges de Paix,l.894893892891890889888 said, it had struck him that it would be some advantage to the House, at the present period of the debate, especially after the subject of the administration of law in the colonies and other topics had been introduced, which did not strictly apply to the question before the House—if he took that opportunity of explaining to the House the advice that it was the intention of the government to give to the Crown, with respect to the motion which the hon. and learned gentleman had submitted to the House. If he had understood the speech of that hon. and learned gentleman aright, it seemed to be rather an explanation of his general and particular views on the topics concerning
The rising sun night's vulgar light destroy."Chang'd like the world's great scene, when, without noise,Finds no distemper while 'tis chang'd by you—"Still as you rise, the State, exalted too,897896l.895l.l.l.l.Juges de Paix,l.894893892891890889888Mr. Secretary Peel
902901900899898 then addressed the House. He observed, that it was quite impossible that the numerous, complicated, and varied systems which were touched upon in the speech of his hon. and learned friend, the member for Winchelsea, could be intimately known by all or by any one of the members of the commission, however numerous. The first thing they must do, would be to divide the commission into a number of sub-commissions, if he might be allowed the phrase; and each sub-com-
902901900899898Mr. Sugden
906905904903 said, that, if he had been disposed to differ with the right hon. Secretary who spoke last but one, in the conclusion he had come to upon this subject, he yet felt so strong a conviction of the right hon. gentleman's sincerity, and thought him so much entitled to the gratitude of the House and the country for his useful labours in reforming the Criminal-law, that he should most readily have surrendered his own opinion to the judgment and experience of the right hon. gentleman. He was bound to say, however, that he entirely concurred in the views taken by the right hon. Secretary upon
906905904903Sir James Scarlett
.—I never proposed the admission of hear-say evidence.Mr. Brougham
.—I never supposed my learned friend to have done so.Sir J. Scarlett
.—But you used the word "also."Mr. Brougham
910909908 said, he was ready to ask pardon of his learned friend for the use of that unlucky word "also," and, if he would not further interrupt him, would inform him, that he was alluding not to him, but to the hon. member for Dungarvon; who, besides other observations on the rules of evidence, though not relating to hear-say, had mentioned the rejection of the testimony of a party in his own cause. Now, he was conscious that he might be thought an incompetent judge of the merits of a system of which he was in the daily practice. It was too true, that men were apt to be prepossessed by their own habits and practice, and he perhaps ought to entertain a doubt of the value of his own opinion upon the rule in question. But he could state as a fact, that, during the course of a long personal experience, he never above twice or thrice in his life found it expedient to read the answer of an opponent upon oath obtained by a bill of discovery. In fact, men hardly ever thought themselves in the wrong in their own causes; the necessary result of which was, that they told their own story, even upon oath, so much in their own favour; that it was impossible for their antagonists to use it. A court of Equity would not permit the answer of a party to be read as evidence in his own behalf. And he was sorry, but bound to state, that in a very recent instance, when a court of Equity had directed a party to be examined in a court of law, in support of his own case, the most gross perjury had taken place. Upon this point, he repeated, that the constitution of the tribunal renders it proper to exclude such testimony. A judge might, perhaps, make due allowance for the passions and feelings which excite a party in his own cause; but if such evidence were adduced before a jury it would throw upon the advocate, in every case, the necessity of offering to them in each address, an essay upon human nature, and metaphysical dissertations upon the influence of motives upon the conduct and feelings of men, which would be thrown away before such a tribunal. Dissertations of this nature, as his hon. and learned friend, the member for Winchelsea, well knew were too frequent in the lengthy pleadings of the Scots' courts, which were addressed to most intelligent judges, but which, however proper in those courts, would serve only to confound and perplex a jury.910909908Sir J. Scarlett
911 said, he wished to offer a few words upon the constitution of a court in which himself had practised for many years; namely, the court of Delegates. The House would be aware that this court, which was the last tribunal of appeal from the maritime and ecclesiastical courts, had been a source of complaint for more than a century; repeated applications having been made within that time to the Crown to change the constitution of it. As the practice stood, the court was composed of three common-law judges, whom it was difficult to get together, and who, when assembled, were not familiar, from their professional habits and experience, with the civil law: and to assist these learned persons, three counsel from the court were added, who were necessarily always of those not immediately in the highest estimation, as those who were so were generally concerned on one side or the other in the cause. The delay which the difficulty of assembling the common-law judges led to, rendered the court almost valueless for the despatch of business. But the most glaring part of the grievance was the incompetency of the constitution of that tribunal: the decisions of the first civil judges were reviewed by judges not practising the civil law at all, and by assistant counsel, whose standing and reputation were by no means necessarily such as to qualify them for so delicate a duty. The hon. and learned member concluded by suggesting an improvement in the constitution of the court; the chief feature of which was, that one civil judge should, in all cases, sit with the court of Delegates, for the purpose of as-
911Dr. Phillimore
 shortly observed upon that part of the inquiry, which was to apply to the power intrusted to magistrates. In his opinion, the power of transportation for life was a very dangerous one to be exercised at quarter-sessions by persons whose habits of receiving evidence, when not directed or controlled by any presiding barrister, were frequently highly lax and irregular.Mr. Carter
923922921920919918917l.tales,l.tales,tales,916915914913912 commenced his reply by assuring the House, that the patient attention with which he had been heard by the House on a former evening, when he brought the important subject of the administration of the law under its consideration, would induce him to trespass but for a short time on its patience at that late hour. It was the more unnecessary, indeed, for him to do so, as the observations which had been made that evening did not furnish any very ample matter of remark in reply from him. He had, in the first place, to discharge a duty imposed on him by his hon. and learned friend (sir J. Scarlett) who had been obliged to leave the House; namely, the explanation of a point which his hon. and learned friend had omitted to notice; and which he was about to enter upon after his observations on the speech of the hon. member for Dungarvon, but which he had been prevented from doing by his (Mr. B.'s) accidental interruption. The point to which he alluded, referred to the practice of special pleading, which had been attacked by the hon. member for Dungarvon. Upon this point he agreed with his hon. and learned friend; and he was glad to be confirmed in his opinion by an authority of such high experience and talent, that all that was wanting to render special pleading perfectly competent to its purpose, was to bring back the system to its ancient rigour and simplicity. He would have the pleadings made simple, to prevent misconstruction and misapprehension; but in confining the power to plead, and in diminishing the number of counts, he would not leave, as at present, the judges with the power of nonsuiting the parties, because some trivial and verbal mistake had been committed. That would be a great injustice. So many counts were now necessary, be-
923922921920919918917l.tales,l.tales,tales,916915914913912Mr. Brougham
 called the attention of the House to the state of the question. Certain persons had approached the House with a petition which concluded in this way—"Your petitioners represent to your honourable House that they have no representative of their own in the House, and they pray that they may be heard by their counsel, in support of the petition, against the enactment of the proposed bill." The question was, whether the House would suffer the petition to be referred to the committee, and then allow the petitioners to be heard by counsel on the petition.The Speaker
 shaped his motion accordingly.Mr. G. Bankes
 having risen, counsel was ordered to withdraw. The hon. member proceeded to oppose the hearing of counsel until all the evidence had been heard.Mr. Tennyson
 thought there was no difference in the proceeding on this occasion and on a bill affecting private property. The custom was to call in witnesses to prove the preamble of the bill; then to hear the argument first, and the evidence after.Mr. Littleton
 was for not limiting the petitioners, as to the time when they were to be heard against the bill.Mr. Peel
 was only anxious to discharge his duty to the petitioners, and would be governed by the opinion of the committee.Mr. G. Bankes
 argued, that the proper time for hearing counsel on the part of the petitioners, was after evidence had been heard in support of the bill which they opposed.Mr. Wynn
 was of opinion that the petitioners' counsel ought to be heard first.The Attorney-General
 objected to hearing counsel in this stage of the proceedings. To hear counsel before the case of the complainants was closed, appeared to hint to be manifestly absurd.Mr. Tennyson
 conceived that the way in which the House was proceeding was unconstitutional. If a member's seat were attacked, he got up, made his defence, and called his witnesses; and here they were about to disfranchise a borough without giving the petitioners a similar privilege. He claimed for these individuals the same right as that enjoyed by a member when he defended his seat. Counsel ought to be called in and heard in their defence.The Attorney-General
 believed, that it had not been usual to call on any member for his defence, until the whole case against him had been gone through. All he contended for was, that the whole evidence in support of the preamble should be concluded before the evidence for the defence was begun. It would be inconvenient to hear the defence, in parts; and it would be unjust, after the defence was opened, to examine evidence against the petitioners.Mr. Wynn
 contended, that there was a distinction between this case and that of a private bill. In this case they had already heard a considerable part of the evidence; indeed, all that would ever be taken on oath had been already printed and circulated. Many of the members had expressed their opinion, that that evidence would be alone sufficient to warrant the disfranchisement. The committee, therefore, would not be hearing counsel against a shadow, but against that which would probably be the best evidence that could be obtained against the borough.Mr. G. Bankes
 agreed with the hon. gentleman, and moved, that "Counsel should be at once called in, and heard against the preamble."Mr. Littleton
 remarked, that the petition was, that counsel might be heard against the enactments of the bill, and not against the preamble.Mr. Tennyson
928 said, they were then in the middle of the plaintiff's case, and he thought it would be very strange if, before the plaintiff, had sustained his case by all the evidence he could produce, he
928Mr. D. W. Harvey
 was of opinion, that the learned counsel ought to be allowed to decide for himself, when it would be prudent for him to address the House. The present case was like finding a bill before a grand jury, and it would be a most unusual thing if the party accused entered on his defence before all the witnesses were heard on whose testimony the bill was either to be affirmed or dismissed. He would, however, leave it to the decision of the learned counsel, whose ability and acuteness would leave him to wave the privilege of addressing the House in the present stage of the business, if such a step should appear to him to be calculated to injure his clients.Mr. Peel
929 said, he felt himself only capable of answering the question in general terms. He was quite sure that the course which might be considered by the committee the best mode of proceeding would be that which would give him the fullest opportunity of doing his duty towards his clients. Owing to causes chiefly of an accidental nature, he had been unable to attend last Monday to object to the principle of the bill; and it was, he apprehended, highly probable that, by the time the evidence was gone through, he should be called by his avocations to another part of the country. He had no doubt that an ample opportunity would be afforded, when the evidence in support of the bill had closed, so that no enactment might be made to the prejudice of the parties concerned with-
929Mr. Denman
 said, that as the learned counsel was satisfied that the course the committee might follow would be conformable to the ends of justice, and as he had not stated that it was absolutely necessary to the interests of his clients that he should then address the committee, he thought it useless that counsel should be heard until after the evidence had been gone through. The committee could not take into their account any circumstances of private convenience; it was the duty of the petitioners to provide themselves with counsel who would be able to attend to their interests. It would be proper, therefore, to move "that the Counsel be informed that they would not be heard until after the evidence was concluded."Mr. Secretary Peel
l.931ll930—Was a solicitor. Had lived at Retford and in the neighbourhood thirty-three years. Had seen many elections in the course of passing on. Was concerned in one. It is generally understood that forty guineas is paid after the election; twenty guineas each member; that is notorious; it is not a secret; I believe it is known to every one in the town. Had been concerned in the election for, 1812. Mr. Osbaldiston and Mr. Marsh were returned. Upon that occasion I saw a great deal of election-money paid. One or two I paid myself, in 1814, for Mr. Osbaldiston. About sixty or seventy voters were paid in one day. I have in my pocket a list of the whole of the persons who were paid. It was made out at the time they were paid, by myself. It is all in my own hand-writing. It only contains a list of those living at Retford and the neighbourhood; there were some at Nottingham, and some at Manchester, of whom I know nothing. It contains a list of about seventy-five burgesses. They had borrowed some little money of me; their names are mentioned, and that money they had of me was taken off the twenty-one guineas, and so it was paid
l.931ll930By Mr. Tennyson.
 said, he would only ask witness how many of those persons, to whom payments had been made, he knew to be alive now?—Witness said he could not exactly say. There were only a few of them dead to his knowledge.Mr. Denman
932—He keeps an inn. Was employed in 1814, by Mr. Osbaldiston, to go to Retford, and pay money to the voters. Witness believed that the voters received twenty guineas a-piece at that time, but had no papers relative to the
932By Mr. Tennyson.
l.l.934l.l.l.l.l.933l.l.l.l..—Was a clerk in the Retford bank in 1818 and 1819, and received 100l.l.934l.l.l.l.l.933l.l.l.l.By Mr. Tennyson
.—You have stated your belief that this money was paid to Ledbeater? Yes; I only stated my belief of it.—Do you think it possible you could at any period of your life have delivered many hundred pounds in small parcels to the bellman of the town, and not have recollected it to the last day of your life? I only speak from recollection. I certainly cannot state the thing, because I only state my conviction that I think it was done; even now I cannot say most positively it was done. [The witness was informed that was no answer to the questions, and was cautioned by the chairman to answer the questions as they were put.]By Mr. Baring
lll.935.—Give an answer to the question. I can only state to the best of my belief; I can only say I never made such a payment in a particular way, that it makes that impression upon my mind that it was paid for the purposes I have stated.—In answer to another question, witness said parcels were made up in sums of twenty guineas. He then went on to state, in answer to other questions, that, if any of the freemen took money for their votes, he did not believe that all did. He could not say whether there were ten or five who had not taken money; but
lll.935By Mr. Tennyson
.—Supposing there were packets, you would have made them up? I presume so.—Supposing you saw packets, and you were the person who made them up, would you have sealed them, or not? I cannot say.—Do you think it probable? I really cannot say.—Would the inclosures in the packets consist of gold—of sovereigns at that time? I cannot say in what way.—Supposing there were packets, they would probably contain notes of your own bank? It is highly probable they would.—Supposing the payment was made in packets, is it not probable it would be made at the banking-house? I cannot say, for I do not recollect any thing about it.By Mr. Peel
936.—You have said you have given up all your vouchers to Mr. Crompton? They are all given up to Mr. Crompton.—You say that you applied to Mr. Crompton since to lend you these vouchers? Yes.—What was his reply? That he had received them, but having the highest reliance on the honour and fidelity of our house, that we should do nothing wrong; he had looked cursorily over the things, and on
936By Mr. D. W. Harvey
 observed, that the committee could not suffer its dignity to be trifled with in this way. He would appeal to the committee whether this man's answers could be believed. Something ought to be done to support the dignity of the House, which ought not to be trifled with in this manner. He should move, that the witness had been guilty of gross prevarication.Mr. Alderman Waithman
937 asked, how, if the inquisitorial power of the House was to be exercised, that power could ever be exercised if it was treated in this manner? One phrase was perpetually in this man's mouth. In a well-known case, a poor man who came from Italy, got great disgrace for using the same phrase. Here was a man from a short distance who had entertained the committee for an hour and a half, with
937Mr. Baring
 thought it doubtful whether the witness had been guilty of prevarication; it seemed a wilful suppression of the truth.Mr. Peel
 agreed, that the conduct of the witness did not amount to gross prevarication, although it was evidently a wilful suppression of truth.The Attorney General
 confessed that he did not know what prevarication was, if the witness had not been guilty of it.Mr. Wynn
l.l and others.—She is the widow of the late Mr. Thornton. Her husband was in the habit of employing others to pay the election-money. A memorandum-book, which stated certain payments made by him on those occasions, was produced. At the elections of 1818 or 1820, he had given 21l.lBy Mr. Tennyson
938 and others.—Remem-bersthree election sat Retford before the last. Recollects Mr. Evans's and Mr. Crompton's election, in 1818. He received forty guineas for his vote from each. Mr. Cottam, since dead, paid him with his own hand the consideration for his vote, enclosed in a letter. He was in a room at Mansfield on the occasion. It was on the part of Mr. Crompton. There were six other freemen present, some of whom got letters at the same time. In 1818, Mr. Thornton
938By Mr. Tennyson
 was called in, and examined,Samuel Hindley
 He is freeman of Retford, a cordwainer by occupation, and magistrate of the borough. He was present when Mr. Thornton canvassed his journeymen. They were given assurances that all would be made right in the event of their supporting him. Understood by that expression the forty guineas. He heard similar expressions made use of upon former occasions. There were about one hundred and twenty freemen in Retford; but he would not undertake to say how many had been remunerated for their votes. He had received forty guineas for his vote at every election previous to the last; at which he did not vote. There were, he understood, about forty freemen who would not receive bribes. Being examined afterwards upon this point by a "member," he said he did not believe there were forty freemen who would not receive bribes.By Mr. Tennyson.—
953952951950949debouchement.948947946l.l.,945l.944l.l.l.943942941940939 said, that he had given notice of three motions for that evening. The first was
953952951950949debouchement.948947946l.l.,945l.944l.l.l.943942941940939Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, that the repayment of any sum of money advanced to the emigrants would be much easier than was generally anticipated. To prove his assertion he referred to the evidence given by Mr. Benton before the Emigration Committee. He was convinced that, if the emigration was conducted upon a wise and suitable plan, and if the settlers could be placed, not at a distance from the cultivated part of the Canadas, but upon the confines of civilization; so as to be enabled, after planting their own land, to earn some remuneration by labouring for others, it would require no assistance from this country to support the settler after he had once been sent out. Besides, even if he could support himself, the Legislative Assembly of Canada had declared itself willing to give him assistance. If government would either give up part of the Crown lands, or should part with the supremacy over them, the assembly would provide for the support of every indigent person who might be sent over into that province. He believed there was greater difficulty experienced in preventing settlers from going from Canada into the United States, than in providing for them in that colony. One of the greatest objections to emigration to Canada was the tenure under which land was held in that colony. A law was passed several years ago to remove those objections, but it had never been carried into effect.Mr. Baring
 said, he had no sanguine expectations of success from the scheme which the right hon. gentleman had propounded to the House. In order to make such a scheme of advantage to England, it must be attended not only with an alteration of the whole system of our Poor-laws, but with some measure which would prevent the influx of such numbers of Irish paupers as were daily finding their way over into England. He was decidedly of opinion, that there was little chance of any repayment of the money advanced to the emigrants for the purpose of carrying them abroad.Colonel Davies
 agreed, that the subject demanded their most serious attention. He did not, however, think that the House was furnished at present with the means of forming a correct judgment on the details of the plan. There was no person who was more convinced of its importance than he was; for he thought it the best, and, indeed, the only way of relieving the distresses of both England and Ireland; and he considered it as much an English as an Irish question, and one of as great importance as any taken up by the leading politicians of the day, whether with regard to the freedom of trade, the education of the people, or Catholic emancipation. He thought the right hon. gentleman deserved the highest credit for the perseverance and ability with which he had called the attention of the House to the subject.Sir F. Burdett
956 agreed entirely with the hon. baronet, that this was by no means an Irish question, but one as closely connected with the welfare and happiness of England as any that could occupy the attention of parliament. The subject was one of great importance, even if taken in no other view than that it would give a check to the progress of misery, the termination of which no one could foresee. As to the Poor-laws of England, it would be his duty to bring this matter shortly before the House, and he would therefore abstain from making any observation upon it. He only wished now to thank the
956Mr. Slaney
 asked the Secretary for the Colonies, whether it really was the intention of government to re-introduce the Passengers' act, after the report of the last session?Sir J. Graham
962 said, he felt, in common with his right hon. friend, that no matter required earlier attention than the revival of certain provisions of the Passengers' act. If the hon. baronet had seen all the reports from New Brunswick and the other colonies, to which there was a considerable emigration last year, he would be satisfied of the propriety of such a course. Those who arrived brought with them contagious disorders of the worst description: the gaol fever devastated whole townships, to the destruction, in some instances, of not less than one-tenth of the population. The interests of humanity loudly demanded that immediate measures should be taken to secure for the passengers in those vessels a sufficient space, and a due attention to their comforts and accommodation. There were many provisions in the old act of an objectionable nature, and which government did not propose to revive; but no time should be lost in reviving the material provisions of the act, as the season was fast approaching when vessels with passengers would be clearing for the Colonies and North America. He would not enter then upon the discussion of the subject immediately before the House, nor examine whether there existed an excess of population beyond that for which employment could be found. But, although that was an evil in itself, there were other evils and other considerations which should be attended to. One of the greatest of these—an evil not impossible in any country, and not improbable in this—was, that there might exist a great emigration from amongst the population without a corresponding emigration of capital; and thus they would be only transferring a portion of the mischief existing to other quarters of the world.
962Mr. Secretary Huskisson
 said, that after a full deliberation the Emigration Committee had recommended the repeal of the act which it was now proposed to revive, on the ground that it had prevented the emigration of thousands to America. It increased the expense, and added to the difficulty of conveying passengers thither. Before the repeal of this act for the regulation of passage vessels, disease as contagious and distress as great, were wafted to the shores of America, as subsequently. These facts would be found detailed in the report of the Emigration committee. He saw no reason why this act should be revived; but if it was the intention of government to introduce a bill, as this certainly would be, in contradiction to the recommendation of the Emigration committee, he trusted time would be allowed to examine into and consider the measure.Mr. Hume
963 confessed he was unable to understand the nature of those pure abstract principles which were to prevent them from interfering where the interests of humanity were at stake. He could not conceive the meaning of those general principles which were never to bend to circumstances. During the short time that he had been in his present office, a variety of documents had reached him upon the matter, and amongst others a letter from sir J. Kempt, who commanded on the Halifax station. He wrote, that during the last season the ship "James" arrived there from Ireland, with emigrants. She sailed with a hundred and sixty on board, of whom five died on the passage, and thirty-five were left at Newfoundland, being unable to proceed. The remaining one hundred and twenty, with the crew, arrived at Halifax, labouring under typhus fever. The population of Halifax amounted to seven thousand, and in the lapse of ten months eight hundred had fallen victims
963Mr. Secretary Huskisson
964 said, that if he had not been one of those who recommended the repeal of these regulations, he would not have addressed the House. Certainly, on the evidence before the committee, they had resolved to do away with all regulations respecting passengers. He was willing to take his share of the responsibility of having been a party to this rather hasty decision; but, at the same time, on the evidence before the committee, he did not see how they could avoid the conclusion to which they had come. If great practical evils, however, were found to result from the removal of the regulations, he had no objection to the introduction of a modified bill for their revival. He had lately had an opportunity of seeing the correspondence to which his right hon. friend had alluded. Having attentively read through these details, he was satisfied that some restrictions were necessary to restrain the excessive cupidity of the adventurers,
964Mr. Stanley
s. said, he had no wish to oppose this measure, if sufficient time were given for obtaining information from Ireland, and from other parts interested in the question. He considered it very unwise that they should legislate without having the requisite information to proceed upon. Certainly, if emigration was good for any thing, it should be made as cheap as possible. If emigration from Ireland to England could be effected at 10s.Mr. Warburton
965 said, that, from his connexion with the colonies, such a multitude of papers had come under his observation,
965Mr. Robinson
966 defended the conduct of
966Sir J. Graham
s.s.958 said, there were more difficulties opposed to the plan recommended by the hon. member for Wiltshire, than to that introduced by his right hon. friend. If the corn-laws, the currency, and all those other difficulties, were disposed of, then they might think of cultivating the waste lands of Ireland, in order to give employment to the lower orders. It was, however, the opinion of many, and especially of those who were advocates for the principles of free trade, that too much land was already under the plough; and sure he was, that in England
s.s.958Colonel Wood
 was called in, and examinedMr. William Grant
practice.—He always received these presents about the time of elections. Never received such things at any other times. The present he received was in bank-notes. Could not say exactly what he did with them. He took care of them. He put them into practice.By Mr. Fergusson.
968practice—Did you count them before you put them into 968practiceBy Mr. Fergusson.
 was called in, and examined.—Had not voted at any election but the last for twenty-one years. Received twenty guineas after the members were returned. Had had that evening a conversation with alderman Parker in the lobby, who told him, that no man had occasion to commit himself.R. Hodgkinson
 was called in, and examined. He was town-clerk of Retford. He was an attorney.—Have you received any election money?—I appeal to the Chair whether I am bound to answer that question or not.E. C. Brown
—The witness was not in law bound to answer any question which might criminate himself. The other witnesses who had answered had answered voluntarily.The Attorney-General.
970 said, he rose for the purpose of repelling the coarse, unfounded, and wanton, attack which had been made upon him by the hon. member for Staffordshire. The hon. member had charged him with ignorance of the law on this question, and had added that his ignorance was the least of it. How was the hon. member warranted in making such a wanton attack on him? Had he said that if they compelled the witness to answer any questions put to him, they were not bound to cast round him the mantle of their protection, as to the consequence of his answers? But the hon. member had implied that something of this kind was meant by him, and had taxed him with ignorance of the law of parliament. He had been longer in parliament than the hon. member, and knew the practice of parliament, as well as he did: but he would not retaliate or reciprocate his wanton attack, for he disdained such rustic coarseness. He had merely objected that a witness was not legally bound to criminate himself, and at once the hon. member accused him of ignorance. He could not tamely bear such language as that which the hon. member had vomited forth. The hon. member was wholly unjustified in the coarse attack he had made upon him: and he trusted it might be permitted to him, as the Attorney-general, who, though Attorney-general, was still a member of that House, to repel it as he now did. He would say, that no
970The Attorney-General
 said, he was sure his hon. friend, the member for Staffordshire, would see, on more cool reflection, that the attack he had made upon his learned friend had called for the warmth of expression with which he had met it. He had risen for the purpose of begging that any remarks arising from personal feeling might give way to the important subject under discussion. They were then acting in a different course from their ordinary proceeding, and it was of the utmost importance that they should go on with good temper. His learned friend had laid down the legal rule, consistent with justice and equity, that no man was bound to give an answer which might criminate himself; but, on the other hand, it was not meant to be denied, that as the witness before the committee was to be protected from the consequence of his answers, his case was taken out of the general rule; for if the witness could refuse to answer any question put to him, no investigation by that House could take place. In that respect, the House differed from the courts of law; and he remembered the case of a witness, an attorney, who was examined at that bar, who refused to divulge the secrets of his client; but that was overruled, and the House declared that the rules of the law courts did not apply; that for the ends of public justice it was necessary that he should answer, he being protected from the consequences. On these grounds, he was compelled to answer. The case before the House was one which, in his opinion, called for an application of the same rule; but he thought it was necessary that the witness should be informed that in answering, he would be protected from the consequences of his answers, He would suggest, therefore, that the resolution of the House of the 26th of March, 1818, be read to the witness.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that nothing had fallen from him, that ought to have excited the irascibility in which the Attorney-general had so intemperately indulged. In what he had stated, he was not conscious that there had been any vulgarity or coarseness.Mr. Lyttleton
—How came it to be sent to you?—I was at that time a poor boy writing in the office in which I have now the honour to be a partner.By Mr. Peel.
 examined.— Is a burgess of East Retford, and voted at the elections of 1812, 1818, and 1820. He received nothing for his vote in 1812, nothing in 1818, and nothing in 1820. He did not get either money or present on any of those occasions; nor did any member of his family, to his knowledge, get money on his account. Knows William Newton. Having repeated his denial, he was ordered to withdraw.William Leadbetter
l.l.l. was examined.—Is clerk to a solicitor at Retford. Knows W. Leadbetter, and heard him admit that he had got money at the election of 1812, on the part of Mr. Osbaldiston, and a similar consideration at the elections in 1818 and 1820. Within the last fortnight, Lead better had avowed to the fact of his having received money for his votes. He himself was not employed by any person to collect the evidence. His doing so was entirely of his own voluntary impulse. Another person named Sharpe did the same. He knew a man of the name of Hodson, and was told by Parnham that Hodson had told him he had received money from Fox, and changed a 20l.l.l.William Newton
l.—I have received election-money after two elections, those of 1818 and 1820. About six weeks after Mr. Crompton and Mr. Evans were returned in the first election, two letters, without signature, were brought to my house. Each letter contained 20l.By Mr. Tennyson.
—Had been a freeman of East Retford for twenty years. Had been junior bailiff. The bailiffs were the returning officers. Was a smith and farrier by trade. Witness admitted after some hesitation that he had received money. Had received money, at three different times. The last occasion was after the last election. Two letters had been put into his house late at night, and at different times; they contained twenty guineas each. At the former election there had been one letter sent to his house containing twenty guineas. Witness believed it came from Mr. Crompton. Afterwards there came another. In 1812, the witness received no money. He had promised to vote for Mr. Osbaldiston: but when he applied for the election money, witness was told there was none for him; he was told that he was not a staunch blue. Never said that he and his family had received six score guineas. Whilst bailiff, witness belonged to the corporation. This was in 1820. Had received money after he had been bailiff.—Did you not say, that the man who delivered the letter had concealed his face; but that you had found him out?—No.By Mr. Tennyson.
Tennyson.974l.l.l.l.l.l.l.—Had received money after the election more than once.—How much? I cannot tell.—Was it 10Tennyson.974l.l.l.l.l.l.l.By Mr. Tennyson.
 observed, that other witnesses had been obliged to answer similar questions, and he did not conceive why the last witness should be permitted to refuse.Mr. Tennyson
l.l.l.,l.,967—Was a burgess of Retford. Had received money at elections. Could say that no candidate never gave him a half-penny, nor he never promised
l.l.l.,l.,967By Mr. Tennyson.
, and others.—Had been a burgess of East Retford for thirty years. Had witnessed many elections. At some of the elections did not receive a farthing. Could not say any thing about any one else. Received no money at the election when Mr. Osbaldiston and Mr. Marsh were candidates, because they would not give him any. He was promised money by an attorney (Mr. Hannam); but he forgot to give him the money. Mr. Hannam told him to call upon him and he would give him ten guineas; but he did not perform his promise. Hard as this was upon him, he was obliged to bear it. At the election in 1818, he received twenty pounds or guineas. He would speak the truth; but he could not tell who gave it him. It was sent to me as a present, in a letter. He had some conversation with Mr. Foljambe. Mr. Foljambe came in and sat down by him, and said, "all should be right." Did not know what Mr. Foljambe meant by it. Had often heard the expression used at Retford, but never knew what it meant. Had said upon the committee, "If they win, they expect the same as a labouring man that goes to his day's work, and that the practice had been continued for twenty years." Might have said before the committee that the voters seldom got any thing but black-looks, if they were on the losing side; and that the meaning of a burgess at Retford "having lost his election," was, that he had got nought for voting.By Mr. Tennyson
969 said, if the House permitted the witness to depart without answering the question, they would act most unconstitutionally. What would be the effect of such a course, but to give perfect impunity to every man who might be called before them, who wished to suppress the truth? He was surprised the Attorney-general should have shown himself so ignorant of the law of parliament. But his ignorance was the least to be considered. He had shown a contempt for that law in the opinion he had given. Was it to be supposed that in asking any questions from a witness, they would not extend to
969Mr. Littleton
 wished to make a few observations with respect to the resolution of 1818. Unquestionably the rule in a court of justice was, that no man was bound to answer a question the answer to which might criminate himself. It had been said distinctly, with reference to the present case, that if the witness were to criminate himself by his answers, the House would protect him from all consequences injurious to himself. The right hon. gentleman had read the resolution of the House, which declared that no clerk, short-hand writer, or other officer of the House, should give evidence elsewhere of what had occurred in that House, without leave first obtained. That leave, he took it, would not be granted. But he begged to ask, if a witness was criminally prosecuted, what could prevent his conviction on the evidence of any two or three hon. members who had heard his confession in that House, and whose attendance in the court of justice it would not be in the power of the House to prevent? He had made this statement, not as presuming to lay down the law of parliament, but in order that, if wrong, he might be corrected.Mr. Horace Twiss
955l.954 said, he looked at the question of emigration purely as one
955l.954Mr. James Grattan
957 said, it was clear from the report on emigration, that whatever vacuum we might make would be filled up as rapidly as it was made. Under these circumstances, he thought no sum of money would effect the proposed object. He would not, however, object to the remedy proposed without stating another. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the land in this country and in Ireland was exhausted. That could not be true; for the bogs of Ireland had never been touched with the plough. The real embargo on cultivation was to be found in the amount of taxes and tithes; in the uncertainty in the price of corn, and in the value of money. If these evils were removed, neither England nor Ireland would be found to have a surplus population. Men, when unemployed, had lately been spoken of as a sort of mischievous animal of which the country must be rid at any rate, and as if no means would be too great to effect such a riddance. Every other domestic animal had its price; but man seemed to be considered so far inferior to them, that instead of claiming a price we offered one to get him away. Our colonists, wiser than ourselves, were willing to do what they could to obtain what we thus foolishly rejected. Was it not possible, therefore, for us to make a profit of the concern? Could we not sell the unfortunate wild Irish who were now proposed to be re-
957Mr. Benett
960s.s.959, as a member of the Emigration-committee, felt it to be his duty to bear testimony to the assiduity and zeal displayed by the right hon. gentleman. Certain calculations connected with the right hon. gentleman's plan might
960s.s.959Mr. John Smith
l. avowed himself an enemy to emigration, which appeared to him to be a system of gross impolicy, and might, indeed, be termed a system of statistical suicide. If he were asked what was to be done with a superabundant population, he would answer, employ them in improving and cultivating the waste lands, which would give employment to thousands. Such cultivation was certainly impeded by barriers of no ordinary difficulty; namely, the poor-laws, tithes, and taxes; but remove them, and the advantages would be of easy attainment. He had himself paid no less than 6,000l.Mr. Leycester
971 rose for the purpose of stating the difference between evidence given before that House, and evidence given in
971Mr. Wynn
 observed, that the law of parliament, as he understood it, was, that every witness was protected from the consequences which might otherwise follow from his speaking the truth before the House, but that he was committed only for prevarication, or for refusing to answer. He therefore considered that the witness was bound to answer any question put to him, to the best of his knowledge; but as some witnesses might not be aware of the protection which the House gave to those who were called before it, he would move, that the chairman be instructed to state to the witness, that in any evidence he gave before that House, he should be protected as far as he spoke the truth.Sir C. Burrell
973—I was agent to sir H. W. Wilson. I got a promise of sixty-seven votes for him. I did not promise money. The freemen did not expect it, and the reason why I say they did not expect it is this—I met sir H. Wilson one day near the town, and I told him the lower freemen expected money. He said, "My
973By Mr. F. Clinton.
961 said, there could be no doubt but it would be a great advantage to send the unemployed Irish to the colonies. At the same time he could not help thinking that insuperable difficulties
961Mr. W. Whitmore
972—I beg permission to say a few words. Some expressions have just fallen from the learned member for Wootton Bassett, which are so directly at variance with the first and most important privileges of this House, that I feel it my duty not to allow them to pass without notice. I understood him to say, that it might possibly, happen that a member of this House might be required to give evidence in a court of Law of what had passed within these walls. Now, I conceive, that hardly any doubt can exist in the mind of
972The Speaker.
 said, that the House might be disposed to take any statement as to the practice of the law from the learned gentleman, but they would not take his authority as to what was the practice of parliament. That practice was to oblige witnesses to answer every question put to them. Without that power, their privileges, in prosecuting any inquiry of this kind, were worth nothing. If the witnesses were allowed to go from their bar without being compelled to answer the questions put to them, they ought to go in a body, with their chairman at their head, and apologise to the individual whom they had committed.Sir R. Wilson
 thought that this country, having taken upon itself the duties of the police of the world, in suppressing the Slave-trade, had entailed upon it an immense expenditure of life and money.Mr. Baring
 thought, that the country stood so strongly pledged to the abolition of slavery, that no minister would dare to recede from those pledges.Dr. Lushington
 said, that as government had given a pledge to the country, that certain measures would be taken if the colonial legislatures did not do what was requisite to carry into effect its views, with respect to the abolition of the slave-trade, he wished to ask what had been done to procure from the colonial legislatures an acquiescence in the views of government with respect to the slave population; or, whether the proceedings of the colonial legislatures appeared to government to be so satisfactory as to preclude the necessity of any further measures in this country?Mr. Brougham
979978 said, that the only answer he could give to the learned gentleman was, to refer him, in the first place, to the ample information which had been laid upon the table of the House. The resolution agreed to in 1823, with the returns consequent upon that measure, were both before parliament, and would soon be followed by further returns, developing what had been done, and what was in course of progress, relative to the improvement of the condition of the slaves. If that were considered the proper opportunity he would have no opportunity to enter into a statement of what had been effected by such of the colonies as possessed legislatures towards accomplishing the great work. There could not be the slightest doubt that the resolution of 1823, contemplated for the slave population the ultimate possession of civil rights, but it also contemplated that this transition should be effected without any interference with the rights of private property. It was perfectly true that no change had taken place in the system on which govern-
979978Mr. Secretary Huskisson
981980 said, that there were not two opinions relative to the abolition of the slave-trade. The House was bound by every principle of duty, as well as of national honour, to persist firmly in its course, until, as far as possible, that abominable traffic was abolished. AH he wished to know was, whether the government were satisfied with the acts of the local legislatures. If government were dissatisfied, then no further proceedings on his part would be necessary; but if they were satisfied with what had been done, he should bring forward the subject after the recess. The ultimate abolition of slavery had been the object of Mr. Pitt, and of Mr. Dundas. It was quite clear, that sooner or later the slaves in our colonies must become free. But the House must perceive, that the progress of the colonies was so slow as to be imperceptible to all human eyes, save their own; it did appear to him, that they themselves must perceive that they were standing still instead of advancing towards the goal at which it was the wish of that House they should gradually, but certainly arrive. If that was his view of the question, it became his duty, as a member of the legislature, to see that the intentions of that House were carried into effect, not precipitately, but without any unnecessary delay. Whether little had been done or much had been done by our colonists, it was not his intention at that moment to inquire; but it did appear to him, with respect to the colonies generally, that out of twenty heads of regulation and improvement recommended to them, there were no less than nine in which not a single, colony had taken, or even affected to take, a single step. He would take two of our principal colonies —Jamaica and Barbadoes; one having a population of 360,000, and the other a population of 80,000 or 90,000 persons, making in all a population of between
981980Mr. Brougham
976 presented a petition from the Auxiliary Anti-Slavery Society of the county of Surrey. Above four years had elapsed since the House had agreed, upon the motion of Mr. Canning, to certain resolutions expressive of their sense of the expediency of such an amelioration of the condition of the Slaves in the West Indies as might gradually lead to their emancipation. He believed, however, that no step had been taken by the Colonial Assemblies in furtherance of that most desirable object. He would take the
976Mr. Denison
 said, that he was not immediately able to answer the hon. gentleman's inquiry.Lord F. Gower
 said, he was as anxio s as the hon. member for Surrey to know what course ministers intended to pursue; whether the colonies were still to consider themselves as component parts of the British empire, or whether they were to be entirely isolated and distinct from that empire. It was high time to determine, whether the link which still bound the colonies to the mother country was to be dissolved or not. When the hon. gentleman talked of adopting a measure, for the purpose of bringing the question to a speedy issue, he seemed to forget that, by imposing a duty on the sugar exported from our colonies, a bounty would be given on the increase of the slave-trade, by the encouragement which would thereby be given to the importation of sugar from Martinique, the Havannah, the Brazils, &c. where, the slave trade was still carried on to a horrible extent; more especially under the French flag. At that very moment an immense number of slaves were constantly transferring from the coast of Africa to the colonies he had mentioned.Mr. Bernal
985984l.l.l.983l.l.982 said, that in moving for a Return of the number of Bills filed in the Courts of Equity, under the authority of the Commissioners appointed to inquire concerning Charities in England and Wales, he felt it necessary to say a few words in explanation of the object which he had in view. He was anxious, in the first place, to avoid the supposition that he was actuated by any unfriendly feeling to the principle in which the inquiry into the abuses existing in charitable institutions had originated. He therefore stated, most distinctly, that instead of being actuated by unfriendly, he was actuated by the most friendly, feeling towards them. He thought, however, that the time had arrived, in which some information respecting the result of their labours should be afforded to the House by the commissioners of inquiry, beyond that contained in the bulky volumes now upon the table. He believed that of all the commissions which had ever been issued at die desire of parliament, no one had ever been attended with such costly results,
985984l.l.l.983l.l.982Mr. D. W. Harvey
 expressed a wish that the duties on East and West India sugars should be equalized,Mr. Hume
 said, that if the object of the petitioners was the annihilation of the slave trade, they could not do a greater favour to the West Indies than by petitioning for its utter annihilation. Great evil resulted to our West-India islands from the continuance of the trade in other quarters. As to the amelioration of the state of the slaves, a unanimous feeling pervaded the whole of the West-India proprietors to contribute to that object as far as it was in their power to do so; but to pursue that object by the means resorted to by many persons in this country, would only produce irritation in the minds of the colonists.Sir A. Grant
 said, that if the mischief likely to arise from the conduct of the petitioners was the abolition of female whipping and the compulsory manumission of slaves, he was one of those who would do all in his power to promote such mischief.Sir R. Wilson
989988 said, he was commissioned by the general body of the Catholics of Ireland to present to the House a Petition, praying for the removal of the disabilities under which they laboured. The petition he had to present to the House involved such important interests, and embraced concerns of such magnitude to the welfare of individuals as well as of the country at large, that he was induced to break through a general rule he had laid down to himself, of not occupying the attention of the House upon the presentation of petitions. He felt convinced that the condition of the petitioners excited the sympathy not only of a majority in parliament, but of a vast portion of their fellow-subjects in Ireland and in England; and that it would be a great relief to the House and to the country, if parliament would take into consideration the claims of the Roman Catholics, as well as of persons labouring under disqualifications on account of their religious opinions. Upon the hardships under which the Catholics laboured some persons were disposed not to lay so much stress as he did; they thought it no very great grievance to labour under these disabilities; but, in his opinion, nothing could be more galling to the mind of an honourable man, than in his own country to be considered as a proscribed person—to have a mark set upon him for his conscientious religious belief—to be held up as a person unworthy of trust, and incapacitated from receiving all marks of honour and emolument—as a person whose career was arrested in every course of ambition, however beneficial to the individual or to the state—to have the finger of scorn pointed at him, and to be compelled to witness other persons having every possible advantage over him on account of their religious belief: this was
989988Sir F. Burdett
 thought it was right that those who were interested in the elections of counties should have time to examine into the provisions of the bill. For his own part, he was not so sanguine as the noble lord seemed to be with respect to the probable operation of the measure.Lord Lowther
1009100810071006100510041003 said, that whatever credit the hon. gentleman might claim to himself for discretion, he thought that he would not obtain it, if he claimed it for a
1009100810071006100510041003Mr. Secretary Peel
 —"Bishop Burnett was, you know, only writing the history of William and Mary."Mr. Peel.
 —"No; what General Ginckle said, was, that these propositions were contrary to the laws of England."Mr. Peel.
10211020, in moving for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the Scotch Law of Entail, expressed his determination, in the amendments he had to propose, to consult, as far as he possibly could, the feelings and the prejudices of the Scotch Aristocracy. The statute he wished to amend, was of very ancient date. It was passed in the year 1685. By its provisions, the owner of the fee simple of an estate in Scotland was enabled to limit the succession by a series of entails through ages. Possessing the fee simple, he had the power to name his unborn heirs, and to settle the succession to his property through a series of ages, without the possibility of any future possession altering the nature or terms of the entail. The consequences of this extended nature of entail were most injurious to all the transactions of society: for when all other properties were found liable to debts contracted by their proprietors, the owners of entailed estates found their possessions exempt from any obligations. A record was kept of the entails settled according to this statute, and he had procured a return of the numbers of properties which had been progressively entailed, through periods of twenty years, in order to shew how rapidly they were increasing, and how injurious that increase must prove to the prosperity of the kingdom. In the first forty years there were 313 estates entailed: in the next period of twenty years there were sixty-nine; in the next 138; in the next 272; then 360; then 459; and in the last period there were 54: making in the whole, 1,645 estates entailed under the statute, besides a vast number of other properties left in the hands of trustees for the same purpose. It was a fact worthy of notice, that large quantities of English capital were gradually finding their way to Scotland, in order to its being placed under the security of the same restrictions, tending to increase the evil, and
10211020Mr. Kennedy
1022 said, he did not object to the manner in which the hon. member proposed to bring the subject before the consideration of the House, as during its progress the country would have an opportunity of expressing its opinion on this important measure. It was the more necessary to give the country this opportunity, as it was the obvious tendency of the bill to do away with entails entirely
1022The Lord Advocate
, recommended the dividing the proposed measure into two distinct branches, the prospective and retrospective. Upon the propriety of touching existing relations, great difference of opinion prevailed. He did not understand for what reason the peerage was excepted from the operation of the prospective clauses.The Attorney General
1023, in reply, said, he never meant to unsettle the relations of property in Scotland: his object was to remedy an-
1023Mr. Kennedy
1032103110301029l.l.10281027lex non scriptainvito domino102610251024 said, that before he proceeded to enter on the motion which stood for that evening, he felt it necessary to make an observation with respect to some circumstances that had recently occurred. Yesterday a conversation arose on a petition being presented relative to the situation of negroes in the colonies, and the learned member for Winchelsea then made several observations which he had declared his intention of answering when he brought forward the motion of which he had given notice. The learned gentleman had then requested him to put off the discussion until seven o'clock this evening; and afterwards the learned gentleman wished him to postpone it altogether. He was obliged to notice this, because many gentlemen were anxious that the discussion should come on immediately. He, however, would be guided by the feeling of the House [cries of "go on."] The motion, then, which he meant to propose to the House was, "that the minutes of evidence taken before his majesty's privy council, in the matter of the Demerara and Berbice manumission order in council, be laid before this House." And he felt it to be his duty to call the attention of the House to those circumstances which induced him to consider such a course as highly expedient. He begged it to be distinctly understood, that the step he was taking was not in the slightest degree influenced by any communications with the members of his majesty's government. He, as a privy councillor, attended the original investigation, and, in the performance of his duty as a member of parliament, he now brought the question forward. Gentlemen were aware, that in May 1823, certain resolutions were passed in that House, which pledged the House to pursue a certain course of policy with respect to slaves. The resolution which was then proposed by the hon. member for Weymouth (Mr. F. Buxton) set forth, "that the state of slavery is repugnant to the principles of the British constitution, and of the Christian religion; and that it ought to be gradually abolished throughout the British colonies, with as much expedition as may be found consistent with a due regard to the well-
1032103110301029l.l.10281027lex non scriptainvito domino102610251024Mr. Wilmot Horton
103710361035 said, he would not follow the line of argument pursued by some of his hon. friends as to the abstract right of property in the negro, or how far slavery was inconsistent with the laws of God; but he could not avoid remarking, that that mode of argument must naturally tend to excite distrust in the minds of the West-India proprietors towards those who had voted for the resolutions on a former occasion". When he heard such arguments as those of the noble lord, and of his hon. friend, the member for Norwich, as to compensation, he begged to ask them if they could get rid of the resolutions of parliament in 1823, which were founded on the rights of property? His hon. friend who spoke last had said, that no man had any right of property in another man. Now if he were a West-India proprietor, which he, was not, he should think, from the tenour of the resolutions of parliament
103710361035Mr. Baring
104010391038 said, that amongst all the difficulties with which government had had to contend, in carrying into effect the measures with reference to the West-India colonies, none were more serious than those founded upon the doctrine of the abstract rights of man, advanced by the noble lord, and by his hon. friend the member for Norwich. This difficulty, great as it was, was very much aggravated by the opposite extremes indulged in by his hon. friend the member for Callington, who endeavoured to impress upon the House and the country, that slavery was in itself unavoidable, and that the condition of the slaves was preferable to that of the average of free labourers in this country. He was not surprised to hear such an unsound and extravagant principle advanced on one side, when he heard it advanced by a noble lord on the other side, that there could be no such thing as a legal right of property—no such thing as an ownership in slaves. He did not know what this last assertion meant, for it appeared to him that the ownership in slaves was similar to other rights established by law. He acknowledged that it was an ownership entirely distinct from any other species of description of property; but let it not
104010391038Mr. Secretary Huskisson
1046 said, that in the part which he was about to take in the discussion, he should avoid anything like an irritated or angry feeling. He appealed to his hon. friend, the member for Weymouth, whether he had not upon all occasions discussed this question calmly and dispassionately; Indeed, he always felt sorry when he found anything like angry discussion introduced into so important a subject. But he was not sorry at finding that the opinions expressed by the hon. member for Weymouth had been elicited that evening. He had taken a fair and manly course, and had given to the House the tone and opinions of himself and his coadjutors in the work (the great work no doubt he and they thought it) in which they were engaged. His hon. friend had at length plainly told them, that he would look to the compensation of the negro before that of the white master [hear, hear !]. An hon. member cheered, but he would tell him, that that was not the wisest course to take, in order to attain the object which his hon. friend had in view. The West-Indians might be a weak body; but if driven and forced together, it might be found that they could muster both strength, and courage to resist those opposed to them, and who attempted to destroy their just rights. The hon. member went on to deny the decrease in the negro population. He was taken by surprise by the assertion, and
1046Mr. Bernal
10191018 said, he could not avoid saying a few words in reply to the right hon. Secretary. That right hon. gentleman had observed, that the parliament of James the 2nd was composed exclusively of Catholics, to the number of two hundred and forty members. That parliament afterwards attainted all the Protestants in Ireland, and confiscated their estates. Nothing, however, could be more absurd than to argue that a parliament, elected afterwards in Ireland, was likely to be composed wholly of Catholics. On the contrary the boroughs and counties of Ireland, which were settled as protestant, and in which the protestants had a preponderance, were so numerous that the parliament must have afterwards had a clear majority, both in the House of Lords and Commons. It appeared, indeed, by a work of a colonel Lawrence, that in the year 1680, there were seventy-nine Protestant peers in Ireland, and only thirty-two Catholic. When, therefore, the contending parties negociated at Limerick, there could not have been any fear of the consequences from the granting political privileges to the Roman Catholics. No danger could possibly have been apprehended from the predominant influence of the Catholics in the-parliament of Ireland. That question, indeed, never came before Ginckle, because BO such idea ever entered the heads of those who were called upon to negociate. It was true that the conditions first proposed to Ginckle were returned, because they were inadmissible; but other conditions
10191018Mr. A. Dawson
1047 justified the course pursued by the hon. members for Norwich and Weymouth. He thought the principle of negro slavery so inequitable, it was so unfair, that any body of men should govern their fellow creatures by a system of laws which enacted the penalty of twenty stripes for one offence, of thirty for another, and so on, punishing human infirmities by a self-assumed right as a superior order of beings: he considered this system so abhorrent to humanity, and so essentially repugnant to justice, that he would not detain the House by commenting on it. He maintained, that the slave population was decreasing at the rate of 2½ per cent. per annum. As to the Sunday-market, he thought the sacredness of that day ought not to be disregarded, and that another
1047Mr. Sykes
 presented a petition from the magistrates for the county of Warwick, assembled at the quarter-sessions, stating the great increase of crime in that county, and praying that the House would take the subject into their most serious consideration, and apply such a remedy as its importance demanded. The hon. gentleman observed, that great anxiety existed throughout the county with reference to this subject. The greatest increase was of juvenile offenders. About ten years ago, the magistrates established an asylum in the county of Warwick, for receiving juvenile offenders after conviction, which had been attended at the time with the most beneficial effects. Of late years, however, crime had increased in the county with alarming rapidity. At the late quarter-sessions, of one hundred and fifty-two prisoners convicted, seventy-five, or eighty, were boys under fifteen years of age. It was impossible, of course, to receive so many into an asylum which was maintained by private contributions. A pamphlet had lately been published by a magistrate of the county, sir E. Wilmot, in which, for the purpose of preventing the evils which resulted from the commitment of mere boys to gaol, he recommended that, in certain cases, the magistrates should have the power of summary conviction. Such was also the opinion of many other respectable magistrates. Certain it was, that notwithstanding every effort that had been made, and after every allowance for an increasing population, crime had of late increased in an alarming degree. He trusted that this petition would be referred to the committee now sitting to consider the causes of the increase of crime. Mr. Dugdale
 said, he knew nothing more afflicting than to see so many poor children brought to the bar at every assizes. In the county which he represented the increase of crime, and especially among youth, was most alarming. In 1825, there were eighteen children under fifteen years of age convicted in Staffordshire; in 1826, there were thirty-two; in 1827, forty. In 1825, there were eighty-seven young men, between fifteen and twenty years of age, convicted in the same county; in 1826, there were a hundred and thirty-seven; and in 1827, a hundred and sixty-four. This was really a most horrible evil. He believed that many of the magistrates were inclined to think that it would be advisable to give the power of summary conviction in certain cases. The bias of his mind was strongly in favour of such a measure.Mr. Littleton
987 thought that separate jurisdictions were injurious; and that there should be no commitments except by two or three magistrates acting together. As to the great increase in the number of juvenile offenders, he did not believe that it originated so much from
987Mr. Portman
 thought, that any change which would affect the statute of 1685, by which the real property of Scotland was settled and established, would be productive of much inconvenience and litigation. He would not say that the law of entail in Scotland was not susceptible of improvement; nor would he advocate the expediency of strict entail: on the contrary, in this commercial country, he thought that property should be comparatively open; whilst a due regard should be held for the principle of non-alienation, for the preservation of property in families, and the other salutary purposes for which it was instituted. Much litigation and confusion ensued from many parts of the law affecting real property and its entailment in Scotland; but that confusion would, in his opinion, be only increased by any precipitate interference with the principal on which entail property, consisting as it did of nearly half the whole property of Scotland, was settled.Mr. Sugden
986 looked upon the evil as one of great magnitude, and mainly attributable to the existing state of the law. Boys were brought before the magistrate, charged with various offences; and under the circumstances, the magistrate had no alternative, but was constrained to commit them to gaol. In gaol, therefore, they
986Mr. Lawley
1017res integra said, he did not mean, in discussing this question, to inquire whether the Treaty had been punctually fulfilled, but he would view it as 1017res integraMr. G. Moore
1033 did not rise to oppose the motion, but for the purpose of making a protest against some of the doctrines laid down by the right hon. gentleman. The right hon. gentleman had deprecated going into any controversial matter; but he had stated some opinions, against which he found himself obliged to protest. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman in what he had said of the two resolutions of that House, with the exception of one word. There was a higher power than parliament,
1033Lord Nugent
l.l.l.l.l.l.100210011000pari passu999 said, he rose to second the motion, and he did so in the persuasion that the case of the Catholics of Ireland would be made out by the document, Indeed, he had not a doubt upon his mind but that if twelve honest men were placed at the bar to decide on the meaning of the articles, they could not hesitate to adopt the interpretation for which the Catholics and their friends contended. The question, as it appeared to him, resolved itself into a mere matter of fact: it was merely whether such a Treaty had ever been completed; for on the meaning of the terms there could be no dispute. He thought at the same time that his hon. friend would fall short of his object if he persisted in confining his motion to the civil articles; for there were two copies of the Treaty originally published—one in Ireland, and the other in England; and it was curious to observe that the one printed in London omitted to state that the king had sanctioned them. This had, to him, the appearance of an intention, from the beginning, to break through the articles. Such conduct was not without example in the transactions of this government. The Crown had disowned what its servants had done for Ireland, both in the reigns of
l.l.l.l.l.l.100210011000pari passu999Mr. H. Grattan
1048 complained of the aspersions and insinuations thrown out against the West-India proprietors, whenever an opportunity for doing so occurred. He would say to his compassionate brethren over the way, who were for galloping away thousands of miles from their own country and seeking to bestow their benevolence every where but in those places where it was most wanted, "look at home; go to Ireland and Scotland; there you will find misery and wretchedness enough; there you can be at no loss to discover plenty of starvation. In these places you may find persons, perhaps, related to yourselves, in a state of the utmost destitution, actually starving. When you have done what you ought to do in this respect, when you have relieved the poor of your own country, go abroad as fast as you like; relieve Ireland first, and then I will go hand-in-hand with you in assisting the West Indies, which, however, stands in need of assistance much less than the places already mentioned." He was the owner of a small parish in the north of England, and he had an estate in the West Indies, containing nearly the same number of subjects; and he could say most conscientiously, that the condition of the black-coloured people was infinitely superior to that of the tenantry of his parish in England. If one of his tenants in that parish wanted a glass of wine, he must go without it. Now that was a state of things which he never recollected in the West Indies. The hon. gentleman had thrown out a great deal of abuse upon the West-India planters, but he could say that they had feelings of kindness equal to any of the modern philanthropists. He desired those hon. gentlemen to recollect, that the planters held their estates and their present rights under the authority of acts of that House. Their situation was no act of their own; they went out from this country and purchased or laboured for their property, and left it to the children under the sanction of that House. Widows and orphans were the holders of much of that property, and he called upon the House to pause before it interfered with their rights. He called for protection to them and to himself with as much confidence as he called upon them for protection to his parish in Yorkshire. He spoke as a plain country gentleman, who had seen many ups and downs in life;
1048Mr. James Wilson
10451044104310421041 said:—I had originally resolved to follow the advice given by the noble lord (Nugent) considering the importance of the subject, the interests that are involved in it, and the absence, upon our part, of the information which the right hon. gentleman possesses. I had resolved to abstain from troubling the House with a single observation. The hon. member for Callington renders it impossible for me to adhere to that resolution. It is incumbent upon someone of those who have advocated the cause of the slaves, to stand up in his place and notice and repel his accusations. Up to the moment when he rose, the debate had been conducted with all possible tranquillity of temper. But the hon. gentleman favours us with a lecture upon temperance, moderation, command of temper, and control of tongue, in a speech just the most immoderate, intemperate, violent, and exasperating, that ever I heard in my life. In order to accomplish his purpose of calming irascible feelings, and banishing from this debate all topics which might create animosity, he is pleased to charge us with exaggeration, misrepresentation, quackery, and nonsense.10451044104310421041Mr. Fowell Buxton
 entirely concurred in the extent of the evil, and the necessity for some remedy.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he claimed equal credit for sincerity with the right hon. gentleman, when he declared his firm belief in favour of a different construction from that which the right hon. gentleman had put upon the articles of this great national stipulation—a treaty, not contracted, as lawyers would say, without a consideration, but which at once transferred to king William the full possession of the kingdom of Ireland. How happened it, that when the right hon. gentleman depended so much upon bishop Burnett's authority in behalf of his opinion that no violation of the treaty had taken place, he had overlooked the strong fact, that at the very time the bishop was writing, in 1705, some of those penal laws, which were infractions, had actually been enacted?Mr. Spring Rice
1016101510141013 resumed and said, so it was, to have an Irish priest established in every parish: if he did not mistake, the right hon. gentleman had, on a former occasion said the same; and sure he was that the earl of Liverpool had made such a declaration, when the motion was made for assigning a stipend to the Catholic clergy. That noble earl had then said, that such a demand went to the overthrow of the Protestant religion, and to a breach of the coronation oath. Turning to the conduct of general Ginckle, it would be seen, that on the 1st of August, 1691, the government had addressed a letter to him, urging him, in the strongest terms to put an end to the war in Ireland. The letter from Coningsby to Ginckle, of the 1st of August, 1691, represented how absolutely necessary it was for the affairs of Christendom, that the war in Ireland should be ended this summer. He represented how averse people were generally from giving the Irish any conditions, but that such persons did not consider the misery of the country, and less understood the circumstances of affairs abroad. At that time there were two contending parties in the field-councils of the different armies. There were in the Irish camp a French party, urging them on to extreme demands; while with Ginckle there was an English party, insisting that the Irish should receive no terms short of confiscation. Between these two inflamed parties the Irish government were desirous of moderately mediating. "But," said the right hon. gentleman, "see the length of time which elapsed before any complaint of this kind was made respecting the alleged in-
1016101510141013Mr. Spring Rice
10121011 said, that was true, but in point of date, the bishop was engaged in writing the work after 1704, when some of those penal acts had actually passed. That horrid act against the education of Catholic children —the most wicked that ever disgraced a statute book —had previously passed under the cognizance of bishop Burnett. Both the law and the fact were upon this point against the historian. But the bishop was good authority in another part of his work, where he spoke of the occurrence of direct facts under his own eye, and stated, in plain terms, that so intent was the government to obtain an end to the war in Ireland, that the commissioners were instructed to keep their terms in good faith (alluding to this very treaty), "to the no small grief," says Burnett, "of some English who wished to ruin the Irish for their own purposes." The passage in Burnett was as follows:—"When they came to capitulate, the Irish insisted on very high demands, which were set on by the French, who hoped they would be rejected; but the king had given Ginckle secret directions that he should grant all the demands they could make that would put an end to the war. So every thing was granted, to the great disappointment of the French, and to the no small grief of some of the English, who hoped this war would have ended in the total ruin of the Irish interest. Those of Limerick treated not for themselves alone, but for all the rest of their countrymen who were yet in arms. They were
10121011Mr. Spring Rice
 seconded the motion; but the hon. member was not audible in the gallery. We understood him to support the arguments of his right hon. friend, and to contend, while he approved of the resolutions of that House, that they ought to be enforced with equity and mildness. Great caution was necessary in their proceedings, particularly in the absence of the requisite information. This point had been much insisted on by the Colonial Legislature of Jamaica, and was the object of one of their resolutions in 1826. As to the Slave Trade, he was afraid the introduction of slaves into the foreign islands had not diminished, and that the restrictions we had imposed on that trade subjected the slaves, during the passage, to increased privations and hardships. He referred to several authorities to shew that parliament was greatly uninformed as to the true situation of the slaves in the West Indies.Mr. Keith Douglas
nullum tempus occurrit regi; said, he must protest, as he ever had done and should do, against the doctrine, that the ownership of slaves could be assimilated to the laws applicable to any other species of property. Man never could become the legal property of man. There was a maxim "nullum tempus occurrit regi;Mr. W. Smith
1034 differed in one point from his right hon. friend. His right hon., friend had argued that, because there was no market-price for slaves, the appraisers could have no principle by which to determine their value. Now, he would contend, that there was a market price for slaves, they were still, and they would be, transferred—this would give a market-price, and by this the appraiser might regulate his conduct. There would be some evil, however, in settling the price this way, for as the demand for them outgrew the supply, the price would rise. But still he would contend that there must, even on this principle, be a market-price for slaves. Those who owned land that yielded a profit of six or twelve per cent, would transfer their slaves to those who owned land that yielded eighteen per cent; and as long as a difference of this kind existed between estates, there must, and would be transfers of slaves, and a market-price. Certainly, they could not enforce compulsory manumission at a fixed price, but he was persuaded that our colonies would never be in a flourishing condition until all the slaves were converted into free labourers. This was what he looked to to give security to the planters themselves. In his opinion, the time was not far distant when the whole cultivation of the West Indies would be carried on by free labourers, and this was a state of things that would be, he was persuaded, infinitely more advantageous to the planters and the negroes than their present state. It must not be said that a vertical sun and a tropical climate would prevent this; for the House must know, that sugar was cultivated in Mexico by free labourers. Let the House look also to the East Indies: there sugar was culti-
1034Mr. W. Whitmore
998997996"It will now be seen, that even if these (the Popery) laws could be supposed agreeable to those of nature in these particulars, in another, and almost as strong a principle, they are yet unjust, as being contrary to positive compact, and the public faith most solemnly plighted. On the surrender of Limerick, and some other Irish garrisons in the war of the Revolution, the lords justices of Ireland, and the commander-in-chief of the king's forces, signed a capitulation with the Irish, which was afterwards ratified by the king himself by inspextinces under the Great Seal of England. It contains some public articles relative to the whole body of the Roman Catholics in that kingdom, and some with regard to the security to the greater part of the inhabitants of five counties. What the latter were, or in what manner they were observed, is at this day of much less public concern. The former are two—the first and the ninth. The first is of this tenour:—'The Roman Catholics of this kingdom (Ireland) shall enjoy such privileges in the exercise of their Religion, as are consistent with the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy in the reign of king Charles 2nd, and their Majesties, as soon as their affairs will permit them to summon a parliament in this kingdom, will endeavour, to procure the said Roman Catholics such further security in that particular, as may preserve them from any disturbance upon the account of their said religion.' The ninth article is to this effect:—'The oath to be administered to such Roman Catholics as submit themselves to their Majesties' Government shall be the oath aforesaid, and no other, viz.—
996995994"The oath to be administered to such Roman Catholics as submit themselves to their majesties' government shall be the oath aforesaid, and no other.""That the Roman Catholics of this country shall enjoy such privileges in the exercise of their religion, as are consistent with the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy in the reign of king Charles 2nd, and their majesties, as soon as their affairs will permit them to summon a parliament in this kingdom, will endeavour to procure the said Roman Catholics such farther security, in that particular, as may preserve them from any disturbance on account of their said religion."993992991 rose, pursuant to notice, to move "that a Copy of the Treaty of Limerick be laid upon the table." Many petitions had, he said, been presented in the course of the present session from the Roman Catholics of Ireland, in which they prayed for a restoration of the civil privileges of which they had been deprived on account of their religious opinions. These petitions stated, that the laws and statutes by which the Roman Catholics were deprived of their civil rights had been, framed in direct violation of the compact entered into between the Irish nation and king William 3rd, the conditions of which compact were comprised in the Treaty of
998997996"It will now be seen, that even if these (the Popery) laws could be supposed agreeable to those of nature in these particulars, in another, and almost as strong a principle, they are yet unjust, as being contrary to positive compact, and the public faith most solemnly plighted. On the surrender of Limerick, and some other Irish garrisons in the war of the Revolution, the lords justices of Ireland, and the commander-in-chief of the king's forces, signed a capitulation with the Irish, which was afterwards ratified by the king himself by inspextinces under the Great Seal of England. It contains some public articles relative to the whole body of the Roman Catholics in that kingdom, and some with regard to the security to the greater part of the inhabitants of five counties. What the latter were, or in what manner they were observed, is at this day of much less public concern. The former are two—the first and the ninth. The first is of this tenour:—'The Roman Catholics of this kingdom (Ireland) shall enjoy such privileges in the exercise of their Religion, as are consistent with the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy in the reign of king Charles 2nd, and their Majesties, as soon as their affairs will permit them to summon a parliament in this kingdom, will endeavour, to procure the said Roman Catholics such further security in that particular, as may preserve them from any disturbance upon the account of their said religion.' The ninth article is to this effect:—'The oath to be administered to such Roman Catholics as submit themselves to their Majesties' Government shall be the oath aforesaid, and no other, viz.—
996995994"The oath to be administered to such Roman Catholics as submit themselves to their majesties' government shall be the oath aforesaid, and no other.""That the Roman Catholics of this country shall enjoy such privileges in the exercise of their religion, as are consistent with the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy in the reign of king Charles 2nd, and their majesties, as soon as their affairs will permit them to summon a parliament in this kingdom, will endeavour to procure the said Roman Catholics such farther security, in that particular, as may preserve them from any disturbance on account of their said religion."993992991Sir Henry Parnell
 was of opinion that the existence of this youthful immorality could not be justly attributed to a want of employment for the children of the poorer classes, as it prevailed in the agricultural counties, where work, was to be had in abundance. He thought it might with more propriety be referred to the too great prevalence of criminal prosecutions. By late returns it appeared that out of ninety thousand commitments, thirty thousand got a discharge without trial, as the bills were ignored by the grand jury. This he could not but believe to be the result of the recent act which permitted prosecutors their expenses, as it naturally tended to increase frivolous prosecutions. After the initiation into all kinds of turpitude, which a gaol was so calculated to effect, it was not a matter of surprise that depravity should extensively prevail throughout the country.Sir J. Wrottesley
l.l. said, he was induced to move for some particulars of the expense of printing certain papers by order of the House, on account of the great sums which had been laid out in that way, and the apparent uselessness of that expenditure. He wished to be understood as having no intention of curtailing the right of petitioning, or of having petitions printed. What he principally objected to was the appendices to the reports of the committees, which seemed to convey no information whatever. The appendix to the slavery report, for instance, contained nothing but the names of slaves and their masters and mistresses, accompanied with declarations as to the good or bad qualities of the latter. The expense of printing these papers for the last year was calculated at 80,000l.l.Sir M. W. Ridley
990 rose, pursuant to notice, to move "for leave to bring in a Bill for the Registration of Freeholders in England and Wales." He observed that a committee had been appointed last session to consider the mode of taking polls at elections, and a bill was printed by their directions for the use of the House. It would therefore be the less necessary for him to detain them at any length on the present occasion. He would, however, explain briefly the principle of the measure, and the reason upon which it was founded. The great object he had in view was to diminish the expense of elections, by having the poll taken at different parts of the county, instead of bringing the electors from various distances all to the place. The chief objection to the plan was, that it would be difficult to know who were voters and who were not, and that it would be necessary to
990Lord Althorp
1056 said, that seeing an hon. member connected with the Board of Control in his place, he wished to call his attention to the reported removal or suspension of a judge in India. The alleged offence of the learned person said to have been thus disposed of was, that in the course of delivering a legal opinion, he had mentioned something, as if he contemplated the probability of the time arriving when the East India Company's charter might not be renewed. Now, he thought there could be no doubt that any man was justified in stating, without meaning to question the supremacy of the East India Company, that by law their charter expired at a certain time. Indeed, if any man should take upon himself to state that the charter would be renewed as a matter of course, that would be illegal; it would be doing what the Crown and the Parliament could not do. Mr. Justice Blackstone had laid it down to be one of the few things which the Crown or Legislature could not do, to bind themselves down as to what they would do at a future time; yet here was a judge, because he had chosen in argument, to contemplate the possibility of that which he (Mr. Brougham) earnestly wished might prove the fact; namely, that the Company's charter would not be renewed, at least not without great curtailment of their monopoly, and a corresponding extension of the rights of the subject, instantly suspended from his judicial functions, If the statement, the
1056Mr. Brougham
1057 observed, that on a former evening an hon. member had put a question to him with the view of eliciting some information respecting the labours of the commission appointed to inquire into the abuses of charities, and at the same time the hon. member expressed an opinion, that the reports made by the commissioners were inoperative, and, as it were, a dead letter. At the time the question was proposed, he had stated his impression, that in every instance in which the commissioners thought it desirable that the attention of the Court of Chancery should be called to any charge of abuse, the Attorney-General had directions to attend immediately to their wishes. Upon inquiry he had found that such in fact was the arrangement. In order to prevent unnecessary correspondence, it had been arranged between the Secretary of State and the commissioners, that the latter should have the power of making direct application to the Attorney-General; who in his turn was authorized
1057Mr. Secretary Peel
1058 seconded the motion. There certainly was, he said, in many commissions, a great tendency to slumber in their proceedings; although appointed for temporary purposes, they enjoyed a good revenue, and did little work, just enough to serve as a pretence for continuing their appointment. That observation, however, did not apply to the commission in question. He concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman respecting the reports of the commission. What parliament wanted was a registration of the rights of the poor, a distinct declaration of the objects of the various charities in the kingdom, in order that every person who had a right under the endowments, might at once be able to claim it. The cheapest mode of registration was by means of the press. Many hundreds of copies of the commissioners' reports had been spread over the country; and in various places, portions of those reports had been reprinted, to make all mankind acquainted with the contents. He considered the reprinting of parts of the reports a very judicious proceeding, and was desirous that some plan should be devised for doing it more frequently. Of this he was satisfied, that the labours of the commission had caused the correction of many abuses which had arisen in charities; frequently, he would admit, from ignorance, but very often
1058Mr. Brougham
1059 said, he held in his hands a petition which he trusted would receive the serious attention it deserved from the House, as well from the importance of the body from which it came, as the matter it contained. It was a petition from the general body of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, and had attached to it the names of the leading advocates, as well Peers as Commoners, of that body. They prayed the House to erase from the Statute-book a law, which was alike discreditable to Catholics and Protestants, as it made it imperative upon the former to state, and the latter to sanction the statement, that the Roman Catholic religion was damnable and idolatrous; thus denouncing a great, portion of the empire. The petitioners further stated that such a declaration was unchristian and illiberal, pointing out as outcasts a great portion of the people of Ireland. They prayed the repeal of all tests, oaths, and obligations, which operated in producing the disabilities under which they at present laboured with respect to seats in the Councils of the empire. It was unnecessary for him to add, that he entirely concurred in the prayer of the petition. He hoped the very respectable body who had intrusted their petition to his care would not consider him guilty of the slightest want of zeal in
1059Mr. Brougham
1060l said, he held in his hand a petition from a person named John Yule, late the keeper of a respectable inn in Halifax. The petitioner complained of the conduct of certain magistrates. He gave the names of those magistrates, but be (Mr. B.) would forbear mentioning them; if, however, the case which the petitioner stated was true, then he thought it the hardest that had ever come within his knowledge, and at the same time strongly illustrative of the caprice with which licences were granted or withheld. The petitioner stated that, in May, last year, he took a lease of a respectable inn, in Halifax, at a yearly rent of 851060lMr. Brougham
 wished to know by whom that explanation had been called for? In this country a judge could not be called to give an explanation of what he had said, except to the Court of Appeal. It was perfectly well known that any person connected with Government in this country who shall presume to call upon a judge for an explanation of what he had said, might be impeached and removed from office, besides suffering other penalties.Mr. Brougham
 expressed his surprise at the use of those distant expressions, which were not very seemly between such old and intimate friends; but his hon. friend, if he would permit him to call him so, must be aware that it could not be pleasant for him to be kept on his legs longer than he intended. It was not for himself that he felt, but for the House, which he was detaining. He knew not how much longer his hon. friend's conversation might have lasted if he had not, by his expostulation, called down the vials of his wrath. Besides the hon. member for Derry was just beginning another conversation that might have lasted as long again.Mr. Brougham
 said, he was glad to find that he was himself singular in the opinion that it was necessary.Mr. Brougham
 thought the House was bound to protect its rights and privileges. Those privileges, like all their other rights, they were bound to exercise for the public good. He believed that, if this individual had not been committed, not a word of truth would have been got out of the other witnesses. It was idle to talk of their ignorance. Those low Yorkshiremen were possessed of as much cunning as any hon. member in that House-But, if they were to bring' this man up to be discharged, surely they would take care that it should not be without a reprimand.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 supported the motion for the discharge of Fox.Mr. Stewart
 also thought the motion ought to be agreed to.Sir C. Burrell
 said, that, if ever there had been a case for the interference of the House, it was that of the individual in question, whose conduct had been such as; to render it absolutely necessary to commit him. In his opinion, there would be no harm in allowing Fox to remain in Newgate until the termination of the inquiry relative to East Retford. However, if the I House thought differently, he was content that the individual should be called to the bar, and discharged, after receiving a proper reprimand.Mr. Baring
1062 thought the resolution of the House the other night was quite necessary, because the object of the witness seemed to have been the wilful concealment of the truth; and when the House had once shewn a determination to punish an individual who had so offended, they could not so trifle with their proceedings as to extend almost as a matter of course their lenity to him, merely because he came the next day and petitioned for their indulgence. He therefore wished this motion had been postponed; but as it had been made, and the petition was a proper one, he would give his consent to its prayer, amending it only by adding the condition, that the individual be brought up on Monday instead of that night, and that he should then receive a reprimand from the Speaker. He trusted that, if the worthy alderman had any prejudices against Yorkshiremen, he would not display them on the present occasion. The witnesses who were to be examined that night came from the town of East Retford,
1062Mr. Secretary Peel
 did not object to the motion as amended, but should like to put the same witness again under examination, to see what effect his punishment had had on him.Mr. N. Calvert
 thought the punishment too slight, considering the grave nature of the offence.Mr. W. Smith
 stated, as an apology for the witness, that he was in ill health when he was called to the bar.Mr. Crompton
 objected to the re-examination of Fox, lest it might be said that his evidence had been obtained by the application of a sort of torture.Mr. Tennyson
 was called in, and Mr. Tennyson proceeded to interrogate him. In your examination of the 4th of March, you stated that you knew in some of these elections, there were above forty electors at East Retford who would not take money. I will now put into your hands the lists of the burgesses for 1818, 1820, and 1826. Will you mark off, in any of those lists, the forty names you have alluded to.Mr. E. C. Brown
 suggested, that as the witness had in his former examination, merely given his opinion, they had better not dwell on an answer so given, but go into the evidence of the particular fact sought to be established.Mr. Wynn
 said, he wanted to shew how far the fact would, or would not, justify the witness's opinion of there being forty who would not take bribes. If the names were marked, then the opinion could at once be brought to the test.Mr. Tennyson
 said, that the witness was not called upon to give an opinion against the guilty, but in favour of the innocent.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that still they must have positive instead of secondary evidence; of what use, then, was the delivery of a mere opinion.Mr. Wynn
1063 said, that even with the supposition that forty refused to take bribes, it did not follow, from a mere
1063Sir J. Wrottesley
 said, that if it were competent for one witness to mark off forty names as innocent, it would be equally competent for another to mark off as many more who were in his opinion guilty—a course both irregular and inconvenient.Mr. Stewart
 argued, that as it stood on the minutes that forty voters would not receive bribes, it was fit to ascertain who those forty were, and whether they deserved the character for purity which had been given them.Mr. Fergusson
 reminded the committee, that the witness had said, that sir H. Wilson was determined not to give a single penny, but to stand on his hostility to the Catholic claims.Mr. Batley
 was in favour of pursuing the inquiry. The witness's declaration in favour of the forty burgesses was only matter of opinion, the value of which might be judged of by the various means in the power of the committee.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 remarked, that the committee could not act upon the mere opinion of the witness after it had been given.Sir E. Knatchbull
10651064 contended, that the opinion of the witness could not influence the vote of a single member, nor add at all to the weight of the testimony the hon. gentleman was scraping together to disfranchise the borough of East Retford. The assertion of the witness was, that there were forty burgesses who would not take bribes, and he was told to go out and mark them in the list, without being able to say from his; own knowledge whether such and such a man had taken a bribe. To take such evidence was only to incumber the minutes, and indulge curiosity without furthering the ends of justice.10651064Mr. Calcraft
1066 was re-called to prove, that Leadbeater was one of those he had seen paid in 1812, at the Angel-inn. Witness was cross-examined by Mr. Denman, to ascertain whether he had not been accused of keeping some money intrusted to him? He answered very positively in the negative. At the Angel-inn Pickup had the money and paid it. Witness never touched a farthing of it: one man who had not attended there, was under the mistake that witness had his money, but such was not the fact: no money was intrusted to him to be distributed; it was not true that the electors had objected to his being employed as an election agent, because they alleged he had withheld any money from them. He had only paid one man himself, and that had been within a few days afterwards. He believed that the payments for the election of 1812, were all completed in 1814. It was well known that he was the agent of Mr. Osbaldeston in 1812, and he had pointed out to Mr. Pickup who were likely to be the friends of Mr. Osbaldeston. There was not a farthing deposited with the witness for the purpose of making payments. He had been clerk to the magistrates of the district for twelve or fourteen years. Mr. Clark was the partner of Mr. Vaughan, and the former had been connected with a celebrated will-cause that had been tried some years ago. Buxton was not paid because he was so intolerably drunk, otherwise he could have had his money, if he had come down for it. The witness had signed a paper that had been brought to his office for the purpose of obtaining the removal or extension
1066Mr. Richard Hannam
—Have you ever received any penalties that have been levied under the game laws? I have.—Did you put those penalties into your own pocket? No; I have paid them over to the clergyman of the parish, and to the proper authorities.—The borough of East Retford was situated in the hundred of Bassetlaw. If the right of election was extended over the whole hundred, there would be seventy-four townships, or parishes included in it. There were many noblemen and gentlemen in the hundred who would have influence, owing to their estates. If the number of voters should be 1,200, there would be a great number of them under the political influence of the Duke of Newcastle.By Mr. Crompton.
.—If you were told a person had said to the freemen that he would do what was right and just, what should you understand by it? That he would pay them the forty guineas.By Mr. Davenport
1068l1067 said, it now became his duty to introduce a question of considerable delicacy, on which he wished to have the advice and assistance of the com-
1068l1067Mr. D. W. Harvey
.—The question for the committee to consider is, whether, if the hon. gentleman be called to the bar, he will feel disposed to answer any questions that may be put to him, and if not, what power the committee possesses to enforce answers? The case of calling a member of the House to the bar is not, I believe, a very common one: but instances have occurred where members who were called upon to be examined before the House of peers have refused to answer certain questions. My impression is, that the hon. gentleman may also refuse to answer.The Chairman
 said, it was in the power of the committee to demand answers to such questions as might be put to a member.Mr. Wynn
 said, he did not mean to say any thing at all on this question. He did not think it was necessary. He felt ashamed of nothing that he had done. As to what the hon. member for Colchester had said about his conduct, he would make no observation on it. He had been elected for this borough in 1812 and 1818; and, if that House determined to call on him for information, he hoped it would be found that he never had swerved from the right line of duty. But this he would say, that he never would come forward at the mere wish of the hon. member for Colchester, to enter into any explanation. It must be a better man than the hon. member for Colchester who would bring him to disclose his private affairs. [Cries of order.] He would not be examined by that hon. member.Mr. Crompton
 rose to order. The hon. member for Derby had chosen to state, that while he was willing to be examined by other persons, he would not allow himself to be examined by the hon. member for Colchester.Mr. D. W. Harvey
.—" I won't—I won't."Mr. Crompton
.—I say this, that if the committee come to the resolution to examine the hon. member for Derby, or if any other hon. member shall be examined, I, as member for Colchester, will interrogate that man, and it will not be in the hon. gentleman's power to prevent me.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, the hon. member would certainly have a right to examine any witness at the bar.Mr. Wynn
 said, that his hon. friend (Mr. Crompton) evidently spoke under the impulse of very strong feeling. He should therefore recommend to the committee, that, in the state of excitation under which his hon. friend laboured at that moment, the question should be adjourned, and his hon. friend's examination taken at a future day.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he never would dispute the power of the House; but he would say, that he never would be examined at their bar until it was made an order of the committee. He would not, at the nod or beck of any individual, come forward to disclose his private affairs. He was perfectly ready to bow to the decision of the House. They were deliberating upon a very important question, on which they were justified in procuring all the information they could; but he would not be bullied into any thing by any individual; and to that individual he would say, "When you are ready to lay open all the transactions of your life, and let the public judge of them, am I ready to do the same" [cries of "hear," and "order."]Mr. Crompton
 said, he must again suggest to the committee, that no member could be examined contrary to his inclination.The Chairman
1070 said, he had never before heard that any member of that House possessed within it, a privilege which exempted him from such examination, if it were the pleasure of the House to require that he should undergo it. The case was very different in respect of applications of this sort proceeding from the other House; for nothing was more reasonable than that one branch of the legis-
1070Mr. Wynn
 said, the hon. member for Derby had misunderstood him if he had supposed him to say that he would exercise any personal interference. He had spoken merely as a member of the House. But in answer to what had fallen from the hon. member for Derby respecting the transactions of his life, he would tell that hon. member, that if he chose to move for an inquiry into all the transactions in which he (Mr. Harvey) had been engaged, from his cradle until the present moment, he should be ready and willing to go into the inquiry.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, there was an evident misunderstanding on the part of the hon. member for Derby, in supposing that the hon. member for Colchester had attempted to exercise any improper jurisdiction. But a question had arisen, as to whether the House had the power of examining one of its own members against that member's inclination. It appeared to be the opinion of some, that a member, if he pleased, could protect himself under his privilege. Now the best way of settling this question, would be to move, "that the hon. member for Derby be examined in his place."Sir R. Wilson
1071 said, he was sorry that the hon. gentleman who had proposed that Mr. Crompton should be examined, should have prefaced his motion by the observations which he had made. It was true that that hon. gentleman had not said that he would exercise any [improper jurisdiction; but then it would have been better if he had abstained altogether from making any reference to the share which Mr. Crompton had taken in this investigation. An observation which the hon. gentleman had made, appeared to him to justify the warmth which it had excited in the hon. member for Derby, he meant the observation that whatever delicacy he (Mr. D. W. Harvey) might have felt in moving, "that the hon. member for Derby should be examined," was removed by the part which that hon.
1071Mr. Secretary Peel
 concurred in the propriety of postponing the motion until it could be considered with better temper.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 assured the hon. member for Derby, that he did not mean any thing disrespectful when he proposed his examination. He thought that if that hon. member had been silent, it would have been more delicate; but as that hon. member had taken part in the discussion, he thought it as well to examine him. He had stated to several hon. members, before the occurrence of this evening, that it was his opinion that both Mr. Evans and Mr. Crompton ought to be called to the bar of the House.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, he conceived the hon. member to have censured him for taking a part in the examination.Mr. Crompton
 said, that in his opinion, there had been evidence enough given on the subject last session. Under these circumstances he had no intention to call on the hon. member for Derby. He had other witnesses whom he could call if the House pleased, but he considered his case to be fully established, and was ready to close it at any time. It was no longer his case, but that of the committee.Mr. Tennyson
.—What have you to say to that evidence?—Witness.—I positively deny it. I still persist in the evidence I gave. I am innocent of it; Hannam was then called in and identified Leadbeater.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 then moved, that it was the opinion of the committee that Leadbeater having been guilty of gross and wilful falsehood, be committed to Newgate.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that although he had no difficulty in inflicting the other evening that punishment upon a man who had, in an examination before the House, committed wilful perjury, yet felt some doubts as to the propriety of pursuing the same course in a case where a witness was merely contradicted by the testimony of others, and that testimony not confirmed by any other incontestible evidence.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, they could not have stronger testimony against any man, and thought it necessary to the dignity of the House that he should be committed.Mr. Benett
 said, the witness might not be speaking the truth, but the House had not heard the evidence which might be produced on his part to disprove what was said by his accusers.Mr. Twiss
 expressed his surprise that the learned gentleman should have any doubts upon the subject. The evidence of two respectable witnesses was all that was required to hang a man for felony, and yet the House paused upon that testimony in a case like the present.Mr. Benett
 repeated his assertion, that the witness might be able to disprove what was asserted by other evidence, and that he ought to be allowed the same time and notice for that purpose as a criminal put upon his trial.Mr. Twiss
 said, that the testimony of Leadbeater had excited suspicion before he was confronted with Hannam and Newton, and the House ought to recollect that he was the son of the bell-man, who distributed all the money.Mr. Alderman Waithman
1073 said, he had no difficulty in stating, that the evidence of two was preferable to that of one, still he did not see that this witness could be committed on the evidence of two other parties, without having an opportunity afforded him of proving his statement. This was always the case in prosecutions for perjury. He recommended that the
1073The Attorney-general
 observed, that the House was not bound in its proceedings by the same strictness of rule which governed a court of law. It was to be recollected, that although a man accused before parliament of perjury had not the same advantages of defence that he would have in a court of law, the punishment inflicted upon him in case of conviction was considerably lighter. Unless the House acted with decision, it would be impossible for it to obtain the truth. If persons like the witness, were assured of the forbearance of the House, they had only to deny stoutly every thing that was alleged against them, and it would be impossible either to have the facts ascertained, or guilt brought home to the offending party.Lord John Russell
 said, that the House would do well to be extremely cautious in its proceedings; since a hasty decision, whatever might be the quantum of personal suffering inflicted upon the individual, had the effect of casting indelible disgrace upon his character. In a court of law, the judge told the jury, in summing up the evidence, that if there was doubt in their minds they must give the prisoner the benefit of it. Now, in this case he had doubts, and he could not bring himself to vote for the motion.Mr. G. Bankes
 was of opinion, that the assimilation of the House to a court of law was totally untenable. The object was, to obtain truth by simple and comprehensive examination, and to substitute common sense for legal subtlety. It was abundantly clear, from the evidence, that this man had received election money upon three several occasions. He did not see how it was possible for the House to shut their eyes to the notorious fact, and should certainly vote for the motion.Sir J. Wrottesley
 contended, that no man ought to be declared guilty upon any charge without having an opportunity of being heard in his defence. This was principle of common justice, not peculiar to courts of law, but recognized by every tribunal in the world.Mr. Twiss
1074 thought there was sufficient
1074Mr. Wynn
1076l1075 said, he could not concur with the noble lord, that because the House inflicted a less heavy punishment for perjury than would be inflicted by a court of law, it was on that account the less bound to be governed by the same principles of law and justice. Though the physical suffering inflicted by a sentence of the House might be comparatively trivial, it was to be remembered that by that sentence the character of an honest man, and even a man in the highest station of life, might be blasted for ever. Though the evidence before the House might warrant a moral conviction, it did not seem to him sufficiently clear to send a man to Newgate upon. It was just possible that the witnesses who deposed to the fact of Leadbeater's having received money, might have an interest in what they stated. The lists only proved that there had been an intention to pay him, not that he had been paid: the individuals who spoke to his having been paid, were those to whom money had been intrusted for his payment; and the House would observe that as these were transactions in which no receipts were given, the payment or non-payment must stand upon the allegation of the individual. He confessed that he was disposed, before Leadbeater was committed to Newgate, to call in the witnesses who had contradicted him, and re-examine them.1076l1075Mr. Secretary Peel
 again pressed for the examination of Mr. Crompton on Monday.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that if, on Monday, the hon. member for Bletchingley thought his case deficient, and if it should appear that the House had the power to compel Mr. Crompton to give evidence, whether inclined to do so or not, then he should have no objection to such a proceeding; but he could not allow it to be considered as a matter of course.Mr. Secretary Peel
 was then admitted to the bar; and addressed the committee in be half of the burgesses of East Retford, The learned counsel having concluded his speech, the House resumed, and the chairman obtained leave to sit again,Mr. Denman
 said, he could not help retaining the impression that the remonstrance was most unnecessary and uncalled-for.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 put it to the House, and to the hon. and learned gentleman himself, whether he was justified in calling him to order for holding a conversation with the Secretary of State. Did the hon. and learned gentleman wish him to call at the right hon. Secretary's office, when he could ask a question of him in the House with so little inconvenience?Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, it was impossible for him to declare that the statement in question had no foundation whatever. He could only say, that no intelligence of the suspension of Mr. Courtenay Smith had reached the Board of Control. He would, however candidly state, that information had been received of an explanation having been called for from Mr. Smith of the expression alluded to. Further than that, he knew nothing on the subject.Mr. Courtenay
 said, that the explanation had been called for by the vice-president of the Council.Mr. Courtenay
 expressed his dissent from the greater part of the observations of the hon. member. He did not think any evidence was wanted to prove general corruption in the borough. Some hon. members had entertained doubts and scruples which surpassed his comprehension. They seemed to forget things in the evidence, that an unexceptionable witness, named Thornton, had produced accounts as well kept as they could be in any merchant's counting-house: there were not only the sums paid, but all the persons receiving the money. He thought this a most convincing fact. The only circumstance which made him feel any difficulty in rejecting Mr. Crompton's testimony was, that the world would say that the House acted inconsistently, if not unjustly, in treating persons of a humble class in life with great severity, for an offence which they overlooked when it was committed by one of its own members. He had no wish to examine Mr. Crompton; for he wanted no further evidence to make up his judgment; but he thought that the House ought to consider, whether it would not injure its own character with the country if it failed to command the attendance of that gentleman.Mr. Alderman Waithman
l.1085 said, that on the subject of the examination of their members in the manner proposed, the information furnished by the current of authorities was rather of a complex kind. No committee had, he thought, a power to originate a motion for the examination of any witness whether he were a member or not, without receiving an order from the House. Among the authorities, there were several instances of orders for the examination of witnesses, with the superadded words, "if they should think fit." On the whole, however, he was disposed to assume, that the House, if it pleased, had the power to examine members as witnesses in any business before them. He knew that there were instances of members having at first refused to be examined, but who had submitted after some wavering; in no instance had the House proceeded, as far as he could learn, to commit to the Tower in case of a refusal. For his own part, being satisfied on the point to which alone he thought Mr. Crompton could be examined, he saw no necessity for calling upon that hon. member. Still, as this was a case in which they had to decide judicially, and where their decision ought alone to be founded upon the uninfluenced operation of their consciences, he would yield his opinion, should it appear that any number of hon. members were anxious to have Mr. Crompton examined. He cared little for the prevalence of any feeling elsewhere, that they would be disposed to screen one of their own members: all he should ask himself was, ought this particular course to be taken? Because, if he felt it ought, he would do it, regardless of popular impressions. If many hon. members were desirous of examining Mr. Crompton, then he thought it quite clear that in the course of such examination no question should be put which could expose the witness to penalties, or to his being placed in an unfavourable situation elsewhere. The examination should not be conducted with any view of criminating the hon. member himself, but solely for the purpose of
l.1085Mr. Secretary Peel
1087 said, there was not a shadow of difference between his right hon. friend and himself as to the power of the House to compel the attendance of any member to be examined before a committee. The result of his inquiry was
1087Mr. Secretary Peel
 recommended the hon. member to withdraw his motion. If it went to a division, he should not vote for it.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he could bear testimony to the fact, that the hon. member for Colchester upon a former evening, and before any of the imputations alluded to had been made, had pressed as anxiously for the examination of Mr. Crompton as he had done upon the present occasion. There was no question, therefore, as to the purity of the hon. member's motives; and seeing that, he trusted the hon. member would not call for a division.Mr. Peel
dernier1094, being of an opinion diametrically opposite to that of the noble lord, and of the hon. gentleman, felt himself bound to state, in a few words, the reason of that difference. There were many persons in the House better quali-
dernier1094Sir J. Sebright
travail publique said, that in contrasting the modes of punishment in our army with those in the French army, hon. gentlemen had spoken of the latter as though no other punishments were known in it besides solitary confinement and death. They had forgotten all the gradations of punishment; that in the French army offences were divided into two classes, the one of which consisted of faults against discipline, and the other of crimes. Faults against discipline were visited with fourteen days' confinement, being kept on bread and water for three days, and other punishments of a lenient nature. Crimes were the subject of the sentences of a court-martial, and the punishments assigned for them were travail publiqueMr. Warburton
1098 said, that hon. gentlemen ought not to forget of what class of persons the army was composed. Some of them were wayward and disorderly, and a great portion of them exactly at the age when men's passions were the most ungovernable. Physically speaking, the army was the most uncontrollable body of men in the community. And yet they had to undergo the greatest privations; were exposed to insult without the means of resenting it; and were called upon to do their duty silently and instantaneously. It was therefore absolutely necessary that such men should be restrained by a very severe code of laws. He would call upon the noble lord who wished to abolish corporal punishment in the army to say what he would substitute in its place. He was free to admit that military men were greatly indebted to hon. gentlemen, and especially to the hon. baronet, the member for Westminster, for bringing this subject
1098Colonel Lindsay
1100 thought that, although corporal punishment was not allowed in foreign armies, the discipline of them was preserved with greater severity than in ours, because the infliction of capital punishment was more frequent. The noble mover had attributed to him an argument which he had never used: that noble lord had made him say that, as boys were flogged at school, he saw no reasons why soldiers should not be flogged. Now, no such argument had ever fallen from his lips. He had commanded a regiment for many years, and had always introduced corporal punishment as seldom as possible. There was, perhaps, no regiment in which it had been inflicted in so few instances. He was not, however, of opinion that the punishment could be altogether done away with, although it ought to be as seldom resorted to as possible. In some instances he had had recourse to it; and there were I two in which young soldiers, on whom it had been inflicted, had thanked him for the salutary effect it had had upon them, in deterring them from continuing in a course of offences which would have led to severer punishment in the end. The British army had been contrasted with the armies of other countries. For his part, he thought the British soldiers, who had beaten all the armies that had been brought against them, had military character enough. Besides, as soon as they were disembodied, I they fell into the mass of the people, and
1100Colonel Wood
 said, that some objections which he had to part of the bill having been removed, he now gave it his hearty support.Mr. Fergusson
 said, he had no objection to the principle of the bill, but thought the relief ought not to be extended to Roman Catholics who had purchased the estates of Protestants, nor to Protestants who had purchased those of Roman Catholics; for they bought them subject to those payments.The Attorney-general
 protested against any hasty attempts to remodel an army which had driven the invincible legions of France from one end of the world to the other.General Duff
 said, that the hon. gentleman had been misled; for he had not sent his compliments to him, or any message on the subject. With respect to the present question, if he had abstained from calling for the evidence of Mr. Crompton, Mr. Evans, or Mr. Osbaldeston, he had done so, not from any desire of preventing their exposure, but because he had been given to understand that those gentlemen would be unable to prove the receipt of money by the burgesses.Mr. Tennyson
1084l.l. said, that the question of the propriety of calling Mr. Foljambe as a witness to the bar had been so ably disposed of by the hon. gentleman on the other side, that he felt himself excused from the necessity of saying a word upon the subject. Under the peculiar circumstances in which that gentleman was placed, he felt that he should not be justified in summoning him as a witness before them. "With respect to the observations which his hon. and learned friend had made upon Mr. Foljambe's connexion with a part of the case proved before the committee up stairs, all he had to say was this, that the conduct of earl Fitzwilliam, as there disclosed, had no bearing whatever on the case which he had undertaken to lay before the House. If his hon. and learned friend had any charge to make against that noble individual, it was for his hon. and learned friend to bring it forward as a substantive charge against a peer of parliament. As he had been obliged to touch upon the conduct of earl Fitzwilliam, he thought it mere justice to the character of that illustrious nobleman to add, that though it had appeared that he had advanced 1,2001084l.l.Mr. Tennyson
1089l.l. said, he was quite at a loss to account for the imputation so pointedly made against him by the hon. member for Hull, that he was influenced by feelings of spleen towards Mr. Crompton. He disclaimed solemnly that he had not felt the slightest spleen towards the hon. gentleman. As to what had been said by the hon. member who conducted the inquiry he would reply to him in the words of Sterne, "that the ass had sought his master as much only as the master had sought the ass." He had been induced to interfere in this inquiry in consequence of two gentlemen, connected with East Retford, having called upon him, who, after presenting that hon. gentleman's compliments, had stated, that he would feel personally obliged if he would give his aid in conducting this investigation. The persons who had thus induced him to intrude sat at that moment under the gallery, at the bar of the House. He had told them at that time, that, in his opinion, the inquiry would be mere trifling, if the committee did not call, not only on Mr. Crompton but on Mr. Evans. He knew nothing of Mr. Osbaldeston till he heard of him in the course of this inquiry, and he would have been as ready to have called him if it had been necessary. But there was no occasion for doing that, as they had had his agent Pickup, before them, who had stated, that he had taken the money for the express purpose of paying the voters; and they had also had Hannam before them, who had assisted Pickup on that occasion. Here there was a complete identification of a corrupt purpose. Not so with respect to Mr. Crompton; for, from all that appeared in the evidence of Fox, he might still be in possession of the 2,8401089l.l.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that insinuations had been thrown out against him, and private motives had been attributed to him, and he therefore was anxious to press this motion to a division, in order to satisfy the House of the purity of his motives. If he stood alone he would divide the House thirty times. If, however, the House were satisfied as to the purity of his motives, he should not press for a division.Mr. D. W. Harvey
l.10801079l.1078 said, that having, on Friday, intimated an intention of examining a member of the House on the subject of this bill, he would apprize the House, before he stated the reasons which induced him to make the motion, of what had passed between that hon. member and himself. Being desirous, on every occasion, to observe the maxim—"Do unto others as you would wish to be done by," he addressed a letter to Mr. Crompton, stating his intention of persevering in the motion, and desiring to know whether Mr. Crompton would attend voluntarily, or prefer attending by a compulsory order of the House. In answer to that communication, he received a letter from Mr. Crompton to the following effect:—"That it was not his present intention to be in his place in the House on Monday next, and in case he wished to change his intention, he would inform Mr. Harvey of that circumstance; that, according to his present views, he would rather be in his place some day subsequent to Wednesday; but that Mr. Crompton's colds were so tedious, as to leave him no chance of attending without making himself ill." In consequence of this letter, he should move that Mr. Crompton attend the committee on Friday next. He would now briefly state the reasons which induced him to make the motion. Since last Friday he had read all the evidence taken, not only at the bar of the House, but before the committee appointed to try the merits of the election; and the impression which he had entertained on Friday evening was strengthened by that perusal. It should be recollected, that the object of this bill was that of punishment, by striking the borough out of the political map of the country. The bill was not introduced upon the principle of general reform, but upon the principle of applying reform in any particular case in which palpable malfeasance should be proved. Acting upon this principle, there were three courses of proceeding. The first and most lenient was that of punishing only particular indi-
l.10801079l.1078Mr. D. W. Harvey
10831082 said, he merely rose to state to the House the situation of Mr. Crompton. His hon. friend had intended to have met the challenge of the hon. member for Colchester; but he was at present too much indisposed to come down to the House. He held in his hand a medical certificate from a gentleman of the highest character in his profession, stating that Mr. Crompton was so ill that he could not attend that night in his place without extreme danger. He had himself seen Mr.
10831082Mr. Sykes
 objected to the mode which the bill recognised, of taking the valuation of land for the purpose of the tax.Mr. Curteis
 entered into a lengthened explanation of the clauses of the bill. He pointed out the inequality of the assessment of the Land-tax, as it existed at present in England, both as regarded the Catholic and Protestant land-owners. It had been formed, as it then stood, in the reign of William 3rd. and had continued down to near the end of the reign of George 3rd. in the same disproportion. Another grievance under which the Catholics especially laboured, was the necessity of being compelled to prove the payment of the four shillings in the pound upon a rack-rent, before any relief could be sought in the court of Exchequer; and every succeeding year the evil had increased. The object of the bill was, not to place the Catholics in a better situation than the Protestants, with respect to the Land-tax, nor to throw on Protestants, that portion of the burthen from which the Catholics were to be relieved.Mr. G. Bankes
l.1081 said, he would take that opportunity of informing the hon. member for Bletchingley, that he did not consider the evidence, as it now stood, sufficient to disfranchise the borough of East Retford. The evidence of Hannam varied materially from that of Pickup; and he should wish to have both those witnesses re-examined with a view of seeing whether the discrepancy in their evidence could be reconciled. He also was of opinion, that the
l.1081Mr. G. Bankes
1092"Une fois gentilhomme, toujours gentilhomme!"10911090 rose, pursuant to notice, to move a clause for preventing corporal punishment in the army. In bringing
1092"Une fois gentilhomme, toujours gentilhomme!"10911090Lord Nugent
1097 strongly condemned the practice of flogging. It was a most sanguinary punishment; and, in his opinion, a disgrace to the British army. Those who opposed this practice were described as visionary speculatists; but he believed that lord Combermere would not be considered a speculatist; and that gallant officer had, in a very great degree, if not entirely, abolished, the inhuman practice
1097Mr. Wilbraham
1093, in seconding the motion, observed that, in his opinion, the punishment of flogging had a tendency to increase the number of crimes. He had I lately conversed with a person who had been many years the principal keeper of Newgate, and he had been assured by him, that he seldom recollected a criminal flogged at the Old Bailey who had not been committed again within less than twelve months for a new offence. A punishment of that kind invariably produced a total loss of character, and such a recklessness of consequences, that it was not a matter of surprise that the unfortunate
1093Mr. John Smith
 concurred in the recommendation.Mr. Hume
1099 said, it would seem from the speech of the gallant member that the British army owed its superiority over other armies to the system of flogging that prevailed in it. Now he was by no means disposed to admit, that a practice which had a tendency to degrade the soldier, and to brutalize his mind, was a practice necessary to sustain the character of the British army. In Holland, Prussia, and in Wurtemberg, as well as in France, flogging had been abolished with the most beneficial effects: and even in Austria, and the few other places where it was continued, the flogging did not take place by removing the clothes of the soldier publicly, and punishing him in a manner so revolting to humanity as was practised in our service. When it was admitted that this punishment was not inflicted in more than one regiment out of four or five, and even then very seldom, it was evident that the perfect state of the discipline of our army was not owing to this practice. He had proposed a safe experiment; namely, that the abolition of this punishment
1099Mr. Hume
1086 thought there was not a shadow of doubt as to the power of the House to direct the examination of a member. In a committee of the whole House, every member had a right to put such questions as he thought fit to any other member. In this instance, he did not see sufficient grounds for the delay which would result from Mr. Crompton's examination, and, therefore he should vote against it. At the same time he proceeded only on the impressions of his own mind; and if he thought there were many members who wished to hear the evidence of Mr. Crompton, he would vote for his examination. As he considered it most important that every thing concerning the power of the House should be clearly understood, he would repeat, that he was clearly of opinion, that in a committee of the whole House, every member had a perfect and unquestionable right to examine any other member, without any fresh orders from the House. In the case of colonel Wardle, on the charges against the duke of York, no order had been made that he should attend in his place; but being called upon to answer some question, and having objected that one member of the committee should call on another, lord Colchester, then Speaker of the House, sitting as a member of the committee, stated, that no member could refuse to be examined before a committee of the whole House. But it was said, suppose the member should object, the committee had no power to enforce his attendance. The committee could do in this case what they could do in any other similar instance. They would report the fact to the House, and obtain its interference. This was the course they always followed. In the cases of the witnesses who had been guilty of prevarication and false evidence in this investigation, the committee had invoked the authority of
1086Mr. Wynn
1096boulet1095 said, he participated in all the humane sentiments which had been expressed by the noble lord and the hon. member who had seconded the amendment. No man would more readily give up the present system than he would, if he had pointed out to him a safer or a better plan. He, however, was a friend to the discipline of the army, knowing that without strict discipline, an army was infinitely more dangerous to its friends than to its enemies. His feeling was, that times might arrive when it would be absolutely necessary to have recourse to corporal punishment for the preservation of due order and. discipline; and therefore
1096boulet1095Sir H. Vivian
1088 said, that some hon. members had stated that they considered the examination of Mr. Crompton necessary to establish facts. He for one was prepared to vote for the disfranchisement of the borough on the evidence he had heard. But he thought it very strange, that members, who differed from him as to the sufficiency of the evidence, should join with him in refusing to hear further evidence. It had been stated, that the proposition to examine Mr. Crompton had originated in personal feelings; but the hon. member for Colchester had solemnly disclaimed the imputation. That hon. gentleman had stated that he held the examination of Mr. Crompton necessary, to enable him to arrive safely at the conclusion, which, as a judge, he must draw from the evidence before him. As to the objection that Mr. Crompton might, by some of his answers, subject himself to prosecution, he disregarded it; for the committee would prevent the hon. gentleman, from giving any answer which might
1088Sir R. Wilson
 said, that if the only question was, whether the evidence of Mr. Crompton was or was not necessary to make out the case against the borough of East Retford, he should vote for that hon. gentleman's examination. But he wished to argue the question on higher grounds. If the laws against bribery were constantly enforced, he would say, by all means discover all the parties guilty of corruption in these cases. But as it was notorious that nine tenths of the members who sat for boroughs in that House were returned either by bribes of money, or money's worth, he saw no reason to select any particular individual, and make him a scape-goat for the sins of others. The House could neither deceive itself nor the country; and he would say, unless the House was determined to adopt some general rule to suppress bribery, and to carry it in all instances into execution, he would not concur in inflicting what he must otherwise consider only a cruel and useless punishment. He should certainly vote for the bill, as the burgesses of East Retford had no right to use their privileges for selfish or corrupt purposes.Lord Howick
 considered that there was no necessity for examining Mr. Crompton.Mr. Lumley
1101 said, he would not again go over the old argument upon this subject. To state the objection to what was proposed generally, it was this,—that where there were large bodies of armed men collected together, strong measures were necessary to keep them in order. Means which might be used for this end in other countries, could not be resorted to in this. How, for instance, could the punishment, so much insisted on, of solitary confinement, be inflicted in this country? Our troops were not in strong garrisoned towns or military fortresses, where men could be confined apart from their comrades. We had no mode of imprisoning soldiers, except sending them to the common gaols; and he did not think that an association with the ordinary inhabitants of gaols would be likely to send a soldier back to his regiment at all improved. It was a great mistake to suppose that corporal punishment did not prevail in foreign armies. Foreign soldiers were subject to blows and stripes, and the only difference between them and ours was, that in the one case this species of punishment was inflicted with trial, and in the other without trial. He apprehended that the House would not be inclined to follow this course. Many of the substitutes for this punishment in foreign countries would not be tolerated in England. If our soldiers were seen parading the streets with cannon-balls chained to their legs, such a spectacle would be much more revolting and disgusting to the public mind than the present system. The noble mover wished to abolish all corporal punishments, except for certain offences named in the clause. Now, the mutiny act and the articles of war said, "Go to the civil power whenever it is possible," and the cases in which this was not possible were the very cases in which the noble lord wished to do away with corporal punishment. The mutiny act was passed to provide for cases which called for the immediate interposition, and which the ordinary course of the law could not put down. These were, desertion, disobedience, insubordination, and mutiny, whatever it might be, and these the noble lord wished to exclude from corporal
1101Lord Palmerston
11081107 began by remarking, that the hon. gentleman had stated, that on the previous occasion when he had brought this question before parliament, he had withdrawn it at his (Mr. F. L.'s) suggestion. He now rose to offer another suggestion to the hon. gentleman, which was, that he should change the course he was following, and, instead of asking for a committee of inquiry, at once bring in a bill. In his
11081107Mr. F. Lewis
, though an enemy to abstract reform, yet thought that, where a clear case of deprivation of undoubted right, which once existed, had been shown, the House was bound to give it their closest attention. His own opinion was, that in most of the cases of local jurisdiction, a barter was made between the burgesses and the Crown, by which the former were released from the expense of sending representatives to parliament. However, as this might not have been the case with all the places named by the hon. mover, it was but fair to go into an inquiry on the subject.Colonel Sibthorpe
 said, that in this discussion one very material point had been overlooked. The information he possessed had been obtained on the investigation of the Warwick case before the House. The objection taken to the admission of the freeholders of Coventry to the right of voting for the county, was, that they could not show that the city of Coventry had ever belonged to the county of Warwick; and that the freeholders of Coventry were, therefore, not subject to the usual duties which devolved on all freeholders of the county. They never served on juries; they were not liable to serve the office of sheriff; nor did they share the expenses of the county, nor pay towards the county rates. If they had lost the franchise on the one hand, they had gained many advantages by it on the other; and he believed, if the question were put to these freeholders in The different parts of the country, whether they would prefer to have the elective franchise restored to them with the ordinary duties that accompanied it, they would decline it. The customs were very different in every one of these instances; and he was convinced, that if the gift of the franchise were offered them, with the attendant responsibilities, they would consider it rather a burthen than a benefit.Lord Lowther
11111110 agreed entirely with his noble friend. The hon. mover proposed to examine each individual case on its own grounds; but this general proposition was founded on a fallacy. The freeholder whose property was situated in a city or town which was a county in itself, could not, in certain cases, vote for the city or town where he was not a freeman,
11111110The Attorney-general
, although a member for the city of London, returned by the livery, felt it due to justice to say, that there was a very large number of freeholders in the city—men of great property —who were unfairly excluded from the privilege of voting for a representative in parliament. It might be unpopular to say so, but he thought this a grievance of which those persons had good reason to complain. It was indeed a matter worthy of consideration, whether, if the franchise could not be conferred upon these persons there ought not to be a fifth representative of the city, in order that the freeholders might have the means of procuring an organ of their opinion. If the honourable member (Mr. Sykes) succeeded in procuring a committee to inquire into the state of corporate towns, he thought the subject might be submitted to its attention.Mr. Alderman Wood
 confessed himself not reconciled to the proposition of the hon. member, by what had fallen from the worthy alderman. The worthy alderman proposed to go into the committee with an intention of subverting the right of the livery of London [No, no, from alderman Wood]. Why, the charter of the city of London was given to the livery upon, grounds with which the possession of a freehold had no concern, and yet the worthy alderman said, he was prepared to go into an inquiry as to the propriety of invading those rights, by giving the freeholders the power of voting for their freeholds.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, across the table, that he wished to give them a power of voting either for a member of the city of London or any where else.Alderman Wood
11151114 observed, that the proposition of the worthy alderman was
11151114Mr. Secretary Peel
11171116, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill to "authorize an additional Circuit Court of Justiciary to be held at Glasgow, and to facilitate Criminal Trials in Scotland," said, he did not anticipate any opposition to the motion. A great deal had been said of the progress of crime in this country, but he was sorry to say that crime in Scotland had kept pace with that increase. A return had been made of the number of criminal commitments in each year, so far back as the year 1805. In that year, the number of criminal commitments for all Scotland amounted only to eighty-five: in 1809 it had risen to between two hundred and three hundred;
11171116The Lord-Advocate
 thought it highly desirable that, measures should be adopted for bringing individuals accused of offences to as immediate a trial as possible. One great evil was the state of the gaols in Scotland. In the condition of those gaols he believed the increase of crime in a great measure to have originated. Nothing could be worse. A person shut up in one of those gaols for four or five months before trial must necessarily suffer such contamination that the punishment that might afterwards be inflicted on him could not be attended with any moral effect.Mr. Kennedy
1124l. said, that as his right hon. friend had signified his intention of acquiescing in the proposition, he thought there could be but one opinion as to the propriety of abstaining from all discussion which might have a tendency to provoke the irritable feeling which already existed in Ireland upon this subject, and which, if awakened, was calculated to defeat the great object which all parties had in view. To him the best ground for preferring a parliamentary committee to a commission was, that 40,0001124l.Mr. Secretary Peel
11231122 was glad that the motion was not to be opposed, as they were now totally without any efficient plan of national education in Ireland. All the schools were under the superintendence of the established church, and were therefore not places of resort to the Catholic. The charter schools of Ireland were certainly looked upon with great jealousy; and, as every society which had education for its object taught the doctrines of the church of England, or actually professed their wish to make converts from the errors of popery, there could be no common feeling between them and the Catholics. Out of the Protestants in Ireland one third were educated at the public expense: of the Catholics not one fourteenth. This made it necessary, that if education in Ireland was to be national, some active steps
11231122Mr. Brownlow
, in reply, observed, that his motion had been quite misunderstood. The object of it was not to confer a right, but to declare one which at present existed. The learned Attorney-general had maintained, without adducing a single proof in support of the assertion, that when the charters were granted by the Crown, a compact was entered into, by which the freeholders forfeited their right to vote. Now, he would contend that it was not competent for the Crown to enter into a compact to deprive any party of a legal right. In point of fact, the right never could be taken away; it was in existence to the present moment, and his motion was merely declaratory of its existence. Seeing, however, that the sense of the House was rather against the motion, he begged leave to withdraw it.Mr. Sykes
pari ratione11061105pro bono publico11041103 said, it would be recollected, that he had, at the end of the last parliament, endeavoured to draw the attention of the House to the state of the unrepresented freeholders in certain counties corporate, and that he had brought in a bill which was read a first time, declaratory of what he conceived to be the law upon the subject. He found that there were many districts, separated from the counties to which they belonged, in which the freeholders had no right to vote at the elections of knights of the shire; and to remedy that anomaly in the law, he had introduced a bill which was opposed by an hon. and learned gentleman opposite, on two distinct and separate grounds. The first respected the right of the freeholders to vote at elections for their respective counties. It was urged that though he had come to the conclusion, that they had such right, he was not therefore entitled to call upon the House to come to the same conclusion without investigation. The second respected the particular time at which his bill was introduced. It was at that time, as he had said before, near the end of the parliament, and some counties were already engaged in severe election contests. It was said, that it would be unfair to pass a bill at such a time, inasmuch as it would alter the number of votes in all the contested counties throughout the kingdom. He had yielded to the weight of these two arguments, and had deferred his bill to a future period, determining, however, to bring it forward again on the earliest opportunity. During the interval which had elapsed since the dissolution of the last parliament, he had turned the matter over and over again in his mind; and he was now of opinion, that the best shape in. which he could bring it again under the notice of parliament would be, by moving for a committee to inquire into the state of the representation in these counties corporate. He thought that such a mode of proceeding would obviate the objection which had previously been made to his motion, on the ground that he was taking the House by surprise. His attention had been drawn to the subject by a knowledge of the situation in which many of the inhabitants of the town which he had the honour to represent, were placed. King-
pari ratione11061105pro bono publico11041103Mr. Sykes
1119 was sorry that there
1119Mr. H. Drummond
 was of opinion that the increase of crime was not produced by an actual growth of vice and immorality amongst the people, but was occasioned by the hardness of the times which reduced the lower orders to the commission of practices of which they would not otherwise be guilty. The remedy proposed by the learned lord was to extend the number of the circuits, and thus to cause justice to be done more promptly. That certainly was desirable; but while he admitted that, he must be allowed to observe, that it would be better to seek out the cause of crime and to check it, than to direct their attention merely to the punishment of offences.Mr. Benett
1118 said, he had heard with great pain the statement made by the learned lord as to the increase of crime in Scotland. He did not think that he had, however, fairly explained the reason of that increase. In his Opinion, a great number of those commitments arose from the difficulties which individuals encountered in obtaining the necessaries of life; and he hoped the time would soon come when things would grow better, and when, in consequence, the growth of crime would be checked. This could only be effected by a general improvement of the situation of the people, and not by the adoption of temporary palliatives. He could not see why the practice of the city of London, with respect to the holding of frequent sessions, should not be followed throughout the country. One great cause of crime was the leaving individuals so long in prison, as their morals suffered by the example of those with whom they were obliged to associate. It would be much better, if, as was the case in the city of London, a session was held every six or eight weeks, at Glasgow and elsewhere.
1118Mr. Hume
1121l.l.l.1120 rose to make the motion of which he had given notice. He hoped that, if any discussion arose upon it, all asperity would be avoided and no topic touched upon that was likely to create angry feeling. Let them argue the principles of the question temperately, and strive to produce the happy result of agreeing upon some plan for the education of Ireland. All that he intended to do was, to make out a case which would warrant the appointment of a committee. For this purpose he would merely refer to the proceedings which had already taken place, and to the state in which the subject now stood. In the year 1806, education in Ireland was for the first time since the Union brought under the consideration of parliament. In that year a commission was appointed under the government of the duke of Bedford. The commissioners had presented fourteen reports between the
1121l.l.l.1120Mr. Spring Rice
 said, he should be ready to give the committee the power of examining witnesses, if, at a future time, that course should be found necessary; but he was anxious, in the first instance, to confine their attention to the reports of the commissions, in order, if possible, to avoid a mass of fresh evidence, which the desire to affirm contending opinions might multiply without end.Mr. S. Rice
11131112 confessed, that the line which, in some cases, separated the inhabitants of borough towns, and deprived them of the right of voting, was an anomaly in our representative system; but then, was not the whole of our system of representation an anomaly? He was disposed to take much the same view of the situation of these persons as his learned friend (the Attorney-general), and to consider that much of the evil had been produced by the lapse of time, and the change of circumstances. In many of the charters
11131112Mr. Wynn
 said, that perfectly concurring with his hon. friend in the advantages that would attend the diffusion of education in Ireland, he nevertheless wished his hon. friend had postponed his proposition to a more favourable opportunity. At present he confessed he was unable to see how it could be advantageously carried into effect. Still he could not refuse the means of eliciting all the information that could be obtained upon the subject. He confessed, however, that he was much less sanguine in his expectations of a beneficial result than was his hon. friend; and, standing in the situation in which he stood, he must be distinctly understood as declining to pledge himself to carry into effect any recommendation of the committee; although he should be most happy to do so, as far as was compatible with an abstinence from incurring any additional public expense, and with the principle of not extinguishing private benevolence.Mr. W. Lamb
"Had Cain been Scot, God had revers'd his doom,
Not forced to wander, but remain'd at home." hoped that the learned lord would take into consideration the disadvantage under which those English counties, which were near the Scotch borders laboured, in consequence of the system of banishment out of Scotland, which formed one of the punishments awarded by the Scottish law. Thus an unfortunate Scotchman, if banished from his native country for his misdeeds, immediately sheltered himself in Northumberland, and was by no means sorry to give tip his peat fire for a comfortable chimney corner in a neighbouring town. For his own part, he could not conceive how this banishment could be considered as a penalty. On this point he could not but quote the opinion of the poet, by whom it had been wittily said,
"Had Cain been Scot, God had revers'd his doom,
Not forced to wander, but remain'd at home."Sir M. W. Ridley
1109 said, the right hon. gentleman had entirely mistaken the object and views of his hon. friend. The committee proposed, were not to inquire into the expediency of setting up new rights, but only of restoring those which could be proved to have existed formerly, and which, under particular circumstances, had lapsed. The elective franchise of a freeholder was not a personal right, vested in the individual himself; it belonged to the freehold, and if that was sold, the right of voting was transferred with the property. In the town he had the honour of representing, there was a numerous body of freeholders who could vote neither for the town of Newcastle nor the county of Northumberland. In the time of Henry 4th, the town was separated into a county of itself. This was a privilege and distinction granted to it for the part it had taken in some commotions in the north, in which it had been particularly useful to the government. Originally, the town of Newcastle sent joint-representatives with the county of Northumberland. The first notice was in the 22nd of Edward 1st, when the representatives were styled the members for the united counties of Northumberland and Newcastle-on-Tyne. In three or four years the representation was divided, and Newcastle sent burgesses to parliament under its own charter, and the county sent its members also. The power given by the charter to elect representatives, included all free burgesses, whether by birth or servitude: but it did not, therefore, take away the right of voting from the freeholder. The right hon. gentleman had objected to the committee because he apprehended it would bring on a general inquiry into the whole state of the representation; but his hon. friend had stated that it would be confined to the particular question before the House, and was not to be extended to any general views of reform. If it was the opinion of the House, that his hon. friend should bring in a bill, he had no doubt he would agree to it, but the arguments of the right hon. gentleman as to that point, were singularly inconsistent; for while he had recommended a bill, he had proved the impossibility of entering into the discussion of every circumstance, unless in a committee. He there-
1109Sir M. W. Ridley
 denied that any such compact was ever entered into, as that upon which the Attorney-general founded his objections to the present motion. He knew that it was not so in Ireland; and he thought it could not be so in England. In the cities of Cork, Dublin, and Limerick, many persons, who could not give a vote for the members of the corporation, had yet the power to vote for the members of the county, and he believed that a similar practice prevailed in England. Where, then, was the compact to which the learned gentleman alluded, and upon which he had laid so much stress? Admitting, however, all that the learned gentleman had asserted upon the subject of these anomalies, he would say to the House, if there be an anomaly producing injury and injustice to a portion of the people, then it is your duty to remove it; rather than to say, like the learned gentleman, "I know this may be an anomaly, and that those persons are deprived of their rights, but we cannot cure the evil, lest it compel us to prosecute more extended inquiries into the state of the representation."Sir J. Newport
 thought it better not to enter at present into an examination of subjects which they would have to decide upon after the committee had made their report. Whatever might be the result of the labours of the committee, he was quite sure that much mischief might be done by a previous discussion of the topics which were to engage the attention of that committee. Several reports had been presented to the House, in consequence of a commission which he had had the honour to propose, and he could have wished that the recommendations contained in the last of those reports had been acted upon. As all the reports, however, were to be referred to this committee, whose business it would be, carefully to examine and compare them, he was not without hope that much good might result from their labours.Sir J. Newport
 saw no objection to the consideration of a subject so important. The hon. member had stated the nature of the system fairly and correctly, and it certainly did seem to require some reform. But he thought there was no necessity for entering on any further details at present; particularly as the subject had been taken up by the chancellor of the Exchequer, who would bring forward some measure for the regulations of these banks during the session.Mr. Dawson
 rose to move for a select committee to take into consideration the state of the laws relating to the passing of Irish Vagrants to their own country. The subject was one of great importance to the county of Lancaster, which was at considerable expense in passing Irish vagrants; and he thought the House would agree that it was hard that one county should be put to extraordinary expense, and feel the pressure almost exclusively, in consequence of its local situation. It would appear from the returns, that the numbers passed yearly were very considerable. In 1818, the numbers passed were 6,614; in 1819, 6,138. In 1823, there was an apparent reduction on the face of the returns; but it was only apparent, or if real was owing to temporary causes, as would appear from the subsequent increase. In 1823, the numbers were 1,337; in 1824, 3,043; in 1825, 3,358; and between June 1826, and July 1827, the numbers were 7,988. In fact, the evil had amounted to such a height, that something ought to be done to relieve the county of Lancaster from the burthen imposed upon it from this cause. His intention was, to move for a select committee, to inquire into the subject; and he thought the sooner they met the better, in order that they might decide what sort of returns they would require from the different counties, to enable them to enter into the merits of the case. His lordship concluded, by moving for the appointment of the said committee; which was agreed to.Lord Stanley
l.l.1136 rose to support the motion, which was absolutely necessary. The facts were shortly these: a statement had been laid before the Finance Committee relative to the financial condition of the country, drawn up in a very able, clear, and satisfactory manner, by the right hon. the Master of the Mint. It appeared, by this exposition, that these annuities had been sold at a considerable loss to the country. The evidence on which this statement was founded, was a letter from Mr. Finlayson to the Treasury. By this letter, the toss to the public was represent-
l.l.1136Lord Althorpe
 said, the speed of his hon. friend had disclosed to the House a source of profligate expenditure and of corrupt influence, which required to be checked without delay. His object in rising, was merely to ask the noble lord opposite to give a negative, as he hoped the noble lord could, to questions which he was going to ask him relative to two particular circumstances. He had been given to understand, that a certain officer in the army, who had been employed in the civil service of the country for the last fifteen years, and so employed that he was not allowed, by the rules of the military service, to receive his half-pay, had been allowed, after a lapse of fifteen years, in which he never received a farthing in virtue of his military commissions, to dispose of his half-pay. By that arrangement, a charge, which had had no existence for the last fifteen years, had been thrown upon the public. Now, did, he wished to know, this gentleman still continue in his civil employment? The other question which he had to ask related to a similar transaction in Ireland, where a military officer who had been in the civil service for the last eight years, and whose half-pay had consequently been suspended during that time, had also been allowed to sell his half-pay? He was sure it would be most satisfactory to the House, if he should prove to have been misinformed; but unless the rumours he had alluded to could be positively contradicted, he trusted that some member would move for a committee of inquiry, with a view specifically to inquire into the state of the half-pay, and to ascertain the extent of these disorders in the army.Sir James Graham
 recommended the House to refer this matter to the consideration of the Finance Committee, which he had no doubt would investigate it satisfactorily. He knew that this arrangement had been productive of great benefit to the army; but whether that benefit had been purchased by the country at too great an expense, he could not pretend to decide.Mr. Maberly
 approved of the arrangements which the noble Secretary had spoken of, as he thought they were such as to increase the efficiency of the army. The army had been improved by the opportunity afforded to young officers to obtain promotion. If the system recommended by his hon. friend had been followed, when war had come, the army would have been officered only by old gentlemen. His hon. friend really put the House out of humour with economy, by his plans for beggaring the service under pretence of reforming it. He was as anxious as his hon. friend for economy; but he would first of all have the establishment on an efficient footing.Mr. Calcraft
l.l.1128l.l.1127 rose to call the attention of the House to the novel, injudicious, and ruinous mode of proceeding at present adopted with regard to Promotions in the Army. The House was aware that up to the 2nd
l.l.1128l.l.1127Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.1125 said, that on a recent occasion he had moved for returns of the accounts of Savings Banks, from the period of their establish-
l.l.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.1125Mr. Hume
113511341133l.1132l.1131l.l.l.1130 said, he had no objection to grant the returns called for. He could not, however, but express his surprise that the hon. member for Montrose should seize the present opportunity for going into such details and calculations; for he should have thought that matters of that sort, connected as they were with the army estimates, would have been referred to that committee of finance of which the hon. gentleman was himself a member. He would leave it to the gentlemen who formed that committee, to deal as they thought proper with the opinion which the hon. member had expressed of them, if not in words, at least by inference—an opinion which went the length of telling the country, that they were not
113511341133l.1132l.1131l.l.l.1130Lord Palmerston
 having moved the order of the day for the second reading of this bill,Lord J. Russell
 opposed the further progress of the bill; and, after referring to the evidence taken by the House upon the subject, contended that it was not sufficient to warrant the severe course now recommended. James, the petitioner upon whose recognizance the inquiry took place, had admitted, that the whole was a base conspiracy. He also complained, that the bill contained only ten lines referring to Penryn, and seventeen pages relating to Manchester; to which place, without the previous sanction of the House, it was proposed at once to transfer the right of election.Mr. Manning
 contended, that the bill was contrary to the first principles of justice, and confounded the innocent with the guilty. The present generation was to be visited for the sins of the last, and offences of twenty years' standing were raked up to afford a pretext for disfranchisement. If the noble lord would bring in a bill to inflict an equal punishment upon the giver and the taker of a bribe, it should have his I hearty support: at present the visitation was quite unequal, or rather the most guilty part was allowed to escape. At all events, before the second reading of the bill, it was extremely improper to introduce the name of Manchester.Mr. Stewart
l.1139 expressed his desire to say a few words in defence of the borough he represented. He argued, that it would be preposterous to act upon the evidence already taken, especially after the proof since afforded that the petition against his hon. colleague originated in a conspiracy. New facts had come out since the last session, which not only justified, but imperatively required, every member, as an act of justice, to change the opinion he had previously formed against the borough of Penryn. A most unfair prejudice had been excited against the character of the borough; and in a petition recently presented from the burgesses, they were willing to place the disfranchisement of Penryn upon the issue of the proof that a conspiracy had existed, founded upon falsehood, and that out of it arose the petition against his hon. colleague. The hon. member (Mr. Manning) had read a letter from one of six conspirators, acknowledging the fact, and that the object was to extort money from the two members.
l.1139Mr. D. Barclay
11451144114311421141 said:—I rise at this period of the debate, partly because I believe I am already in possession of the various views entertained on this subject, and partly because it is not impossible the line I am about to suggest may meet with the acquiescence of the noble lord, and thus preclude the necessity of a protracted discussion. The bill introduced by the noble lord proposes to declare the absolute disfranchisement of Penryn, and the transfer of that franchise to Manchester. My hon. friend behind me (Mr. Manning), and the hon. gentleman who spoke last, contend, not only against that course, but against the whole of the bill. They deny that there is any ground for the disfranchisement of this borough, and consequently they oppose the transfer of the elective franchise to any other place. On the present occasion I shall speak with reference to that part of the question only. I am for taking an intermediate course. I am prepared to vote in concurrence with so much of the noble lord's proposal as goes to disfranchise the borough of Penryn; but I am not prepared to affirm the proposition of the transfer of that franchise to the town of Manchester. The bill the noble lord has introduced in the present year differs from that affirmed by the House of Commons last year, and sent up to the House of Lords. This bill embraces two distinct objects—one in which the execution of justice is concerned, and which inflicts a penalty on a borough assumed to be delinquent; the other, I which involves a consideration of mere policy, namely, the place to which the franchise shall be transferred. In making these observations, I propose to keep the consideration of these two objects as distinct from each other as they really are in themselves. I shall consider first, what justice requires to be done with regard to the borough of Penryn; and next, what policy suggests we should do with the forfeited franchise, if we should decide that it is to be transferred. 1 am not prepared to concur with the two hon. gentlemen who have preceded me, in denying the necessity of the disfranchisement of this borough. The question has been already decided by this House; and if we mean to put an end to litigation, we must adhere to the decisions of the House. This subject was under consideration last year; the bill did not pass tacitly through the House, nor without attention being called to it in
11451144114311421141Mr. Secretary Peel
1146pro forma said, he was ready to consent to the course suggested by the right hon. gentleman. Certainly he did not wish to pledge the right hon. gentleman, to the proposition that the franchise should be transferred from Penryn to Manchester. Perhaps the right hon. gentleman would have no objection to the bill being committed 1146pro formaLord John Russell
 asked, with what consistency the members of that House could vote for the disfranchisement of this borough on the ground of its corruption? Who of them could lay his hand on his heart, and say, he had never directly or indirectly, induced those who had not the benefit of his education, to commit these crimes for the sake of political power? Such members alone could vote for this bill without impugning their consistency. Of the one hundred and forty-five members who had voted for it last session, two-thirds at least had obtained their seats by the same means. This was not his sentiment, individually, but that of all England, which looked with indignation on the very sub-orners of this perjury sitting in judgment on the perjurers. No member could honestly vote for that bill, unless he could lay his hand on his heart, and declare that he had not expended a single shilling to purchase his return. He would himself vote for the bill, provided he was assured that every member would come forward and state as he divided: ' I, for one, have not been guilty of bribery or corruption; I have never induced a single individual to commit crimes similar to those of which the electors of Penryn have been guilty. But as long as such men sat as the judges, he would vote for the acquittal of the borough. What must be thought of the consistency of the members of the British House of Commons, who made their way into it with agents, bribing right and left? He was not the advocate of bribery, nor against the punishment of corrupt voters; but he would not countenance the inconsistency and injustice of suborning men to commit perjury and afterwards punishing them for it.Mr. A. O'Neill
 wished the measure to be postponed until after the select committee appointed on the motion of a noble lord (Stanley) on the law relating to the passing of Irish vagrants, had made their report. As the law now stood, an Irishman residing in Scotland for three years had a claim for a settlement; but under this bill seven years were required. There was no reciprocity in the measure, it was entirely in favour of Scotland, and against England. Now, he thought that no bill ought to be passed until some general principle that would include the entire empire was agreed upon. He would therefore move, "that the bill be committed on this day six weeks."Mr. Estcourt
 seconded the motion. The House ought to proceed on a general principle, and not with reference to any particular part of the empire. If this bill was passed, it would have the effect ten or eleven years hence, of excluding all Irish labourers from Scotland.Mr. James Grattan
1148 denied any such intention. On the contrary, he regarded the Irish as a valuable class of men, who had conferred great benefits upon Scotland. The hon. member had declared that there was no reciprocity in this matter; but he seemed to forget that England possessed that which Scotland had not, namely, a law of removal. If he were to ask the House to grant him a law of removal for Scotland, he did not think it would be refused; but still he did not ask for it, because it could not be carried into effect without a parochial rate levied upon each parish. That remedy for the evil, therefore, he did not seek, because it would create another evil, which the people of Scotland were most desirous to avoid. They only asked for a better term of settlement; and he really thought the propositions of his bill both moderate and reasonable. The committee of the noble lord merely professed to inquire into the passing of vagrants; but as Scotland had no power to pass, he conceived that no good could result from delay. He did not wish to put a stop to the passage of the Irish into Scotland, but he wished to put an end to the migratory disposition of the Irish and, by compelling them to settle in one place instead of roaming through the country, to make
1148Mr. Kennedy
 said, that if he saw anything in the bill which could be rendered injurious to his country he would oppose it. No Subject, however, could be of more importance than the constant emigration of the Irish population. If left to follow its course unopposed, it must be attended with consequences the most calamitous. He was friendly to the present bill because he thought that this country should not add to the inducements which brought the starving population of Ireland from their homes, and hold out the temptation of settlement in England or Scotland, in addition to the high wages and means of living which they at present afforded them. He thought it but just and expedient, that an Irish family should not be able to acquire a right of settlement upon the same terms and with the same ease as a family of English.Mr. S. Rice
 wished the bill to be postponed until it should be seen what bearing it had upon a measure, somewhat similar, with respect to Scotland, which was about to be proposed.Mr. Peel
 acquiesced in the proposal of the right hon. gentleman, and the further consideration of the bill was postponed to the 2nd of May; as was also the Scotch Vagrants bill.Mr. Kennedy
 said, that his hon. colleague had last session brought the subject of the Supply of Water to the western part of the Metropolis before the House, and he understood that a commission had been appointed to inquire into the subject. He wished to ask the right hon. Secretary what progress had been made in that commission. He begged also to suggest that its terms might be enlarged, and that if the commissioners found any defect in the supply they should be empowered to inquire into and suggest the remedy.Mr. Hobhouse
1149 said, that the commission was appointed by his predecessor, Mr. Sturges Bourne. The individuals composing that commission were Dr. Roget, Mr. Telford, a civil engineer, and Mr. Brande the chemist, three gentlemen of eminence in their respective professions. When he had come into office, he was applied to by the commissioners to know if he would sanction the taking of certain
1149Mr. Secretary Peel
 concurred in the opinion of the right hon. Secretary, that the business of taking levels would be better left to individual speculation. But perhaps it would be as well to add so much new matter to the instructions of the commissioners as would authorise them, if they found the present system defective, to consult upon and suggest a remedy.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the commission already possessed that power, and the right hon. gentleman then moved for a copy of the commission and correspondence, the production of which was agreed to.Mr. Peel
1150pro forma rose in conformity with the notice which he had given. It would, he said, better answer the object which he had in view not to enter into any discussion on the present occasion. If the House would allow him, he would bring in the bill, for the purpose of having it read a first and second time, and committed 1150pro formaMr. Estcourt
 said, he had been a member of the committee above stairs upon the bill, and thought the House and the country were much indebted to the hon. gentleman for his exertions.Mr. Hobhouse
 wished to set himself right with the House. What he had said was, that he believed there were a great number of the Dissenters opposed to the Catholic claims, and that they would continue so if the present bill was conceded to them. So far from thinking that this bill would be a stepping-stone to the Catholic question, he thought, on the contrary, that it would damnify it, and on that ground his opposition had been formed.Mr. Huskisson
 opposed the bill, because he thought if this concession were granted, it would pave the way for the admission of the Catholic claims. His right hon. friend near him had come to the same conclusion upon somewhat different grounds. He (sir John) would not make a stepping-stone for Catholic emancipation; and if this bill were passed, the Catholics would be sure to complain that they were the only persons excluded on account of conscience. He had always opposed their applications because he thought them dangerous; and so did his constituents.Sir J. Shelley
 But not according to the improved value of the land.Mr. Secretary Peel.
1155 said, he agreed entirely with his right hon. friend in the view he had taken of this bill. The object of the measure was a perpetual, irrevocable alienation of the inheritance for a money-rent, to be regulated by the price of corn. He admitted that there was some ground for the topic so generally urged, that the agriculturist would not improve his land, because he could only make an agreement with the existing incumbent for his life; but he thought the period of twenty-one years would be satisfactory to the tenant, and that was the principle of the Irish act, of which he entirely approved. By that measure, there was an alienation of the tithes for twenty-one years for a money-rent. But this bill introduced a new principle, going beyond the Irish act. Another very important question related to the difficulties which would attend these commutations. Taken as accurately as they might be, how could they be definitively ascertained? Who could, in every instance, decide exactly what the church was entitled to? There might be some
1155The Attorney-general
1156 could not help thinking that the right hon. Secretary's opinion had been somewhat biassed by the sentiments of his constituents; but he must submit to the House, that the members of the two Universities knew less about parochial tithes than any other persons in the kingdom. Living in their respective colleges, they knew nothing about the bargains which were made with farmers, and the painful situations in which clergymen and their parishioners were placed in consequence of those bargains. Nothing would be more likely to induce clergymen to reside upon their livings than the removal of the present system; nothing more likely to increase the number of non-residents than the continuance of it. This bill merely went to reduce to a system the powers which the House had so given by other bills. A considerable number of Commutation bills had been passed; but they were so mixed up with Inclosure bills, that fee had not been able to ascertain their
1156Mr. Greene
 denied that the exaction of tithes had been any bar to the cultivation of waste lands in England, for no such lands could be enclosed without acts of parliament; and in all the acts passed of late years, the tithe had been commuted. He hoped that the temporary course would be acquiesced in, as the measure was likely to be highly beneficial to the country, and would fall to the ground if the original plan was inflexibly adhered to.Colonel Wood
1159 said, it never was the feeling of that House to propose any bill that would have for its object any advantage over the church; but it was a principle felt throughout the country that some arrangement should be made to prevent, if possible, the perpetual wranglings between the clergy and their parishioners. The right hon. gentleman did not recommend
1159Mr. Baring
 wished to make a few observations. The hon. member for Newcastle had expressed his apprehension, that if the bill was passed as it stood, the provisions of it would seldom be carried into execution. That was precisely what he (Mr. Peel) wished to avoid. He wished to have a bill that should frequently be acted on, because it was founded on the principles of justice. The hon. member for Callington had said, that the House ought not to allow themselves to be dictated to by a University. Now, nothing had fallen from him which rendered such an observation necessary. It was his duty to state to the House any opinion which might be entertained by his constituents. The hon. member would no doubt act in the same way by his constituents; and he really did not know what there was in the University of Oxford to disentitle it to be heard in that House by its representative. On the contrary, if any body was entitled to be heard with favour it was the clergy, when the subject under consideration related to the interests of the church.Mr. Secretary Peel
1157 did not think it fair in his hon. friend, to infer that the mind of the right hon. Secretary had been warped by the sentiments of his constituents. He was quite sure that his own was not. Nor could he admit that the University of Oxford was incompetent to decide upon a
1157Mr. Estcourt
l.1153l.l.1152ll. said, he had given notice, that before this bill went into a committee, he should move that it be an instruction to the committee, that they should have the power to limit the duration of any bargain or agreement entered into under the provisions of this measure to twenty-one years. He objected to this bill as it stood at present, because it appeared to him to be pregnant with injustice to the church of England. As it was now constituted, it enabled parties to enter into agreements to determine, for ever, the future stipend to be paid to ministers of the church of England. If this principle were acted on, it would be fraught with manifest injustice; for he could see no reason, why a calculation of the receipts of any given living for the last seven or fourteen years should be laid down as the allotted stipend of a minister of the church of England for all future time. Suppose such a system had been adopted two hundred years ago, what would have been its effect on the church of England? In what situation would that church have now been placed, if, two hundred years ago, provision had been made for fixing, on the ratio of the past receipts, the future stipends of the ministers of the church of England? Surely it would have created manifest injustice in many individual instances; and it would evidently have lowered the condition of its ministers as compared with other classes of the community. He might be told that the provisions of this bill would not be generally found unjust, because in several parishes, where perhaps cultivation might retrograde, the value of the produce would, at a future period, be less than it was at present, and that therefore the gains of the clergy in these parishes might be viewed as a set-off against the losses which they might sustain in other parishes where cultivation had been extended. Now, he did not wish any portion of the clergy to gain in this way, because he did not think it would be satisfactory to any party. He would suppose the commutation of a certain parish fixed at 500l.1153l.l.1152ll.Mr. Secretary Peel
 stigmatised the present system of taking tithes, as one of the most oppressive that could be devised. After stating some instances which had come to his knowledge of the vexatious methods by which lay proprietors had, at various times, attempted to alter the modus upon hay, and other articles of produce, the hon. member proceeded to observe, that length of possession, which, in all other cases, tended to strengthen a right, had a directly opposite effect in any contest with the church; for although the contract under which a person paid his tithes might be of even two centuries' duration, the person who defended his right upon the strength of its terms was bound to the production of the deed. This, too, had another bad effect; for if any ancestor of any landholder had been guilty of any act of generosity, and had raised the amount of an incumbent's tithes without wishing it to continue beyond his life, the church immediately turned round upon him, and exacted that sum as a positive and direct modus. Great and numerous as were the evils in our legal system, in his opinion, the evils of the system of taking tithes exceeded them all; and he hoped that the proposition of the right hon. Secretary, which went to smother the principle of the bill, would not receive the sanction of the House.Mr. E. Davenport
 Certainly not: and he contended that the tithe-owner had no right to any share of his capital. If the instruction was carried, he trusted the hon. gentleman would withdraw the bill; for so limited, he feared it would do a great deal of mischief.Mr. Benett.
1154 said, that this bill was founded on the same principle as the inclosure bills, by which corn-rents were reserved to the clergy; the amount of which were not fixed beyond seven years, and generally not for so long a period, and which changed with the value of corn. Bills of this kind had been passed in numberless instances, with the consent of all parties, including the bishops. The cultivation of waste lands could not be attempted in this country, without giving one third of the money expended to the tithe-owner. This was not the case if the same money was applied to burning bricks; and thus an inducement was held out to build houses and factories in preference to cultivation. If the limitation proposed by the right hon. gentleman was carried, no man would venture to expend his money in cultivating waste land. Though the tithe-owner would receive nothing additional from him during the twenty-one years of the agreement, before the profit resulting from the improvement commenced, yet when it did commence at the end of that time, the tithe-owner would enter and take one third of the produce of the land. That was the ground of his objection to the Irish act, and he was sorry to hear it had been acted upon to such an extent as the right hon. gentleman had stated. The consequence would be, that an enormous property would be sacrificed, which would prevent any future attempt to cultivate the bogs and waste lands of that country. He had been personally attacked, because he had suggested that it was desirable to have the tithes of this country commuted. Now he was sure no party
1154Mr. Benett
1158 said, it had been asked by the right hon. Secretary, what would be the state of the Established Church now, if the stipends of the clergy had been fixed two centuries ago? He would answer this question by a reference to the Church of Scotland, where a settlement for the payment of a fixed stipend to the clergy had been introduced two centuries ago. There the clergy were nevertheless respected, and in the enjoyment of moderate affluence, although they had not the power which the clergy in this country exercised of imposing tithes on every acre of waste land that was brought into cultivation. The people were contented and happy; they paid cheerfully an ascertained sum, and were not brought into the unpleasant collision with the clergy which prevailed in this country. The evil of the tithe system in this country was, that tithe was not chargeable on the soil only, but on every improvement which might be made upon it. This was a tax upon capital as well as land. It operated, besides, to prevent persons from bringing waste lands into cultivation, which would give employment to the people, and supersede the necessity of concerting plans to
1158Mr. Hume
1160 approved of the instruction to the committee proposed by the right hon. gentleman. It was expedient, in his opinion, to limit the duration of any agreement; otherwise the measure would be an injustice both to the clergy and the parishioners, and, of the two, he doubted if the injustice would not be greater to the parishioners. The Tithe Commutation bill in Ireland, corresponding to the measure now before the House, had been attended with great advantage to that country, and he anticipated the same benefit from the present one. There was such difference only between the two measures as was rendered expedient by the difference in the situations of the two countries. The hon. member expressed his concurrence in the adoption of the average price of corn as the modus for regulating the tithe in this country. He could have no objection to a more comprehensive measure which might pour a healing balm on the animosities that too frequently existed between a clergyman and his parishioners. But he thought it impossible that they could adopt a permanent commutation on the
1160Mr. R. Grant
 recommended to the hon. member who introduced this bill to adopt the amendment of the right hon. gentleman. As to the machinery of the bill itself, he thought that unless it was made more advantageous to the payers, the bill would be altogether inoperative. At the same time he agreed that it would be better to have this bill with the proposed limitation than none at all.Sir M. W. Ridley
1161ex necessitate rei rose principally to guard the House from conceiving that what might be applicable to the state of Ireland on this subject was, 1161ex necessitate reiSir J. Newport
1180 said, that if the commission was merely appointed to analyze the water which was supplied to the metropolis, it was wasting its time in a very idle
1180Sir F. Burdett
 rose to ask the Secretary of State for the Home Department, what progress had been made by the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the State of the Supply of Water to the Metropolis.Sir F. Burdett
11791178 said, that, upon a former occasion, when the same question had been put to him by the hon. baronet's colleague, he had endeavoured to give a plain and intelligible answer. He had stated, that on his return to the office which he had then the honour to fill, he had found that one of his predecessors, Mr. Sturges Bourne, had appointed a commission to inquire into the supply of water to the metropolis, and that a question had arisen as to the extent of power bestowed on the individuals appointed as commissioners under it. He had been called upon to decide that question, and his answer was, that he should be governed entirely by the view which had been taken of it by the right hon. gentleman who had appointed the commission. Upon inquiry he found that it was the opinion, not only of Mr. Sturges Bourne, but also of the marquis of Lansdowne, who had succeeded to his office, that the powers which had been conferred on the commissioners were sufficiently ample for all the objects contemplated in the commission. It gave them power to examine witnesses upon oath, and to make all such inquiries as they should deem necessary, to show the present state of the supply of water to the metropolis, and to determine its quality, quantity, description, and salubrity. A question had likewise arisen, as to whether the
11791178Mr. Secretary Peel
1189118811871186 said, that he was ready thus early to offer himself to the notice of the House upon the new question submitted for their consideration. The noble lord who spoke last was right in saying that neither he nor any of his friends had either proposed or prepared any test as a substitute for those which they were anxious to revoke. On the contrary, they had asked for the total repeal of the existing law, on general principles of justice and policy, without having it in their contemplation to propose any substitute in lieu of the oath required by the Established Church. Notwithstanding what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he could not help thinking that unqualified repeal was what was meant by the great majority who had pronounced their opinions upon this subject on a former night. There had been, undoubtedly, an opinion expressed by an hon. friend of his, that it would be better to have a bill of suspension than one of repeal; but he could not bring himself to believe that many had concurred in a proposition of that nature. Before, however, he went further in his allusions to the general subject, or entered upon the specific proposition of the right hon. gentleman, he hoped the House would allow him to congratulate them upon the different condition in which this great question was now placed, from that it had occupied on any former occasion. They had no longer to inquire into the essential differences which formed the barrier between the established and dissenting churches, or whether or no Dissenters were worthy of holding places of trust and office. They had no longer to combat any of those theological distinctions or subtleties, which had been interposed in the form of striking difficulties, and most improperly, as he had always thought, where the question really was the adjustment of civil duties. They had no longer to grapple with that ancient principle, which provided, that no man was worthy to serve the state, of which he was a social member, unless he belonged to the creed of the dominating church. It was a source, he thought, of real satisfaction, that the question now came before them stripped of these incumbrances. It was put fairly and plainly in a different form by the right hon. gentleman, who had, in his amendment, proposed no assertion of the obsolete principle of inherent re-
1189118811871186Lord John Russell
119811971196119511941193pro tanto1192in limine,1191 said, that when this question was last under the consideration of the House, he had asked the noble lord, with the most perfect sincerity on his part, as well as for those who thought with him on this subject, for a short delay, to obviate, if possible, his final resistance to some general and fair arrangement. He had, in fact, merely asked the noble lord to give those who had" at first opposed him a reasonable opportunity of maturely deliberating on the course which it was most important they should pursue to attain a satisfactory adjustment, an opportunity which, even under ordinary circumstances, he could have hardly thought would have been refused. That request he had made with an earnest determination to apply his mind for the fair purpose for which he had asked it; namely, to consider what arrangement could then be made to settle this important question. He was induced to make the request, because he found that a considerable majority of the House of Commons had, upon fair and full debate, pronounced their opinion, that an alteration in the existing law was desirable. He repeated, that this delay he had asked with the sincerest disposition to apply his mind to the consideration of what way any arrangement could be effected with the general consent of those whose consent was indispensable for the success of the measure, and with the intention also of conciliating the feelings of the Dissenters themselves, and the other great party in the country who felt themselves concerned in the result. He wished, in fact, to see how far he could reconcile the sincere adherents of the Church of England, who must feel a deep interest in any change of this nature, to the change which the Dissenters were, under favourable auspices, desirous of accomplishing. The delay he had asked for this purpose had, however, been refused him; and refused, too, with a degree of injustice and indiscretion which he could hardly, under such circumstances, have expected. It was said that his motives were not honest, and that he wanted to get rid of the question by an artifice [cries of "No" and of "Hear"]. Most assuredly such motives had been imputed to him on the occasion to which he alluded, but he begged now to assure the noble lord, that whatever injustice had been personally inflicted upon him, and whatever motives had been unfairly imputed to him, it was impossible that any thing which had passed could seriously affect
119811971196119511941193pro tanto1192in limine,1191Mr. Secretary Peel
1199 said, that no reflections had been cast on the Church of England; on the contrary, every one had admitted that the conduct of the laity, clergy, and prelates, of that Church had been, on this occasion, signally liberal. He was ready to adopt the Declaration proposed, and more if it were required; but he must first be satisfied that it was necessary to the security of the Church of England. What the House had now to decide was, whether any instruction should be given to the committee to impose any such declaration as the right hon. gentleman had moved. Now, he would ask any hon. member whether the security of the Church of England was not greater at that moment than at any antecedent period since these acts had been passed? The Church had received all the safeguards it could possess, by the solemn national compacts
1199Mr. Fergusson
1201 also objected to the proposed Declaration. He was an advocate for simple repeal, unaccompanied by any conditions, and would object to adding any new oaths or declarations to those prescribed to be taken by the people of this country. They were in this instance unnecessary, and afforded no security whatever to the Church. After, however, the pledge given by the right hon. gentleman, he should be sorry to oppose his proposition; and he preferred the Declaration introduced by the right hon. gentleman, to the other, for this reason, that it was simple and more moderate. He would, however, have opposed this provision, if it had been accompanied by any penalty similar to that now incurred by the omission of the Sacramental Test; for, in that case, in
1201Lord Althorpe
121412131212 said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the real question before it. He was not disposed to enter into a discussion upon the general question of emigration: that was a subject which would require a more extended line of argument than hon. members would be inclined to listen to at so late a period of the evening. He could not agree that the question of emigration was so extremely simple, that the House would be justified in saying, "if it be right to encourage emigration, then it is unnecessary to take any care of the manner in which the parties emigrating are transported to the country of their destination.' The hon. member for Bridport had spoken of those parties as if they had no claim upon the consideration of the country in which they had been born, and in which they had devoted many years of their lives to labour, until peculiar circumstances in the condition of that country rendered their further services superfluous or inapplicable. Under such circumstances he could not consent to speak of these people—the most helpless and uninformed of the community—as of a mere commodity which was the subject of export from one locality to another. It had surprised him to hear the hon. member lay down those doctrines of political philosophy and medical science which he had brought
121412131212Mr. Secretary Huskisson
12081207 begged leave to remind the right hon. Secretary, that he had, on a former occasion, declared that, at the time when the bill was about going
12081207Lord John Russell
 said, the Declaration he had proposed was applicable to none, except those who were about to fill offices. If the Declaration was extended to Scotland, which he did not propose to do, it would have the effect of placing members of the Church of England in the situation of Dissenters.Mr. Peel
 said, that he had drawn up the Declaration, but as to the machinery of the bill he could say nothing. He entertained a confident hope that the insertion of that condition would ensure the success of the measure. He had drawn up the clause on his own view of the case, but he had not had an opportunity of consulting any professional person on it.Mr. Peel
1210ssl.1209 said, that when he first heard of this bill, he supposed that if a few comforts were added to the passengers while on board the vessels, all the objections to the present system would be obviated; but, on reading the papers laid before the House, he found that the objections did not relate solely to inconveniences of the voyage, but to the principle on which voluntary emigration was now conducted. The complaints of the colonists against this principle resolved themselves into two points; first, that the emigrants were paupers; secondly, that they were chosen from the disaffected classes. Every page of this correspondence contained allegations of this nature. Now, the reasons assigned by the colonists, why unlimited emigration ought not to be thus allowed, were the very reasons which were urged by English and Irish gentlemen before the committees of 1824, 1825, and the committee of last year, and by the Roman Catholic priests, in order to prove that emigration ought to be encouraged as much as possible. The former object to receiving paupers and persons from disaffected districts, and the
1210ssl.1209Mr. Warburton
 said, it appeared to him that this bill merely consisted of regulations which secured sufficient space for the passengers during the voyage; he could not, therefore, understand by what party, or on what ground, so useful a measure was to be opposed. As to the Irish shipowners, if they meant to do what was right, they could have no objection to do it under an act of parliament, and if they did not, then the sooner they were made to do it the better. In his opinion the bill encouraged rather than retarded emigration, and he therefore should support it.Mr. V. Stuart
 said, he had been a member of the Emigration committee, and from all that had there appeared, there was no one who could doubt that some regulations were necessary, and more particularly as the season was now approaching when emigration would take place. He therefore would give his support to the bill.Mr. S. Worthy
 said, that the only question was whether there ought to be a committee up stairs to examine further into the subject, or whether they should at once decide the question.Mr. Baring
121812171216 said, he could easily explain the difference of opinion between himself and the right hon. baronet on this subject. If the right hon. bart. thought that the colonies would gladly receive the forced population of Ireland, which some gentlemen of that country encouraged for the purpose of raising their rents, if he thought that redundant population, no matter how wretched and destitute in its condition, would be gladly received on their arrival in the colonies, he was right in opposing any regulations as to the mode of their transfer from the country. If the right hon. baronet thought that every man ejected from his small farm and miserable hut, by the system of law now in force in Ireland, was to be willingly received, the moment he reached the shores of our colonies, he might be right in opposing any measure which, in his opinion, would tend to restrict emigration; but the right hon. baronet was wrong in assuming that such would be the case. The whole of the information laid before the committee on emigration proved that the colonists had no
121812171216Mr. Wilmot Horton
1219 admitted the great zeal and perseverance of his right hon. friend on the subject of emigration, and the readiness with which, in the course of his labours in the committee, he had attended to every humane suggestion that had been made. He was sorry, however, that he had on this occasion deviated so much from the question before the House, and mixed up a theoretical question with one; which was purely practical. With the opinions of his right hon. friend on the bill, he fully concurred. The right hon. baronet, and the hon. member for Montrose, had argued the question as if their only object was to get rid of the superabundant population, no matter how, but at the cheapest possible rate. The representations on which the government had acted were, he contended, such as they could not refuse to attend to; and all these had concurred in stating, that the colonies would not receive the miserable and almost unserviceable crowds who went out in search of employment. The consequence was, that some such measure as
1219Mr. Stanley
1202 said, he had come down to the House on a former occasion as on the present, to enter on a full exposition of the great principles of Protest ant dissent, and to vindicate them from every
1202Mr. D. W. Harvey
 considered the present measure to be one designed more for the benefit of the colonies, than for the advantage either of England or Ireland. In his opinion it was calculated to impede emigration rather than to promote it. He was desirous of affording every facility to the purposes of free emigration. The inspection of the vessels was a measure to which he had no objection, but he did not think it necessary to sanction a bill imposing such restrictions as the present. At all events, it was desirable to go into a committee on the bill; as it certainly was one which should not be hastily adopted.Mr. J. Grattan
 said, he was surprised to find the professed advocate of free trade supporting a bill like that before the House. Honourable gentlemen seemed to forget that the object of emigration was, not to send out of the country the choicer portion of its inhabitants, but to provide for those who were in a state of excessive poverty, and had no means of obtaining employment. The whole of the provisions of the Passengers' acts had been calculated to do nothing but mischief, and the trade of carrying emigrants must have stopped if they had not been evaded. The stores required to be put on board were perfectly unsuited to the habits of the persons who were to use them. The Irish were made sick by the diet of beef ' and pudding; and the right hon. gentleman talked of providing biscuit on board. Who wanted biscuit? For the Scotch he would answer, that oatmeal and water was all that was necessary. The business of emigration had gone on very well without any restrictions until the year 1817, and then, because one or two cases of abuse arose, the trade was cramped with laws which, if they had not been evaded, would have put an end to it entirely. He could not see the consistency of this conduct on the part of the right hon. gentleman, the advocate of the principles of free trade. It was an odd change in the tactics of the right hon. gentleman; but it was not quite his first, and he went on wavering. He had begun well; now he was going on not quite so well; and it was difficult to say where he would land at last. For himself, he was against the bill altogether. He would have no interference whatever with the Irish who might wish to emigrate. Every arrangement by legislation would be only injurious to them. He trusted, therefore, that the House would reject the measure altogether.Mr. Hume
1220Deteriora sequor.""— Video meliora proboque, contended, that his hon. friends did not oppose this billon the ground of particular restrictions. All they asked was, that it should go to a committee up-stairs, to inquire whether any restrictions were necessary, and if any thing could prove that the House was not the best place where such inquiry should be made, it would be the tone and temper in which the Secretary for the colonies had addressed the House upon it. He gave great credit to that right hon. gentleman for his principles of free trade, and wished him joy of his steady adherence to them. The maxim of the right hon. gentleman on this occasion seemed to be,
1220Deteriora sequor.""— Video meliora proboque,Mr. P. Thompson
1200 said, that when he had voted in the majority on this bill, he had not voted for the repeal of these acts, in the expectation that any declaration, oath, or security, whatever, would be required from the Dissenters. His reason for having no such expectation was, not that he did not feel as ardent a zeal for the maintenance of the Church of England as any man—and he trusted that the great majority of those who had voted with him shared the same sentiments—but that he diet not see the danger to be provided against. He did not believe that any real security had ever resulted to the Church from the existence of these acts;
1200Mr. Wynn
 rose merely to confirm the statement of his right hon. friend. However, as he was upon his legs, he could not help expressing his surprise that the report of this commission had not been presented long ago. He thought that all that the commission had to ascertain was, whether the quality of the water now supplied to the metropolis was good, and whether its quantity was sufficient. He imagined that the labours, which they were appointed to discharge, might be discharged in so short a period that he had nearly limited in the commission the time within which they were to make their report; and he had only been prevented from so doing by a petition having been presented from Southwark, praying that the labours of the commissioners might be extended, to inquire into the supply of water on their side of the Thames. He had appointed on the commission one of the most able physicians, and one of the most eminent chymists, of the present day, in order that the public might have the benefit of the ablest opinions on the salubrity of the water; and he had added an excellent engineer to their number, in order that they might avoid the expense of employing individuals to take levels for them, and might have in their own body a gentleman who could give them the most satisfactory information upon all such matters.Mr. S. Bourne
11831182 said, that, from the unavoidable absence of his honourable friend, the member for Devonshire (sir T. D. Acland) it had fallen to his lot to undertake the task of laying before the House a proposition which, he trusted, would have the effect of uniting the suffrages of both parties on this great question, and which, while it extended the liberties of the Dissenters would amply provide for the security of the church. He regretted the absence of his hon. friend, because it had deprived the proposition of the influence which it would have received from his talents and weight of character. On the former discussion of this question, there had been so much ability displayed, and, he was happy to add, so much temper and moderation shewn by the noble lord and his supporters, as materially to add to the effect with which they pressed their considerations upon the House. They had already determined, by no equivocal majority, that the Sacramental tests now in existence ought to be abolished. He knew that there were among the members who composed that majority, very different feelings on that subject. Some considered every sort of test as improper; others thought it a desirable object to have some tests, but agreed, that Sacramental Tests were at least inefficient, while all concurred in opinion, that it was bad to continue a system which led to a revolting profanation of a most solemn rite of religion. That such were the opinions of those who formed that majority he had no doubt. He believed he might say with the same degree of confidence, that his right hon. friend, and those who supported him, would not think he was doing them an injustice when he stated, that he did not suppose they were opposed to the abolition of the Tests now in existence if others could be substituted, that would afford a proper degree of security to the church. He had little doubt that they would be thankful to him or to any one else, who should propose a step by which they might be exempted from a course that would seem to lay them open to such an imputation. These circumstances had induced him to hope, that some proposition might be made which would put an end to all objections, and render the abolition of the existing Tests in every way feasible. To those who had resisted the motion of the noble lord on a former evening, he would beg leave to say a few words, in or-
11831182Mr. Sturges Bourne
1206120512041203 likewise rose amid loud cries of "question." He observed, that he felt it would be ill taste in him to take up much of the time of the House, and he would therefore endeavour not to detain it beyond a few minutes; but when those who had known him long recollected that he had for a term of forty years been looking forward for what he now saw almost, as it were, within his grasp, and likewise within the grasp of thousands with whom he had been long and intimately connected, he trusted that they and the House would rather give him credit for not having sooner obtruded himself on their notice, than for an unfair wish to utter a few words, which, he was happy to say, would be very much in unison with what had fallen that evening from the hon. members who had preceded him. In the first place, he was willing to treat with the respect due to them honest and ancient prejudices; and he would also say, when he saw those prejudices wearing away day after day,—whether in consequence of the march of intellect or from what other cause—he thought that what still remained of those ancient prejudices did not require much to be sacrificed to them, and he could not but
1206120512041203Mr. William Smith
1211 perfectly agreed with the hon. member for Waterford, who in a few words, had placed the subject in the right point of view. If the hon. member opposite would carefully examine the information which had been received from the different governors—information which put speculation at defiance—he would find that a case had been made out so strong as to warrant the House in restoring the provisions of a bill which had unfortunately been repealed a year or two ago. He could not understand why the hon. member, in arguing against the provisions of this bill, should have gone into the great question of emancipation. The bill certainly had a bearing on that question; but the hon. member had argued as if it
1211Mr. Robinson
 said, that if he felt any wish unsatisfied with respect to this question, it was because any declaration was called for. If the proposition of his noble friend had been acceded to in its original form, he should have considered it the greatest possible triumph of liberal principles and opinions. But, when he was told by high authority, that in pursuing the course recommended by the right hon. Secretary, they might indulge in the hope of final success, he was ready to unite his recommendation with that of others to the noble lord, in order to induce him to agree to the proposition which had been made.Sir M. W. Ridley
l.1215 said, he considered the present bill as an innovation on the freedom of trade. For fifty years the system of emigration had been going on without any legislative interference; and no evils had arisen from the want of such regulations as the present. He thought it was unfair
l.1215Sir J. Newport
 said, he had had frequent opportunities of conversing with governors and admirals stationed in the colonies, who all concurred in bearing testimony to the sufferings of the miserable emigrants whose necessities had driven them to seek shelter in a foreign country.Sir J. Beresford
1184, in seconding the motion, said, he could assure the noble lord, that though he had formed one of the minority
1184Lord Eastnor
 said, he was one of a large majority who had voted the other evening for the unconditional repeal of these Tests; but if the measure could not be carried without some condition, he would assent to the proposition of the right hon. gentleman rather than endanger the final success of the bill.Lord Sandon
 condemned, as highly inconvenient, the custom of discussing questions of great importance on the presentation of a petition. He defended the existing measure as being a great improvement on that which had preceded it. If persons were aggrieved by assessments under the act, a remedy was provided for them, since they had the power to appeal. When he found that those who complained, chose rather to put their petition into the hands of the hon. gentleman than to seek for relief from the proper tribunal, he was inclined to doubt the correctness of their representation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the prayer of the petition. The cases of complaint under this act were not imaginary, as the hon. baronet had supposed. No church could be built in this country without the consent of parliament; but in Ireland the question was settled by a select vestry, consisting exclusively of members of the Established: Church, and they were generally parties interested in the disposal of the rate to be levied on the Dissenters and Catholics. The worst enemies of the Established Church were those who wished to prolong these abuses, by which the feelings of the people were excited against it.Mr. Spriny Rice
1230 seconded the motion, on public and private grounds. His private reasons, if the House would allow him to state them, were, that he had had some hundreds of Coventry men in his regiment; and when he parted from them, he promised, that if ever it was in his power to do them a good turn, he would recollect them. This was the first opportunity he had had to fulfil his promise, and he therefore seconded the hon. member's motion. The bill itself he considered, indeed, in a public view, to be calculated to do much injury to the trade in fancy ribbons, without producing any great advantage. He considered a measure prohibitory of the use of ribbons at elections as one partaking too much of minutiae for legislation. If there were any part of the law relating to Elections which he was desirous to see repealed, the Treating-bill was one that called for repeal far more than any enactment respecting the use of ribbons. The most wasteful extravagance was incurred by out-voters going from London and other places to Yorkshire and other remote places, at the expense of the candidates. Many persons took advantage of this opportunity of paying a visit to their friends once in seven years. This was very severe upon candidates, who
1230Colonel Wood
l. said, he would decline to follow the hon. mover over the various irrelevant topics which he had somewhat strangely introduced into a discussion upon moving for leave to bring in a bill to repeal an act of last session, prohibiting the use of ribbons at elections. He would meet the motion of the hon. member at once, by announcing his intention to vote against it. It was the duty of the House to cheapen the expenses at elections. This was the only effectual mode of restraining bribery at elections, and of making them free. The most extravagant expense was incurred frequently at elections by the use of ribbons. At the last election for the county of Northumberland, the expense laid out on ribbons was 6,000l.Mr. S. Rice
 opposed the motion. He had some experience of contested elections, and he could give his testimony, that the act of last session was expedient to check the extravagance which prevailed in the wasteful distribution of ribbons at elections.Lord Lowther
 said, that he still held the sentiments which he had so lately expressed to the House on this subject; but he would not now repeat them, but reserve himself for a future stage of the bill.The Attorney-general
 said, he would not oppose the principle of the bill, but he could not consent to so wide an extension of that principle as the hon. member proposed.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, they had so many election bills at present before the House, that he thought it would be impossible to do justice to them all. Besides, he thought the bill now proposed would be perfectly ineffective. He considered it to be one of the many attempts at petty legislation respecting the right of voting, which the House was almost daily in the habit of witnessing. He should oppose the introduction of the bill.Lord Lowther
 urged the necessity of an amendment of this act; otherwise he feared the abuses already committed would be aggravated, and spread throughout all the parishes in Ireland.Mr. A. Dawson
1235 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill "to regulate the Admission of Freemen in Cities and Boroughs." The objects he had in view were, to diminish the expenses candidates were put to at elections, by being made to pay for the admission of freemen, and for bringing them down from town to the election. There were many towns which had a far greater number of non-resident freemen than resident freemen. Dover had one thousand two hundred resident, and one thousand eight hundred non-resident freemen; Lancaster had only five hundred residents and three thousand non-residents. For all these non-residents the candidate was obliged to pay the expense of coming from London to the city or borough to which they belonged, and not only that, but often the expense of taking up their freedom. It thus happened, that, in years of contested elections, from five hundred to one thousand two hundred freemen were admitted, whilst in other years there would not be more than a dozen. He proposed, therefore, that all persons entitled to take up their freedom should be bound to do so twelve months from the time of their becoming entitled
1235Mr. Ross
1233 said:—I rise to second the motion. From the most mature investigation of this question, involving the rights and privileges of so many, and feeling as I do for them, as affecting all, I may perhaps be more particular in my application to those whom I have the honour to represent—comprising the populous city of Lincoln, of upwards of ten thousand inhabitants, and the villages annexed thereto, of full twenty miles in circumference, and containing in the total near four hundred and sixty freeholds. These individuals ask and seek no new privileges, no novel rights, but the restoration of those rights which they once exercised in common with others, and of which heavy impositions and exactions of former times have deprived them. The learned Attorney-general said, on a former night, that the freeholders of the city and borough alluded to had made a bargain with the
1233Colonel Sibthorp
1236 opposed the bill, as not only inadequate to the object proposed, but as greatly aggravating the evil it was designed to remedy. He was far from believing that all admissions were at the expense of the candidate; at least his own experience falsified the statement. But if it were so, the proposed bill would increase the expenses of an election; for as every man who claimed the right of admission would be anxious to possess it, he would go to the place in which it originated at an expense, the reimbursement of which he would expect whenever a contest arose, and thus throw on the candidates the charges of two journeys when one would suffice. But he was chiefly opposed to every measure of this sort because it began at the wrong end. If it were really an object to prevent the payment of admissions by candidates, why did not the hon. mover propose a bill by which the candidate should be compelled to swear that he had not by himself, nor his agents, paid or promised to pay, and that he would not hereafter by himself, or his agents, directly or indirectly, pay for the admissions; and, further, fix a high penalty on the detection of the offence, of which the mere receiving the money should be evidence? This would be an intelligible remedy. But it was quite the fashion of
1236Mr. D. W. Harvey
12321231 rose pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill "to declare the Rights of Freeholders in separate districts or counties, to vote at the election of Knights of the Shire of the counties from which they shall have been separated." The hon. gentleman, after adverting to the conduct of some
12321231Mr. Sykes
 doubted whether the bill would effect the objects of the hon. member; namely, the correction of the abuse of the creation of freemen during the poll or immediately before it, and the expense of bringing up voters. It might injuriously affect the rights of persons at present out of the country. He had himself, last session, introduced a bill on the subject; but he would rather see the matter in the hands of the hon. member than his own, and he would give him every assistance in his power in framing the provisions of the bill.Lord Nugent
1234 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "to render Lessors liable for county and parish assessments in all future lettings of land in Ireland." The hon. member observed, that complaints had been made from all parts of Ireland of the hardship of making the occupiers of land liable for permanent assessments. They were not only called upon to pay for roads and bridges, in which it might be said they were inter-
1234Mr. James Grattan
l.,l. denied that any stock-stories had been brought forward, or that the Catholic Association had been guilty of quackery. The former collection and disposition of the rates were most discreditable to all parties concerned, and it was highly important that the legislature should interfere to remedy the evil. The great objection was against the unwarrantable charges under the heads of "Sundries and Contingencies," in some parishes amounting to 20l.,l.Mr. J. Grattan
1224 in presenting a petition from the Catholics of Ireland against this act, observed, that it had affixed to it the names of peers, merchants, and the leading private Catholic gentlemen of Ireland; and although it had no more than five thousand signatures, he had no doubt that it contained the sentiments of the whole Catholic population of that country upon this subject. He complained of the injustice of the Vestry acts, and recommended the House to take advantage of the example held out to them by the Hungarians, to whom the petition referred. The prayer of the petition was to beg the attention of that House to this—that where those of the Catholic persuasion formed seven eighths of the whole population, as regarded the church, and ninety-nine in a hundred of the actual population in many parts of the country, they were justified in entreating the legislature to re-consider the laws which authorized such oppressions and exactions as those enforced against them; they expressed their hope that the House would relieve them from the heavy charges to which they were obliged, by the existing laws, to submit; and they recommended to the con-
1224Mr. Hume,
12291228 presented two petitions for the repeal of the act of last session, to prevent the use of Ribbons at Elections. One of them was signed by 5,000 silk-weavers, inhabitants of Coventry; and the other by between 1,700 and 1,800 silk-weavers of Spitalfields. He concurred with the petitioners that their apprehension was well founded, that this act would do great mischief to the silk trade. The hon. gentleman then rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a Bill "to repeal so much of the act of last session as prohibited the use of ribbons at Elections." It would be in the recollection of the House, that this bill was introduced by the noble member for Northamptonshire. In its original shape, the bill merely went to deprive the counsel, agents, and attorneys, employed by the candidates, from voting at the election; but, from the use of the word "flagger," he concluded that it never could have been the intention of the noble lord to interfere with the silk trade. He was the more disposed to think that the House could have no objection to review its decision, when he recollected that the bill was brought in at a late period of the session, when many gentlemen had left town; and that it was finally passed through the House at two o'clock in the morning, when there were only thirty-six members present. The hon. member "then proceeded to take a review of the laws passed against extravagant expense on
12291228Mr. Fyler
 replied. The opposition which had been offered to his motion was, he said, to be traced to one principle— self—nothing but self. He hoped he should have a majority in favour of the bill, and that the House would not, under the influence of such considerations, toss the poor weavers of Coventry overboard.Mr. Fyler
 would not object to the introduction of the bill, but he would not stand pledged to go the whole way with the hon. member, in a measure which would make so great an alteration in the relations between landlord and tenant in Ireland.Mr. W. Lamb
d.1226l. admitted that there had been irregularities and infractions of the law under the old system, but contended that they were not enough, either in kind or degree, to warrant an enactment which would have been attended with greater evils than those it proposed to remedy. He complained that on occasions like the present, the right hon. baronet, and others who thought with him, brought forward a certain number of stock-stories, ready cut and dried, for the purpose of making out their case, and that the Catholic Association had done its utmost by its quackery to aggravate and inflame a wound at first of little importance. He then read a passage from a letter from Mr. O'Connell, and an extract from one of his speeches, in the latter of which that gentleman insisted that "the grievance of church rates was a grievance exceeded by no other that was felt in Ireland." The hon. baronet went on to examine, in some detail, the extent of this grievance, and adverted to several distinct cases, as made out by the petitions and returns upon the table. The first was that of Drogheda, which he argued was inapplicable; and the next was that of Thurles, where 32d.1226l.Sir R. Inglis
 defended the necessity of the present measure. More than half the amount of grand-jury assessments in Ireland were not for objects in which the occupying tenant could be said to have a direct interest. It was a hardship on a tenant to be called upon, perhaps in the last year of his lease, to pay a share of a tax for a public building in which he was in no way interested.Sir J. Newport
l.l.1225 said, he was convinced that the bill afforded the Catholics no protection, and gave, as a proof of the correctness of his opinion, an instance in which, on a rate having been imposed by a Protestant bishop on the Catholic inhabitants of a parish for the supply of some articles to a church, the Catholics appealed to the Quarter Sessions, and the magistrates decided, that the act gave them no power to interfere with a rate so imposed. In some parts of Ireland, the Catholics were actually in such poverty, that they could not afford to repair their own chapels, and worshipped God almost in the open air. In one parish in the north, the Catholic chapel had been four times burnt down within twenty, years; the last time only five years ago; and while the Catholics were unable at present to rebuild that chapel, they were heavily taxed for the erection of a Protestant church. The injustice of the present state of the law was therefore manifest. The Chancellor of the Exchequer had objected to this discussion, because it put a stop to what he considered more important business. Now, he knew of no business that could be more important than listen-
l.l.1225Sir John Newport
126712661265126412631262126112601259a general1258, the town-clerk, had endea-
126712661265126412631262126112601259a general1258Mr. Brown
1275ll127412731272l1271 thought the evidence so full and complete, that what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had spoken last but one had been matter of astonishment to him. His remarks could only have been made under the influence of the most inveterate prejudice or error. The evidence upon which the bill was supported seemed to be as perfect as the House could possibly desire. Nothing could be more consistent than the statement of the gentleman and his clerk; and he had never in the whole course of his life seen any paper drawn up with more nicety, or greater mercantile precision, than the list which was before the House with the names of the voters who had received money for their services. It was a Complete balance-sheet, stating with the greatest precision, the sums received and paid, and to whom those payments were made. He ought, indeed, almost to
1275ll127412731272l1271Mr. Alderman Waithman
ardentia verba127812771276 thought that the question now before the House; namely, the disfranchisement of the borough of East Retford, involved considerations of a general nature, nearly similar to those which were connected with the other question of the disfranchisement of Penryn. The first question was that of the measure of justice to be dealt out to the borough; the second involved the consideration of the policy and expediency of disposing of the vacant franchise either to the hundred, or to some populous town. For even supposing the delinquency of the borough to be partly made out, and that enough was proved to justify the forfeiture of the franchise, the question to be considered was, not to what place it might be just, but to what place it might be also politic and expedient, to transfer that right. He proposed to consider, first, the justice of the proceeding itself, and next, whether or not there had been a sufficiency of evidence to warrant any interference with the elective right of the borough which had been accused. And first, with respect to the question of justice. In approaching that part of the subject, he wished to draw a
ardentia verba127812771276Mr. Secretary Peel
I said no such thing.Mr. Alderman Waithman:—
1283128212811280fœce Romulirepublica Platonis1279 said, that the hon. gentleman had referred to a quotation which, if he had fully brought forward and strictly applied, would establish that doctrine. If taxation without representation was absolute tyranny, and if tyranny justified resistance, would not all those be justified in resistance who were under the age of twenty-one? Again, to cite an illustration adduced on a former occasion by a right hon. Secretary of State, now no more, in reply to this argument, what would become of the whole female sex, or of the large body of freeholders not qualified as 40s. freeholders to vote at elections in this country? In short, if such a doctrine were to be enforced, it would lead to the widest plan of universal
1283128212811280fœce Romulirepublica Platonis1279Mr. Secretary Peel
l rose to move the instruction to the committee of which he had given notice; preparatory to which, however, he begged leave to say a few words. It had been admitted by the right hon. Secretary that it was desirable that the elective franchise of one of the boroughs to be disfranchised should be given to the agricultural interest. He should, therefore, propose, that the right of voting in the borough of East Retford should be extended to the hundred of Bassetlaw. In that hundred there was a population of two thousand freeholders, possessing a rental of 191,000lMr. N. Calvert
1295 was altogether op-
1295General Gascoync
12971296 said, he was perfectly ready to agree with those who
12971296Mr. Secretary Hushisson
The fourth part of a representative.A Member.—
1298That might be said of any town or county, that it had but the fraction of a member. Nevertheless, he would repeat his assertion, that Glasgow had a representative in that House. If they departed from the principle to which he had before adverted, they would be establishing a precedent, which might carry them lengths far beyond what they first contemplated, and far beyond what they might, receive external support in carrying into effect; whereas, if they adhered to it, they might improve the
1298Mr. Huskisson.—
1299 said, he thought that some of the reasoning of hon. gentlemen on the other side told quite differently from what they intended it should do. The two right hon. Secretaries opposite, so far from supporting each other, were opposed; the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies having actually given a conclusive reply to
1299Lord John Russell
 agreed that, generally, that House ought in its proceedings to look merely to its own judgment, without being swayed by what might be conjectured to be the views of the other House of Parliament. It was their duty to decide for themselves; and yet, when they considered what had before happened in several cases of this description, they might, even on the principle of being governed only by their own judgment, look to the circumstances which were most likely to promote or retard the effect of their own measures. He regretted that the authority of his right hon. friend opposite should have been applied in a manner so calculated to lead the House to an erroneous decision, and so inconsistent with the sentiments expressed by him on a former occasion. Then he was a decided advocate for conferring the forfeited rights upon the landed interests; now he was the warm supporter of what was called the popular side; then, he thought the manufacturing body sufficiently represented; now he was for giving them additional strength.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, that if they had been at present considering the case of Penryn, he believed there would be little difference of opinion. He had no objection to the transference of the elective franchise to large towns; but he did think that it was proper to consider what was likely to be the result of the measure which they had before them. He himself would have had no objection to transfer the franchise to some great town, instead of throwing it open to the hundred; but he must look at the probable effects which their proceedings were likely to produce in another place.Mr. W. Horton
payment1257lllwho had not promised,ll1256lll125512541253 stated, that he rose to move that this bill be re-committed. He understood his hon. friend's purpose was, to move an Instruction to the Committee; if so, it was clear that such motion would be irregular until the House had resolved to go into a committee, and after the demonstration made by his hon. friend it might be expedient for him (Mr. T.) to explain the course which, in his judgment, ought to be followed in the further discussion of this bill. That discussion would naturally divide itself into three distinct parts. The first question was, "whether sufficient evidence of the Corruption of the Borough of East Retford had been produced, to justify the interference of parliament?" This question he conceived would be decided in the affirmative by the House resolving to go into a committee on the bill, and should be so decided before his hon. friend's proposition could be entertained. This was his apology for interrupting his hon. friend. The second question was, "What should be the measure of that interference?" This would have to be determined in the committee, subject to any instruction which it might receive from the House, and he understood the object of that to be moved by his hon. friend was, to limit the measure of such interference. This imposed upon him (Mr. T.) the duty of stating more distinctly than he should otherwise have deemed necessary, the position to which the borough of East Retford was reduced by the evidence before the House, in order to shew that no measure of interference short of utter disfranchisement could meet the justice of this case. He should however abstain from offering, at present, any observations on the third point for discussion; namely, "the ulterior disposition of the franchise in case East Retford should be deprived of it,"—as he was anxious to observe that delicacy which the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Secretary Peel) had recommended on this subject before it was decided, that the borough should in fact be disfranchised, but he trusted that the House would allow him the earliest opportunity for stating his views respecting it, when the proper period should arrive. If, after the ample
payment1257lllwho had not promised,ll1256lll125512541253Mr. Tennyson
1269l1268 said, he considered; the evidence not sufficient to justify the House in taking steps so strong or severe as those to which the hon. gentleman had directed their attention. He did not deny that there was some matter that deserved the consideration of the House; but the proof of corruption had been brought home to so few electors, that he could not consent either to the proposition of the hon. gentleman, or the mitigated proposition which the House was led to expect from the hon. gentleman (Mr. N. Calvert) behind him. On a former night he had called for further evidence; but finding the temper of the House against him, he had yielded to it. Though he had no right to assume the character of advocate for the borough of East Retford, he was desirous that it should receive no injury at his hands. He felt himself in the condition of a judge, who, by the rules of our criminal courts, was bound to act as counsel for the accused, when he had no other defender. He disagreed wholly with the hon. gentleman, in his view of the two cases of Shoreham and Grampound. In both those cases, the inquiries which had ended in the disfranchisement of the boroughs originated with petitions against the returns at the last election. On opposing the disfranchisement of Shoreham, Mr. Fox made the first display of his eloquence in that House; and in twenty-two years afterwards, in 1793, that great man, in opposing the proceedings against Stockbridge, referred to his exertions in the case of Shoreham, and re-stated the same objections in principle. Mr. Fox styled it a bill of pains and penalties, and said, that except on the clearest evidence, he would not deprive any borough of its rights and privileges. In the case of Grampound it was equally certain, that the bill for disfranchising that borough had originated in the proceedings of the
1269l1268Mr. George Bankes
 thought that there could be as fair a representation from the hundred, as from any other place. He was of opinion that the landed interest was not at all too powerful, and was satisfied that the commercial interest was fully represented in that House.Mr. Benett
 said, he did not wish to obtrude himself on the House at that late hour, particularly after the very able and eloquent speech of the right hon. and learned member for Knaresborough. The question, however, was of such importance that he could not reconcile it to himself to give a silent vote upon it. In the three former cases in which the House had interfered, the right of election was only extended, and not absolutely transferred; the reason of which was, that in all of them a portion of the voters were found not to be corrupt. Here, however, the right hon. Secretary had admitted, that bribery had been proved to be tolerably general, but he differed upon that point, as it was rather proved to have been intolerably general; for he never had seen a case in which the practice was proved to have been more universal. With respect to what might be done in another place, he thought they had nothing to do. It was for the House of Commons to adopt that course which they deemed proper, and to leave it to the other House to do as they pleased. There were, he perceived, three modes of obtaining freedom in this borough—by birth, by service, and by redemption. Now, by this latter means, a person possessing great power and influence might create so many votes as to overwhelm his antagonist. Another reason, too, why he wished to transfer the franchise to large populous towns was this, that in large towns which were represented, there was always an action and re-action of public feeling; while in large unrepresented towns the popular feeling was generally on one side, and opposed to those who, they conceived, deprived them of their privileges. Upon these different grounds he would support the original motion.Mr. Wynn
 in explanation, said, that in supporting the proposition for conferring rights upon the adjoining hundred, he had never denied that a case might not arise where a different course could advantageously be adopted.Mr. Wynn,
1294129312921291129012891288Desperat tractata nitescere posse relinquit.""—quæ128712861285 then addressed the House to the following effect;—Sir, I
1294129312921291129012891288Desperat tractata nitescere posse relinquit.""—quæ128712861285Sir J. Mackintosh
1284 said, it was, no doubt, desirable that the House should be in possession of the opinions of the right hon. Secretary as to the course which it was his intention to recommend for their adoption; but he thought the better course, and the one most consistent with the usages of parliament, was, to consider each case on its respective merits. With respect to the corruption of the borough of East Retford, and the expediency of disfranchising that borough, those points had been established on evidence so incontrovertible, that it was unnecessary for him to say a single word upon the subject. As to the other point
1284Sir J. Mackintosh
 contended, that the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department must admit, that, although all the strict rules of evidence observed on a penal proceeding were not applicable to the present proceeding, yet that it was still in some degree a punishment. In the question, whether the elective franchise hitherto enjoyed by East Retford, be or be not transferred to the adjoining hundred, he confessed he had a personal interest; for if the former of these courses were adopted, it would confer upon him a vote. Now he humbly conceived that that would be giving him more than he could justly lay any claim to. What right had he to vote for four members. He certainly had no desire to do so. He would rather see the privilege, in both instances, conferred upon such towns as Birmingham and Manchester. He earnestly called the attention of the House to the importance of the principle which the present discussion involved, and the expediency of guarding chiefly the interest and feelings of the people.Lord Althorp
1270 said, that he looked upon this bill as a penal one, and his principle was not to consent to capital punishment, unless for the purpose of getting rid altogether of a crime. But would such be the case in this instance? He, for one, would say, that, under the present constitution of the House of Commons, bribery in borough elections was neither disgraceful nor blameable. Every body must see that, on the principle on which boroughs were now carried on, the self-interest of the electors was the point always consulted; and while such was the fact, it mattered not; whether their vote was paid for in money, or in situations under government, or in East-India patronage, or in letting out lands to them at a price below their value. In fact, there was scarcely a mem-
1270Lord. Howick
13041303 said, he hoped the hon. member would excuse him if he
13041303Mr. Secretary Peel
13061305 said, he rose for the purpose of requiring some information with respect to the object of a motion which was made by the hon. member for Dorsetshire, between twelve and one o'clock on Saturday morning. The hon. member on that occasion moved for a select committee to inquire into the state of the Public Buildings in the Department of the Office of Works, and into the application of part of the land revenue of the Crown, under certain statutes. He certainly expected, that the hon. member would have stated the reason which led him to institute such an inquiry. His surprise was therefore very great, when the hon. member made his motion, without assigning a single reason for it, or pointing out the precise object which he had in view. He hesitated at the moment, as to whether it was his duty to ask for an explanation; but believing that nothing unsatisfactory would result from the committee, he did not deem it necessary to say any thing in opposition to the motion. But a little reflection had convinced him that it was necessary to come to a right understanding of the motives which had induced the hon. member to move for a committee. He certainly was of opinion, that this subject would naturally come under the inquiry of the Finance Committee, Promises had been made of a reduction of expense in this department; but although those promises had not been kept, yet he believed the public were content to wait for the result of an inquiry, to be instituted by the Finance Committee, with reference to this subject. In those hands he
13061305Sir James Graham
ll1307 said, that his reason for not entering into an explanation on the former occasion was, because he was not aware that any was required. As to his having made his motion at so late an hour he could not avoid it: if he had postponed his motion to Monday, it was very doubtful whether he could have brought it forward. After listening with great attention to what had fallen from the hon. baronet, he could not see what the object was for which the hon. baronet wished him to give an answer. The hon. baronet seemed to complain of his having taken a particular subject out of the hands of the Finance Committee. Was the Finance Committee to embrace every subject of inquiry before the House? Was it not competent to every member to take up any particular subject, if he thought it could in any other way be more fairly considered, than it could be before the Finance Committee? Did the hon. baronet know what a mass of business was at present before the Finance Committee. He was not aware that the subject to which his motion referred would come before that committee. He did not think that they would have time to entertain it before the next session. The hon. baronet had objected to the manner in which the committee was constituted, and there seemed to be a sort of oblique insinuation, as if he had moved for the committee, for the purpose of screening some individuals whose conduct was likely to be overhauled in the Finance Committee. Now, what purpose had he to answer—what advantage was he likely to receive in moving for this committee? What benefit would it be to him to screen persons who were guilty? The hon. baronet asked what was the object of the committee? There were two principal views connected with the formation of the committee—one related to the public expenditure, and the other to national taste. Both were fit objects for the consideration of parliament. If they saw a large ex-
ll1307Mr. Bankes
 said, that as allusion had been made to him, it became necessary for him to state that he had nothing to do with the formation of this committee; but he would, as head of the Woods and Forests Department, do every thing in his power to give effect to the inquiry. He had no desire to screen himself from any investigation. He had only to ask the committee fairly to do its duty. He should not have been placed in his present office if there had been any thing in his conduct that would not bear the strictest scrutiny. If it were allowable for a man to speak of himself, he would say that twenty-one years ago, he had obtained, not through great connexions, nor by ministerial influence, an income under an act of parliament, fully equal to that which he now possessed. He might also be permitted to observe, that on the present occasion he had not sought for office.Mr. Arbuthnot
1309 said, he wished to take that opportunity of putting a question or two to the first commissioner of Woods and Forests. First, he wished to know whether it was intended to cut down the north row of trees in the Mall in St. James's park? It would be in the recollection of the House, that in answer to a question put last session, it was affirmed, that government would keep to the inten-
1309The Hon. G. A. Ellis
 denied any responsibility on the score of the execution of the plans for the improvements in the park; for though they were sent to his office, they were proceeded on after he left it. Both from the government and Mr. Nash he had received the most positive assurances, that it was not intended to cut down the trees in the Mall. He did not think it quite fair to talk of encroachments upon the parks. When he had waited upon the king to take his commands upon the plan of improvements, his majesty expressly desired that a carriage road should be opened from Pimlico to Storey's Gate, that the whole of that part of the park where the cattle grazed should be opened to the public. Upon the subject of the foot-way through the buildings at Waterloo-place, it was not in his power to give any answer. He believed there was no such path in the original plans.Mr. Arbuthnot
1310 said, that when a question was put to him last year, he had stated distinctly that it was not the intention to cut down any of the trees, except one which projected so as to interfere with the wall. At that time, the plan shewing the new alterations was before the House; and there was no intention on the part of the Treasury to make any alteration in it. He had even taken the trouble to see the architect; for the purpose of
1310Mr. Herries
 disclaimed any intention to impute improper motives to the two right hon. gentlemen.Sir J. Graham
1311l said, that in agreeing to the vote which he was about to propose, the committee would not pledge itself to any opinion whatsoever. The House was only called upon to vote the appropriation of money which would be paid on the 5th of April and the 6th of July next. What was to be done with the money would be matter of after-consideration, but this preliminary step was necessary. With this observation he merely proposed calling on the House to vote for the appropriation of the sum of 2,164,0001311lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the committee for which he had moved would only sit on two or three days in the week, when the Finance Committee were not sitting.Mr. Bankes
1312 said,
1312The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1313 bore testimony to the constant exertions of the Finance Committee, and particularly to those of the hon.
1313Mr. Baring
1315l said, that the objection was to the tables and not to the principle of the bill itself. Any loss which might have, been sustained would not be remedied by the repeal of the act now. The only thing that could be done would be to prevent the granting of other annuities until new tables were prepared. In this view of it he concurred in the suggestion of the hon. member, that they should not at once repeal the act, but rather suspend it, in order to afford time for considering what; other tables could be got ready, which might put an end to the apparent loss; for he was not convinced that the loss was a real one. He admitted that they had good authority for saying that there was a loss; and on that ground the committee had recommended an immediate; consideration of the subject, and that other tables should be adopted. He concurred in the suggestion for suspending the act, but whether it were suspended or repealed, it would amount to the same thing; for the repeal would be on the understanding that it was to continue only till new tables could be prepared. It appeared: from Mr. Finlayson's letter that a loss had been sustained by the public, amounting to about 8,0001315lMr. Herries
l1316 said, it was clear that a considerable loss had been sustained by the public from the annuities granted under the act. Blame might not be attributable to government for what took place before they received the communication alluded to, but he understood that annuities had since then been granted on the same disadvantageous terms to the public. If that were so, blame must rest somewhere. The communication of Mr. Finlayson was a sort of debtor and creditor account. He showed the amount paid by the purchaser, the amount of stock cancelled, and the amount which
l1316Lord Althorpe
, in explanation, observed, that the letter of 1819 did not speak of the great loss to which the last letter adverted, but merely announced that the tables were unfavourable to the public. The subject was one of such extreme difficulty, that it ought not to excite surprise that no step was taken on it immediately.Mr. Herries
 said, that the suspension of the appropriation of this money would not alter the arrangement relative to the Sinking-fund; but it would deprive the government of supplies which were wanted for the purposes of immediate necessity.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
llllll said, that the hon. member had greatly under-stated the amount of surplus over expenditure, when he stated it to be only 50,000llllllMr. Herries
 said, it appeared to him, that, after the course which had been pursued with reference to this measure by the right hon. gentleman opposite, the hon. member had better give up his bill altogether. Although the hon. member for Hertfordshire had brought forward the proposition, it could not be considered in any other light than as the proposition of the right hon. gentleman opposite. Of this he was sure, that if it had not been so considered, the House would have come to a very different determination upon it. Now, he must say, that the whole statement of the right hon. gentleman, when the subject was last discussed, rested on an unjust view of the question.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that whatever might be the merit or demerit of the proposition, he took the responsibility of it upon himself.Mr. N. Culvert
1320 said, that the proposition for which he had voted had been made and seconded by two hon. members, who were
1320Mr. Peel
 admitted the great benefit which the public had derived from the system of granting government annuities; but expressed his surprise, that, after the communication which had been made to government on the subject of their disadvantageous bargain, no steps had been taken to correct the error. The public seemed to have been well informed of the advantage which the government terms gave them; for on looking at the list of annuities, it would appear, that two thirds of them were on women's lives. Now it appeared by the report of one of their committees last year, that the lives of women were, on the average, longer than those of men. It appeared to him, however, that Mr. Finlayson, in his estimate, had not taken into his calculation the interest of the money paid by the purchasers of the annuities.Mr. Baring
13221321vice versaprimâ facie said, he had abstained from taking any part in the debates which had passed upon the subject, as he was connected with most of the gentlemen and with the interests of the district concerned. At present, however, he was desirous of doing away with a 13221321vice versaprimâ facieMr. D. Gilbert
 said, he would not vote for the absolute disfranchisement of Penryn. He could not consent to punish the innocent with the guilty, and should, therefore, support the amendment.Mr. Batley
132713261325 said, that his hon. friend (Mr. G. Bankes) had completely mistaken what had fallen from him on a former evening, when he expressed his wish to postpone the declaration of his sentiments as to the transfer of the franchise of Penryn, until after the question respecting East Retford was disposed of. He then stated, that the transfer of the
132713261325Mr. Secretary Peel
1328 said, that opposed as he had generally been, on the question of reform in parliament, to many who had taken a part in the debate, he still thought that, in the present instance, a case had been made out for disfranchising this particular borough. He felt it his duty to defend his right hon. friend from the charge which had been made against him, by the hon. member for Corfe Castle, who described his right hon. friend as having waited to make up his mind upon the question, until the case of the delinquency of East Retford arose, so as to furnish himself with an argument to aggravate the offence of the former delinquency. Such an inference was unauthorized in fact, and unjust to his right hon. friend. The cases of these delinquent boroughs resembled very strikingly the cases of two persons found guilty of offences, which rendered them liable to the severest penalty the law could inflict. If, pursuant to that sentence, they were doomed to die, it was of little consequence to themselves how that sentence was executed, provided it were speedy, and un-
1328Lord F. L. Gower
 objected to the clause by which the deposit for defraying the expenses of the hustings, &c. was to be returned to the successful, but not to the unsuccessful candidates.Colonel Davies
 said, the object of the clause was to prevent vexatious contests. If such a provision were not introduced, a person possessed neither of property, nor a chance of success, might, by setting himself up as a candidate, throw the town into an uproar.Lord J. Russell
 thought the fairest provision under the circumstances would be, that no party should be considered qualified as a candidate, unless he was prepared to defray his proportion of the necessary expenses of the election; which he certainly was of opinion ought to be exacted from all the parties, successful as well as unsuccessful.Mr. Secretary Peel
 replied, that Manchester was a very populous town, and his object was, by limiting the period, to prevent those riots which frequently took place at elections.Lord J. Russell
 observed, that he and those who acted with him were anxious to preserve order at the elections, and it was possible that they might have gone further than was necessary in the pursuit of that object. He could not, however, adopt the suggestion of the right hon. gentleman, as it would be productive of delay.Lord J. Russell
 consented to withdraw the clause, as the sense of the committee appeared to be decidedly against it.Lord J. Russell
1330 said.—In rising to move that the House do now go into a committee on this important bill, I feel it necessary to say a few words. When it was last under discussion, upon the proposition of a right hon. gentleman opposite, seconded by the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department, for inserting a Declaration in it, to be taken by all Dissenters on their entry into office, I agreed to the principles on which they rested it, not because I thought it either necessary or important, but because I believed it to be likely to render the bill more satisfactory to all parties, and to prevent
1330Lord John Russell
1332 said, the only objection which I have heard urged against the course which I recommended the House, on a former evening, to follow, arises out of this clause; and I am informed that it appears to some persons, to give the king a power to dispense with this Declaration. My opinion is, that it gives no such power: at any rate, I know that I did not intend that it should. The question, as far as it refers to this point, is not without its difficulties. By the law as it now stands, any one who enters into the king's service, or receives the king's wages, or acts as his menial servant, is compelled to take the Sacramental Test. He is relieved, however, from that compulsion by the Annual Indemnity act. If that act were not to be passed, he would be under an obligation to take the Sacramental Test, however menial the office might be in which he served his majesty. If I am entitled by the Test and Corporation Acts to call upon every person who enters his majesty's service to take the Sacramental Test, I am entitled, by the proposed act to make every person who would now be compelled to take that test make the proposed Declaration. Now, in many cases, the performance of such a ceremony would not only be superfluous, but absurd. For instance, what could be more useless and absurd than to make a man, who is going to enter upon office on a foreign station, make a declaration that he will not, by virtue of that office, attempt to subvert the privileges of the Church of England? It would be difficult to specify in words all the cases in which it would be imperative that the party should make the Declaration, and equally difficult to specify the cases where an exception to that rule ought to be allowed. The object of this clause was to enable his majesty at his discretion to specify those offices in which it would be necessary to exact the proposed Declaration. The object of it was, not to dispense with the Declaration entirely, but to allow his majesty to name what officers should and what officers should not be called upon to make it. This is all that I have to say on this subject at present. I will, however, repeat, that I am satisfied with the security which this Declaration offers. I am not prepared to make any alteration in it to please the wishes of any party. All that has passed since I proposed it, confirms me in the sanguine hope that the present session will
1332Mr. Secretary Peel
—He is covered by the annual bill of indemnity.Mr. Peel.
1323 said, that, having been one of those who last year voted with a right hon. gentleman whose voice, unhappily, the House would never hear again, that the elective franchise of this borough should be thrown into the adjoining hundreds, he could not with any consistency now give a contrary vote. Instead of seeing any thing to induce him to alter, he had had his opinion confirmed by the remarkable fact, that, with respect to East Retford, where the guilt had been more universal, and the population of the adjoining hundreds less numerous, the House; had, but a few evenings ago, resolved upon the same measure of justice. Surely it was not fair to visit the smaller degree of guilt with the greater degree of severity ! With respect to the argument of the different counties in which the places were situated, he never could admit that guilt was more punishable because it was in one county than it should be in another. He professed himself as anxious as the noble lord could be to punish corruption; but he would never agree to reach it through injustice. The corruptors were worse than the corrupted; and though he refused to go with the noble lord, in punishing the many for the guilt of the few, in: the present instance, he assured him, that if he would make his attack upon the cor-
1323Mr. C. Pallmer
 wished to know why Manchester was only to be allowed three days to poll, when other places were allowed fifteen.Mr. Ross
 said, that, after the course which the House had thought proper to adopt with respect to this bill, he was rather at a loss to determine what course to pursue. As, however, the Penryn Disfranchisement bill was to come under discussion that evening, and as any ulterior proposition which he might have in view with reference to East Retford would, in a great measure, depend upon the fate of that bill, he would move, "that the Order of the Day for going into a Committee on the East Retford Disfranchisement Bill be read, for the purpose of postponing it to Monday" [cries of no, no !].Mr. Tennyson
 thought it would be advantageous to postpone that and the remaining clauses, until the other two bills were brought before the House.Mr. Sugden
1324 concurred with the hon. member for Surrey, that it did seem a little hard that Penryn should suffer for the delinquency of another borough; and it further appeared hard, that, according to the proposition which had come from the other side of the House, both boroughs were to be punished more severely than they would otherwise have been, owing to the delinquency of each. With respect to Penryn, he understood the Secretary of State for the Home Department to say, that he declined adopting a different measure of punishment, entirely in consequence of the corruption of another borough, and yet he could not reconcile it with this declaration, nor with his own notions of any principle of justice, that a change should have taken place in the determination avowed by gentleman of that House. With regard to the delinquency of Penryn, the present was not a time to speak of it, but it was a proper opportunity to consider of the measure of punishment; and he was sorry that this measure of punishment should be altered, in consequence of circumstances wholly foreign to the borough and its offence. He thought that a better derision might be come to as to their punishment, by considering separately and severally the two cases; and he, therefore, regretted to hear a proposition which did not appear to him accordant to the principles of justice; namely, that punishment was to be awarded, not in proportion to the demerit of the offending party, but to the guilt of another wholly distinct; not only was Penryn to be more severely punished in consequence of the delinquency of East
1324Mr. G. Bankes
 said, that the proposed Declaration was one of the mildest and least offensive that could have been devised: and that the right hon. Secretary merited the thanks of the country, for the manner in which he had acceded to the proposition of his noble friend. There was one point, however, which he wished to suggest. He thought that the office of privy councillor was one which subjected the holder of it to taking sacramental test.Lord Nugent
—Exactly so: a privy councillor would be compelled, unless he were covered by the act of indemnity. If that were the case, then he would be called on to make the proposed Declaration. Assuming, then, that a privy councillor was both to take the sacramental test under the old bill, and therefore liable to make the Declaration under the present bill, there might be cases, and those not extreme ones, in which a man, not nicely scrupulous, but only properly conscientious, might find the Declaration to be at variance with the oath which he had taken as a privy councillor. The oath which a privy councillor took, bound him to advise the king according to the best of his discretion, and to observe, keep, and do all that a good and true councillor ought to do to his sovereign lord. Now, cases touching the disposal of church property might arise, in which the Declaration, which bound him not to employ the influence of his office to weaken the church establishment might be in direct opposition with the oath of a privy councillor, which bound him to advise for the king's honour and the good of the public. It might be supposed in such cases by conscientious men, that the Declaration was to supersede and ride over the oath which they had taken. He did not know whether the right hon. gentleman would make any exception in this clause on behalf of privy councillors; but it did appear to him that, as the clause now stood, it might excite some uneasiness in the minds of persons of tender consciences.Lord Nugent.
 suggested, that it would be more expedient to suspend this bill, than to repeal it.Mr. Calcraft
 observed, that the Finance Committee, would not be the worse for being reminded of particular duties as it proceeded. With reference to the measure, however, which had already emanated from it—the bill for repealing the power of granting life annuities—he did not quite agree in the course which had been pursued, and wished that Mr. Finlayson's letter should be laid before the House. As it seemed to him, the table of rates, subject to which these annuities had been granted, ought to be changed, rather than the practice of granting them discontinued.Mr. Calcraft
l took occasion to allude again to the slow proceedings of the Finance Committee, and expressed a wish that there was some statement laid before the House of the actual income and expenditure of the country. An hon. baronet the other evening had stated, that he did not expect much from the Finance Committee, because, although our income was above fifty millions, more than thirty millions were absorbed by the debt, so that they had not more than nineteen or twenty millions to deal with. Now, he confessed this alarmed him very much as to the results to be expected from the examination. He looked, not to the nominal amount paid into the Treasury, but at the sum drawn from the pockets of the people. That sum was nearly fifty-eight millions, but more than eight millions were spent in the collection; so that the nett amount to be applied to the public expenditure was only fifty millions. If, therefore, the difference between the nett income and the gross income was added to the sum the committee had to work upon, there would be, instead of nineteen or twenty millions, a sum of twenty-seven millions, out of which the Finance Committee was to labour in the work of reduction. He recollected hearing, some years ago, that a proposition was made to lord Liverpool, of uniting the Boards of Customs and Excise, and it was said that by this union 1,500,000lMr. Calcraft
l said, that the money named in the vote was money to be received from the Bank in the way of loan; and he entirely objected to applying borrowed money to the support of the Sinking-fund. The statement of the right hon. Home Secretary a few nights ago had shown that at most there was only a surplus of 50,000lMr. Hume
1319 said, that Mr. Finlayson had been directed to make a calculation on fifteen thousand lives. His work was a work of figures, and he did not deserve blame for exaggeration, for he expressed no opinion one way or the other. As to the letter sent to the Treasury, he could state that great remissness must have existed somewhere on this subject; for in the same year in which Mr. Finlayson's first letter was written, a similar representation had been transmitted to government. He had no doubt that on inquiry
1319Mr. Hume
 admitted that the suggestion would have been a good one if they could be sure that the other bills would pass; but as they could not be sure of that, it would be wrong to make the present bill depend on a remote contingency.Dr. Phillimore
 said, that when they saw the encroachments which were daily making upon the park, it was high time that there should be no doubt as to the intention of government. He had seen numbers of trees railed round, and it appeared to him to be intended to cut them down. He thought these were fair objects for the investigation of a committee. The Treasury board had very little leisure to bestow upon such subjects, and he had never known a chancellor of the Exchequer who did not pray to be released from such an addition to his labours. It was, therefore, become absolutely necessary to have a committee of some kind, under whose authority the matter might be fairly investigated, and who might be able to apply some timely check to the present extravagant proceedings. They saw every where extensive and costly buildings erected, as it was supposed, upon regular estimates, but when they were completed it frequently turned out that there had been no estimate at all. Much good might arise from an inquiry. At all events, he deprecated any attempt to take these things out of the hands of a committee, in order to place them under the control of the office of Woods and Forests.Mr. R. Colborne
llll rose only to correct an error into which the Secretary for the Colonies had fallen. The right hon. gentleman had said, that it was impossible that the calculation could be correct, because a loss of 8,000llllMr. P. Thompson
 disapproved of the clause in question. Either none of the candidates should be called upon to pay any share of the expenses incident to the election, or they should all defray them in an equal proportion.Mr. Wynn
 seconded the amendment, because he was of opinion that the corruption had not been so general as to justify a transfer of the franchise.Sir C. Burrell
 said, there was scarcely one clause in the bill which could be reconciled with the provisions of the general law regulating elections. In fact, the provisions of some of the clauses were so inconvenient, that it would be impossible to reduce them to practice. He therefore suggested, that it would be advisable to go no further with the bill at present.Mr. Huskisson
l1318l1317 said, the noble lord seemed to think that the public would gain on the contracts already made by the
l1318l1317Mr. Huskisson
 thought the machinery of the bill was altogether too cumbersome. He did not see why, if it should be decided to give the franchise to Manchester, they should not subject the elections in that town to the same general laws which affected other elections.Mr. G. Lamb
 hoped that, after the House had determined to extend the privilege of East Retford to the adjoining hundred, at least the same course would be followed in the case of Penryn.Mr. Manning
 protested against the continuance of a Sinking-fund on the principle of that now sanctioned by parliament. What could be more absurd in private life, than for a gentleman to spend the whole of his income, go into debt, borrow a sum of money to pay it, and then exclaim, "See what a job I have made of it, I have paid off a couple of thousand pounds with one hand, which I have borrowed with the other!" The question for the House to consider was, whether they would continue the absurd act which obliged them to maintain a fund for the redemption of their debt, when all their income was absorbed by their expenditure.Sir J. Wrottesley
 said, that if reform did not take place where such positive delinquency was proved, the House would get into the deepest disgrace with the country.Sir Joseph Yorke
 said, that when he saw a president of the Royal Society rise to read them a memoir or paper, for the purpose of showing that Cornwall was not over-represented, and that Nottingham was, he thought it would puzzle that learned person not a little to accomplish such an object, and the result had justified his anticipation. He thought the measure supported by the right hon. Secretary, of transferring the franchise to a great commercial community, was called for by the: increase of wealth, the progress of civilization, and the march of intellect. When such a number of these great towns had grown up to be so many Londons, it was time they should be represented. Manchester should not be allowed to remain longer without a member in that House. He hoped the right hon. Secretary would persevere in the course which he had indicated it to be his intention to pursue. He rejoiced to see a minister of the Crown not afraid to look a moderate reform in the face.Sir Joseph Yorke
 wished to ask the chancellor of the Exchequer, who he knew was not like Mr. Pitt, an heaven-born minister—indeed, his right hon. friend had come into office without knowing much more than that two and two made four, or at all events knowing very little about Treasury affairs—he wished to ask his right hon. friend, whether in his opinion Mr. Finlayson, that modern Cocker, had not taken very exaggerated views on the subject of these life annuities?Sir J. Yorke
1308 said, it appeared to him very extraordinary, that, after they had been told that the Finance Committee could
1308Sir J. Yorke
lll said, that too sanguine expectations of reduction should not be held out, when it was considered that 30,000,000lllSir M. W. Ridley
1302 said, that he rose for the: purpose of obtaining information from the right hon. Secretary opposite, with respect to the Treaty that had been entered into on the 6th of July, and the right, hon. gentleman might be assured, that a satisfactory answer to the questions which he was about to propose, would not only be grateful to that House, but to the country generally. He wished to know whether the Treaty of the 6th of July was to be maintained by his majesty, under all circumstances? He knew that various declarations had been made on this subject by ministers in that, and the other House of parliament, to the same effect as those which had been delivered from the throne; but since those declarations had been made, new events had occurred, which induced many persons to believe that some change was about to take place, and made it desirable that further explanations on the question should be entered into by ministers. The new circumstances that had induced this supposition were notorious. A manifesto, or, at all events, a document which bore an official character, had been promulgated by Russia, and had produced such a line of conduct in the Ottoman Porte, as to induce the Russian
1302Sir R. Wilson
 did not know how it was possible for the Finance Committee to do more than they were doing. They sat three times a week, from twelve to four, and the sub-committee sat on the alternate days. He hoped the committee would not suffer itself to be hurried forward by the anxiety, however commendable, of individuals; and that it would abstain from making any report, until it could make one which would be satisfactory to the public.Sir J. Newport
 said, that when the letter should be before the House, it would, he had no doubt, be seen, that blame attached in some quarter for not having acted upon it earlier, as great loss had accrued to the public from the mistaken calculations on which the annuities had been granted. He agreed that it would be proper to suspend the act for the present.Lord Howick
l.1337l.,s.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.,s.l.l.l.l.l.,1336s.d.s.s.d.s.s.s. rose to present a petition from the Insurance Offices of London and Westminster. It was signed by two chartered companies—the Royal Exchange and the London Assurance—and by fifteen other bodies of the same kind, which had been established with a capital of many millions. They contended, that the rate of duty on Fire Insurances had sensibly affected their progress, and lessened the amount of property that would otherwise have been insured; they confidently believed that a reduction of the duty would increase the practice of Insurance, and thus indemnify the country from any loss in the revenue. The duty amounted to a tax in some cases of one hundred per cent. The subject was of vast importance, not only to the petitioners but to the public at large; and when it was stated that an insurer to the extent of 20l.1337l.,s.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.,s.l.l.l.l.l.,1336s.d.s.s.d.s.s.s.Mr. Alderman Thompson
l.l.l.l.l.,1338s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. said, that as the hon. alderman had confined himself to requesting the full consideration of the subject, he had no hesitation in assuring him, not only that he would do so, but that he had already taken measures to ascertain the facts of the case as far as regarded marine insurances, in order to decide whether the duty could be reduced without injury to the revenue. The income derived from the duty on insurances exceeded a million, and it would be the height of imprudence to give the House or individuals an expectation that it would be possible to make any arrangement which might put in hazard that amount of revenue. As to fire assurances, when the hon. member stated, that the amount of duty at present was such as to impede the insurance of property, the data before the House did not warrant such a position. The amount of duty on fire assurances had been regularly progressive; and whatever the check might have been on the ordinary principles governing financial arrangements, it had not been sufficient to put a stop to the increase. In one year it was 600,000l.l.l.l.l.,1338s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1339l.l.l. remarked upon the want of the relative proportion of property insured, to the general increase of property. Before the year 1814, the insurance duty amounted to 514,0001339l.l.l.Mr. Warburton
 said, he could not agree with the chancellor of the Exchequer in the propriety of this tax, which he had always looked upon as a grievance. It was a tax upon the prudence and providence of persons in trade, and as objectionable an impost as could well have been introduced. He believed that the amount of the rate imposed diminished the desire to insure. He, for instance, would never himself insure his own property on any large scale, because the price to be paid greatly exceeded the ratio of the risk. He wished to suggest to the chancellor of the Exchequer the risk he ran of having this business transferred to Ostend, or some of the opposite ports, where, through British capital and agents, it might be done so as materially to affect the revenue here.Mr. Baring
1342fieri facias,13411340 rose to present a petition of which he had given notice, from the British, native, and other inhabitants of Calcutta, respecting the law of Real Property within that settlement, and particularly respecting the liability of such property in the hands of executors and administrators to the payment of the debts of the deceased. This petition, which was signed, he believed, by almost every person of respectability and opulence in Calcutta, complained of the imperfect and unsettled state of the law in that particular, arising chiefly from some late decisions of the Supreme Court, affecting property to the amount of many millions sterling.—The petition stated, that previously to the granting by his majesty Of the charter of the Supreme Court, in
1342fieri facias,13411340Mr. Fergusson
1349 expressed his determination to oppose the bill, because it was a most impolitic measure, and would make the law more complicated and expensive than it now was. He was also greatly afraid of the noble lord's committee, when he saw the hon. baronet (sir J. Graham), the great reprehender of committees, upon it. Words had been put into the mouth of an eminent solicitor which he had never uttered. That gentleman was represented to have said, that, in a great contest, one third of the votes sent to the assessor were objected to, on the ground of the land-tax. Now he believed that the proportion of votes disputed was never even one tenth, and he had found that there was no instance in which one-tenth of the votes had been questioned. The only case that approximated to this calculation was that of his own election for Westmoreland, in which every vexatious objection that the ingenuity of man could devise was urged, and yet, in that case the proportion was only one twelfth; and in that of Devonshire, the next in degree, one twenty-eighth. The effect of this bill would be, to establish throughout the year one continued election contest. It would exclude all minor voters, and throw the representation into the hands of the wealthy freeholders. The bill was only a copy of Mr. Bearcroft's bill in 1788, which was just as complicated a measure as this. The payment of the land-tax had been found by experience to be the
1349Lord Lowther
s.l., denied that he had ever treated committees with contempt. He thought no measure could be rendered perfect without the labours of a committee. The noble lord had referred to the evidence of an eminent solicitor. Now, he knew that solicitor to be a gentleman of unimpeachable veracity, and he had said, that one third of the votes that went to the assessor in the contest at Glocester arose out of the land-tax. At Westmoreland, that gentleman had said that one out of eleven were objected to on the same score. He must contend that this bill was much less complicated than the present law. Serjeant Heywood, a good authority, had said, that the land-tax bill had raised more doubts upon the law of election than all the other enactments put together. The noble lord had expressed the most fastidious jealousy lest this bill should increase the expense of election. He was bound to believe the noble lord sincere, but he was quite sure he was wrong. His noble friend, the member for York, had expended 120,000s.l.,Sir James Graham
1350à priori, objected to the bill, though he admitted it was strongly recommended, as coming from the noble lord. But the principle was, that the constituent body should not be exposed to expense and litigation in defence of their rights. He admitted that, if any steps for that purpose could be taken preliminary to an election, much might be done to reduce expenses; but this bill did not profess any such intention. It established an operose course of inquiry into the validity of voters, which was to be repeated every year. No person was to be allowed to vote, unless his name was in the register. If 1350à priori,The Attorney-General
 said, that so far as he had communicated with the Board of Control, he had found on the part of its members, and particularly on the part of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Wynn), its late president, the greatest facility and attention afforded to him. Indeed, the right hon. gentleman had upon all occasions exhibited the most sincere intentions and assiduous zeal for the promotion of the interests of India.Mr. Fergusson
l.1346l.l. plusl.l.l.l.l.l.1345 wished to offer a very few words upon this bill, because he
l.1346l.l. plusl.l.l.l.l.l.1345Lord Althorpe
data1347 said, that no person could purchase an annuity who was under thirty-five years of age. It had been insinuated, that he had attacked the professional character of Mr. Finlayson; but he had done no such thing. On the contrary, he had borne his humble testimony to the merits of Mr. Finlayson. There was one important point connected with this subject, which was worthy the attention of the House. He alluded to the fact, that a very material and gratifying change had taken place in this country, with respect to the average duration of human life. The tables published by order of the House exhibited this in a remarkable degree. These tables proved the extraordinary fact, that, in the course of the last forty years, such a change had taken place in the condition of the people, that the decrease of mortality in Great Britain was from one in forty to one in fifty-six. This was one of the strongest proofs that could be adduced to show the improvement in the state of the country. No proposition to which statesmen or philosophers could have recourse could more decidedly manifest progressive improvement than an increase of the population, and a decrease of human mortality. He thought it right to bring this under the consideration of the House, because it was connected intimately with the formation of tables to which allusion had been made. The increased longevity of the people, so far as these annuities went, might in some degree interfere with the
data1347Mr. Herries
 supported the prayer of the petition, and expressed his hope that ministers would find themselves warranted in reducing the duty.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
 called, the attention of the government to the marine insurances, from their manifest operation upon the shipping interest, which was already so seriously, and he feared dangerously, restricted.Mr. Sykes
 said, it was quite apparent, from the statement of the noble lord, that Mr. Finlayson, like all other calculators, assumed something which experience taught us never happened, and which, in the end, invariably proved, that all their calculations were not worth a straw; and the greatest of all their assumptions had perpetually been, that by tricks with figures, they could reduce a debt which had gone on constantly increasing, and which, it was idle to hope, would ever be redeemed.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, that the chief error of the government in granting those annuities had been in following the Northampton tables; which certainly were those used by the Equitable Insurance office, but for a very different purpose from that in which they were employed by the state. That office used them for granting payments at the end of life, while the government used them for granting annuities during life; it therefore was clear, that whatever was gain to the Insurance office was loss to the country. He agreed, that it was quite necessary that new tables should be calculated; but at the same time trusted that the annuity system would not be abandoned.Mr. Monck
 said, it was true that a change had taken place in the duration of life during the last thirty years; but the right hon. gentleman seemed to have forgotten, that much of that was owing to the introduction of vaccination, and other modern improvements in medicine. But if they looked back to the forty years that preceded 1790, they would find, that there had always been some epidemic or other. In the year 1782, an epidemic had occurred, which spread itself throughout Europe, and had been felt most severely. For the last thirty years they had been free from such scourges; but that was no reason why such an event should not occur again. He hoped ministers would not allow much time to intervene without reviewing the tables upon which this, bill was founded. With the assistance of proper tables, the annuities' system would be a most effective mode of reducing a national debt.Mr. Hume
 expressed his satisfaction at seeing the subject taken up by the learned gentleman, and proceeded to comment upon the want of attention towards the affairs of India in general. They had a Board of Control; but he was at a loss to discover in what respect that Board devoted their attention to India. The members of it were often turned out in the course of a year, not because they were unfit for the office, but because they belonged to one or other political party. His majesty's government, in looking back for a series of years, should take shame to themselves for the manner in which they had conducted the government of India, and for the way in which that Board of Control, which presided over a hundred million of men, had been constituted and maintained. He condemned the restrictions which existed upon the commerce and intercourse between this country and our Indian possessions. Those possessions were full of wealth, and abounded in large tracts of rich and unoccupied land. Why not remove these absurd restrictions, encourage emigration thither, and, instead of sending English capital to the various countries of South America, allow it to be employed freely and advantageously in India? He trusted that the learned gentleman would go on with the subject which he had taken up. He might look for the support of that House, and of public opinion out of doors.Mr. Hume
1344 defended the Board of Control from the reflections of the hon. member (for Aberdeen), and de-
1344Mr. T. P. Courtenay
 said, that, during the time he had been connected with the Board of Control, he had commissioned a chief justice who was sent out from this country to collect information respecting the propriety of introducing the Insolvent Debtors' laws there. That learned judge, however, fell a victim to disease in about six months after his arrival in India, and consequently the desired information was not collected. Great difference of opinion existed on the subject in India. If it could be done, he was of opinion that it would be better effected by some species of regulations respecting debtors there, than by any legislative enactment here. The draught of a bill upon the subject had arrived in this country a few days previous to his leaving office, and he recommended to the noble lord, now at the head of the Board of Control, to have the matter laid before the law officers of the Crown. Perhaps it might be supposed that he (Mr. Wynn) would be most competent to introduce the subject to the consideration of the House; and if that were the case, he should be very happy to do so.Mr. Wynn
 confessed he had not yet been able to give the bill all the attention it deserved. From what he had seen of it, however, he thought that many of its regulations would disappoint the expectations of the noble lord. Instead of saving expense he thought it would effect a perpetual system of taxation. In the present state of the House, he wished the merits of the bill not to be brought under discussion.Mr. Huskisson
 agreed with the hon. member in the propriety of the measure he wished to introduce. In his opinion there ought to be a discussion every year in the affairs of India, similar to that introduced by the late lord Melville when he brought forward his yearly Budget. Such discussions tended greatly to enlighten public opinion upon the subject of India.Mr. Trant
 deprecated the system of annuities, as acted upon up to the present time, and called the attention of the House to the Irish Tontine of 1773, 1775, and 1777; of which, owing to the bad system pursued, not one class was yet extinct; which shewed how guarded government ought to be in taking a step of this kind.Sir J. Newport
 said, he had sufficient experience in that House to know, that if he put off the second reading until after the holydays, he could not carry the bill through afterwards. The most suitable way would be for those who objected to the bill, to let it pass the present stage, and take the discussion on the motion for going into a committee.Lord Althorp
 maintained that the bill, by lessening the duration of the poll at county elections, would materially lessen their expense. This was a result no less desirable to voters than to candidates, for at present the enormous expense of standing for a county often left the freeholders scarcely any choice as to their representative.Lord Althorp
1352llllssssddlsllll1351 rose to submit a motion for information regarding the Canada Company, but begged to be distinctly understood, as not meaning to cast any reflection either upon the company collectively, or upon the individuals composing it. His object was, merely that the House should be in possession of all the knowledge it could acquire, before it came to any decision on the subject of emigration. He believed that when the company was formed, the House was not at all aware of the terms: an act was passed to enable the government to grant a charter, but parliament was not made acquainted with the extent of the capital, or with any of the conditions. In the Prospectus, it
1352llllssssddlsllll1351Mr. Alderman Waithman
1353 said, that as he was connected with the Colonial Department at the date of this transaction, he would merely say a few words, leaving it to the Secretary of State either to give or withhold the account required. He might, indeed, incidentally mention, that the House was already in possession of half the information the hon. alderman wished to obtain: the terms of the contract with the company had been printed, and in the hands of members for some years. As to what the Canada Company had done, he did not know what power the House possessed to compel that body to disclose in what manner its business had been conducted. He had that morning read over four closely-printed folio pages of a Prospectus, detailing all the proceedings of the company, from its creation to the present hour, and from thence, he thought, the hon. alderman might have obtained all he desired on the second branch of his inquiry. The consistency of the argument of the hon. alderman he could not understand; first, he had contended, that the Canada Company had obtained an enormous profit, which ought to have come into the hands of government; and next he had insisted that the whole project was fallacious, and that the loss to the individuals engaged in it would be enormous. With respect to the high premium on the shares, it was quite cer-
1353Mr. Wilmot Horton
 insisted, that the House had a right to ascertain whether or not the company had fulfilled its part of the contract.Mr. Warburton
 admitted the right, but denied the power, of the House to inspect all the private accounts of the company.Mr. W. Horton
 called upon government to watch the proceedings of the company with jealousy; although he had no doubt, from the candid statement of the hon. gentleman, that at present there was nothing to be complained of.Mr. Warburton
 injustice to the company, felt bound to state, that during the short time he had been in the Colonial Office, he had found that body ready to enter into the fullest explanations government had a right to demand. He believed that the whole of the terms of the contract had been definitively settled. Some misapprehension might arise out of the expressions used that night: the contract at one time was called a grant, at another a sale, and at a third, a bargain; but whatever it was, he was satisfied that no favour had been shown to the company, but that it had obtained a certain portion of land, that it might be put into a state capable of cultivation. The payments were made by annual instalments, and no title was given to the company until they had fulfilled all the preliminary parts of the engagement: when the money was paid the title was given, and not till then. He did not mean to use the words in an opprobrious sense; but the fact certainly was, that the company was a body of land-jobbers. If the proprietors ever derived any profits from the scheme, it could only be at a very remote period, and they must lay out of their money for many years. In the mean time, heavy expenses must be incurred; and, before it would be taken by settlers, the company must confer on the land a value that could only be given to it by the disbursement of a large capital. As one part of the motion was already satisfied, and another could not be complied with, he wished it to be withdrawn.Mr. Stanley,
 replied, that there was already before the House a bill, which had for its object the progressive abolition of the Clergy Reserves. The Crown Reserves were also in a course of extinction.Mr. W. Horton
13571356 said, that the hon. gentleman had taken a correct view of the utility of these companies to the country. In other parts of the world there were immense tracts of wild land which were totally unproductive; and if, by any company, they could be brought under cultivation, so as to make a return to the parties employed upon them, the result would be, not only beneficial to the colony, but to the general interests of this country. He was glad that he could state, that companies on the same principle had been formed in New South Wales and at Van Diemen's Land. He trusted they would be all successful; for to the extent in which they reclaimed lands from the state of nature, they contributed essentially to the increase of the power and resources of this country. By the contract with the Colonial Department, the Canada Company had given for what it had purchased the full rate at which land was selling in the market. The company was paying down ready
13571356Mr. Secretary Huskisson
 hoped that the members of the company would make fortunes, but recommended the government to take care that the terms of the bargain were exactly fulfilled. It was of the utmost consequence, that from time to time, the House should make itself acquainted with the proceedings of the company; especially with a view to the general question of emigration. He, therefore, hoped that no technical objection would be thrown in the way of the production of the account required. In Canada there was a proportion of land, called Crown and Clergy Reserves, and as they most injuriously interfered with the prosperity of the colony, by preventing communication between one part and another, he wished to know whether any of those Reserves had been extirpated.Mr. Bright
 said, that, being one of those who were anxious to promote emigration, he was far from viewing this company with a jealous eye, or from reproaching government with the contracts they had entered into with it. On the contrary, he should like to see similar bargains made with a dozen other companies, on the same terms and with the same objects. This company had purchased a million or two of acres at a certain price, and as this sum was received, it was to be applied to defray the expenses of those colonies, which had been hitherto paid by that House. The company assisted emigrants who found their way across the Atlantic, with the means of removing themselves to the place where they were to be located; and it supplied them, besides, with provisions for a year or a year and a half. Thus the company forwarded emigration in the best possible manner, without calling on the government for any assistance. By its exertions large tracts of soil, which would otherwise remain barren, had been brought under cultivation. He was sure, if other companies could be induced to employ their capital in the same way, they would be amply repaid in six or seven years, and would render great benefit to the public, by finding employment in the colonies for multitudes of people who could find none in their own country.Mr. Hume
1354 assured the House, on behalf of the Canada Company, that it had not the slightest objection to the fullest investigation of its concerns. The hon. alderman had spoken of the enormous profits of the company. He could inform the House, that the shares were at that moment at fifty per cent discount. Nothing could be further from the intentions of the company than a desire to avoid the bargain into which they had entered. It was not the purpose of the Canada Company to do more than to place the lands purchased from government at the disposal of such persons as might be inclined to take them. The company went through
1354Mr. Easthope
 said, he could not agree to the proposition of the hon. member. Nothing could be more absurd than to see the two representatives of Manchester subjected to a process not required from any other members of the House.Lord John Russell
1362, seeing the Secretary of State for the Home Department in his place, begged to call his attention to the Correspondence just laid on the table, from the Commission appointed to inquire into the Supply of Water to the Metropolis. He must say, in the outset, that this correspondence was any thing but satisfactory; and there were one or two points in it on which he felt it his duty to ask for some explanation. It appeared that the commissioners imagined that their powers extended, not merely to an inquiry into the present state of the supply of water to the metropolis, but that they were bound to suggest the means of making up the deficiency in the supply, if there was any, and of finding a remedy for the insalubrity of the water, if they found it to be so. Under this impression, they had entered upon a very extended examination, and had collected a large mass of evidence. After stating that they "had been occupied for four months in collecting a large mass of evidence relating to a much more extended inquiry than was comprised in the questions to which the right hon. Secretary had limited their commission," they proceeded to say, "this evidence, we hoped, would have prepared the way for our recommendation of a practicable and efficacious plan of supplying the whole of the metropolis with pure and wholesome water—an object which we cannot but esteem as of considerable importance, and which, as it appears from the several petitions to parliament giving occasion to the present commission, has been so loudly and so earnestly called for by the public." The right hon. gentleman objected, that great expense would result from taking levels and making surveys; but if those proceedings had not been originally intended, he would ask why an eminent engineer, Mr. Telford, had been appointed a member of the com-
1362Mr. Hobhouse
1363 said, that when he returned to office, he found that a commission had been appointed by a former Secretary of State, enabling certain persons named in it to institute a full inquiry into the state of the supply of water in the metropolis. He found that the three eminent persons named in the commission had power to administer oaths to the witnesses who gave evidence before them; and it certainly did appear that in other respects they were furnished with ample powers to conduct their inquiry. As to taking levels and making surveys, he had required an estimate of the expense before he would give his consent, but that had not been furnished him; and he could not agree to embark in any scheme without some limits being assigned to the expense that might be incurred by the country. The correspondence proved, that the commissioners had full powers to conduct their inquiry. He had not told them that they had nothing to do but to make an analysis of the
1363Mr. Secretary Peel
1364 said, that the delay which had occurred in the prosecution of the objects of the commission arose, as he believed, from the following causes:—At the time when the commission was appointed, they nominated a person as secretary, whom they afterwards found to be incompetent to the performance of its duties. The principal objection was, that this person was not versed in the science of engineering; and they applied to the noble lord, then at the head of the Home Department, to order the appointment of a practical engineer. Lord Lansdowne expressed some doubt as to the power which he possessed to interfere in the selection of such a person; but he informed the commission, that if they felt themselves embarrassed in their proceedings by the want of an engineer, and were disposed to make a selection of any gentleman acquainted with the science of engineering, he would
1364Mr. S. Rice
 again asked whether the right hon. gentleman had any objection to the production of that part of the evidence which had already been taken.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he had no objection to the production of the evidence, if the commissioners consented. It might be that they had taken evidence upon only one side of the question in some cases; and if they were to publish that evidence without taking the evidence which might be opposed to it, their conduct would seem to be influenced by partiality. If, however, the commissioners were not opposed to its immediate production, he had no objection whatever.Mr. Secretary Peel
 objected to the proposition, because it included no protection to the poor and dependent voters. If it had been founded on the principle of secret voting, which would afford a real protection to the labouring classes, that would, indeed, be an improvement in the system of voting at elections. But this Declaration would be a cloak—a mere pretence of purity—leaving the great objections to the present system as strong as ever.Mr. Warburton
 said, he should have been astonished if any hon. member had attempted to introduce into this bill a proposition that votes should be given in secret. He trusted he should never see the day when that principle would be applied to the electors of this country—when those electors would be so lowered in character, that they durst not state their objections openly to the candidate, and make known their reasons for voting against him. That, however, was not the proposition which the House had to discuss; but if it were made, he would decidedly oppose the introduction of any principle into a single bill, which, if good, should be made a general measure of legislation. He objected to the proposed Declaration, because it did not seem to him consistent with good sense or sound policy, to confine regulation to any particular borough, which, if right, should be generally established.Mr. Secretary Peel
1360 was surprised at the opposition offered to this proposition by the right hon. baronet, who was so uniformly the advocate of reform. If the hon. member had made this proposition in a bill which would have applied to all the members, though the right hon. baronet might have urged no objection to it, he was sure an abundance of members would have protested against it, as a measure too sweeping and general. It was the fashion to sanction none but partial reforms. The House was to deal with every particular case as it arose; but no principle was to be laid down for general application to delinquent boroughs. How, then, were partial benefits to be gained, but by proceeding on the same principle? It was said that there would be something peculiarly invidious in placing the members for Manchester in a situation in which they would appear more pure than the other members of the House; or turning the argument the other way, in apprehending them to be less pure. But that was not to him a sufficient reason for not taking advantage of the opportunity of recognizing a valuable principle, which, if they found it work well in this instance, would present an example worthy of imitation, and might gradually spread,
1360Mr. D. W. Harvey
1359 rose to propose a clause. In the course of the various discussions that had taken place on this bill, the fact of the corruption of the borough of Penryn had been assumed to be so notorious as to admit of no doubt, and for that reason the elective franchise was to be transferred to the town of Manchester. The clause he proposed to introduce would make it imperative on the members returned for Manchester, to subscribe a Declaration before they took their seats, that their return had not been procured by bribery, or by any other corrupt or improper means. This, he thought, was the most conscientious mode of reform that could be adopted, and it would necessarily have the effect of saving Manchester, the adopted child of the noble lord, from falling into the errors and offences which, had proved so fatal to the independence and franchise of Penryn. The clause was to the following effect:—"Be it further enacted, that the Burgesses to be elected and returned for the said borough of Manchester shall each, at the table of the House of Commons, and before they take their seats, make and subscribe a Declaration in the following words: I, A. B., do solemnly declare, that I have neither given nor promised to give, nor do intend to give, either by myself, or by any other person for me, directly, or indirectly, any fee, reward, or other gratuity, to any one of the electors of the borough of Manchester, in consideration of his vote, in order to my being returned or elected as a Burgess to
1359Mr. J. Stewart
1361 believed the right hon. gentleman's words did not convey his real meaning. Did voting by ballot lower the character of the members of that House? Was it not deemed a wise and just mode to choose the members of committees by ballot? This had long been the practice of that House, and the right hon. gentleman, therefore, had carried his condemnation of the proposition a little too far. He concurred with his hon. friend, that this Declaration ought to be a general measure; but if the hon. member went to a division, he would vote with him, though he would advise him not to press his proposition on the present bill, but to intro-
1361Mr. Hume
 said, he could have no possible objection to the introduction of this clause, if it were made part of a general measure of reform. He remembered that, many years ago, the hon. member for Cumberland (Mr. Curwen) had a bill before the House, in which there was a clause to nearly the same import. That was a general measure, and it had his support; but he had a decided objection to place the representatives of Manchester on a different footing from other members. Those who thought it likely that the elections for Manchester would be more corrupt than those for other places, knew nothing of the state of that town. If the hon. gentleman would make his Declaration part of a general measure, it should have his hearty assent; but he would give his decided negative to it, if it applied to any particular borough.Sir J. Newport
ll said, he had been intrusted with a Petition from about five thousand most respectable inhabitants of St. Mary-le-bone, in favour of the bill before the House, for opening the Select Vestry of that Parish. It complained, that that body was self-elected; that funds were raised under its authority by rates of different kinds, to the amount of about 200,000llSir F. Burdett
 said, he had presented the original petition for the bill, and he had the high authority of the Speaker for saying, that there was nothing informal or irregular in the proceeding. When the hon. gentleman said, that no complaint could be made against the Select Vestry, he seemed to have forgotten the very petition before the House, by which it appeared that five thousand inhabitants thought they had serious ground of charge. He knew also perfectly well, that the whole parish was in a state of ferment and discontent, from the conviction that a total change was necessary in the management of its affairs. But even if its affairs were well managed, that was no reason why rates should be imposed by men who were not in any way responsible: it was enough if it were alleged, that the parishioners were refused the opportunity of looking into the accounts. He hoped the subject would be thoroughly investigated. Let both parties have a fair trial, and he had no doubt the result would be a change in the management of the affairs of the parish.Mr. Hobhouse
 justified his conduct as chairman of the committee, and complained of the manner in which an hon. gentleman, one of the Select Vestry, had gone about canvassing members for their votes, previous to the second reading of the bill, contending that such conduct was unbecoming and indecent. He had not moved the second reading in any haste, nor until he was called upon by others to proceed.Mr. Alderman Wood
 supported the petition on the principle, that no man had a right to tax another without granting an inspection of the accounts, to show that the tax was justly imposed. He had had some experience on this subject, having himself sustained the expense of a proceeding against a select vestry, by whom houses were most unequally rated. The fact was, that the whole business of the parish was managed by a junto.Mr. Alderman Waithman
1379 observed, that the question of select vestries was one which ought at all times to attract much interest. It was often impossible to control their expenses: parishes, in many cases, being entirely at the mercy of a few individuals. Whether in the metropolis, select vestries did more harm than good, he was not prepared to say, but in no case ought the vacancies to be supplied by the remaining members; and a control over the expenditure ought to be exercised by the parish at large. The existing regulations pressed most severely upon all classes, but especially upon shopkeepers: and an alteration in the system of paving and lighting seemed absolutely necessary, as thousands at present were taxed without limitation or inquiry,
1379Mr. Dawson
13861385ss0173 and under 74
0173 and under 748272 and under 73
8272 and under 738671 and under 72
8671 and under 7281070 and under 71
81070 and under 7181369 and under 70
81369 and under 7081668 and under 69
81668 and under 6981867 and under 68
81867 and under 6882066 and under 67
82066 and under 6782165 and under 66
82165 and under 6682264 and under 65
82264 and under 6582363 and under 64
82363 and under 6482462 and under 63
82462 and under 6382561 and under 62
82561 and under 6282660 and under 61
82660 and under 6182759 and under 60
82759 and under 6082858 and under 59
82858 and under 5982957 and under 58
82957 and under 5883056 and under 57
83056 and under 5783155 and under 56
83155 and under 5683254 and under 55
83254 and under 5583353 and under 54
83353 and under 5483452 and under 53
83452 and under 53d.s.
d.s.Wheat—Imperial Measure.
Wheat—Imperial Measure.
0173 and under 74
0173 and under 748272 and under 73
8272 and under 738671 and under 72
8671 and under 7281070 and under 71
81070 and under 7181369 and under 70
81369 and under 7081668 and under 69
81668 and under 6981867 and under 68
81867 and under 6882066 and under 67
82066 and under 6782165 and under 66
82165 and under 6682264 and under 65
82264 and under 6582363 and under 64
82363 and under 6482462 and under 63
82462 and under 6382561 and under 62
82561 and under 6282660 and under 61
82660 and under 6182759 and under 60
82759 and under 6082858 and under 59
82858 and under 5982957 and under 58
82957 and under 5883056 and under 57
83056 and under 5783155 and under 56
83155 and under 5683254 and under 55
83254 and under 5583353 and under 54
83353 and under 5483452 and under 53
83452 and under 53d.s.
d.s.Wheat—Imperial Measure.
Wheat—Imperial Measure.1384sssssssssssdsssssds1383dsldsl138213811380 said, that in rising to move certain resolutions upon the Corn-laws, he felt it incumbent upon him, first, to return his thanks to the House for the kind indulgence which they had shown towards him upon a late occasion, when he had been prevented, by indisposition, from calling their attention to these resolutions; and next, to solicit the indulgence of the House upon the present occasion, while he was treating upon a subject of such great importance, a subject affecting all interests and classes of the community, surrounded by so many theories, partly just and partly ill-founded,—surrounded, too, by errors so dangerous, and by opinions so conflicting, that it was a task of no inconsiderable difficulty to point out any good practical measure which, while it removed as much as possible the objections to the present system, would be likely to meet with the concurrence of all parties. If he were, called upon to develop the great principles which this question involved, and to detail the maxims upon which the trade in corn ought to be conducted, he should stand in still greater need of the indulgence of the House; but, fortunately for himself, and fortunately for the patience of the House, he had not so difficult a task to perform. He could not forget that, a few months ago, the House had given the fullest consideration to this subject,—that it had been deliberately discussed by them,—and that in the course of those discussions, the House had formed their opinion upon almost every measure upon the subject of the Corn-laws. He was bound, therefore, to assume, until the contrary was told him, that the House were prepared to concede the principle which had been acted upon last session; namely, that the corn-trade ought no longer to be regulated by an exclusive code of laws—that it ought no longer to be subject to prohibitions, but to a system of duties. Whether those duties should be fixed or variable,
13861385ss0173 and under 74
0173 and under 748272 and under 73
8272 and under 738671 and under 72
8671 and under 7281070 and under 71
81070 and under 7181369 and under 70
81369 and under 7081668 and under 69
81668 and under 6981867 and under 68
81867 and under 6882066 and under 67
82066 and under 6782165 and under 66
82165 and under 6682264 and under 65
82264 and under 6582363 and under 64
82363 and under 6482462 and under 63
82462 and under 6382561 and under 62
82561 and under 6282660 and under 61
82660 and under 6182759 and under 60
82759 and under 6082858 and under 59
82858 and under 5982957 and under 58
82957 and under 5883056 and under 57
83056 and under 5783155 and under 56
83155 and under 5683254 and under 55
83254 and under 5583353 and under 54
83353 and under 5483452 and under 53
83452 and under 53d.s.
d.s.Wheat—Imperial Measure.
Wheat—Imperial Measure.
0173 and under 74
0173 and under 748272 and under 73
8272 and under 738671 and under 72
8671 and under 7281070 and under 71
81070 and under 7181369 and under 70
81369 and under 7081668 and under 69
81668 and under 6981867 and under 68
81867 and under 6882066 and under 67
82066 and under 6782165 and under 66
82165 and under 6682264 and under 65
82264 and under 6582363 and under 64
82363 and under 6482462 and under 63
82462 and under 6382561 and under 62
82561 and under 6282660 and under 61
82660 and under 6182759 and under 60
82759 and under 6082858 and under 59
82858 and under 5982957 and under 58
82957 and under 5883056 and under 57
83056 and under 5783155 and under 56
83155 and under 5683254 and under 55
83254 and under 5583353 and under 54
83353 and under 5483452 and under 53
83452 and under 53d.s.
d.s.Wheat—Imperial Measure.
Wheat—Imperial Measure.1384sssssssssssdsssssds1383dsldsl138213811380Mr. C. Grant
1390s said, he could not agree with those who thought that the duty ought to be low; neither did he think that a fixed duty was better than a variable one, the latter being more adapted to the fluctuating interests of the country. He could not help regretting that the low rate of the duty of last year had not been discovered and admitted, before the amendment which was moved by the hon. member for Bridgenorth. Now, however, they had it at 601390sMr. Fergusson
 concurred in opinion with the hon. members for Wiltshire and Somersetshire that it was highly necessary to keep up the price of barley and oats. The quantity of oats imported into this country from Ireland, in the short period between the 5th of January and the 22nd of March in the present year, had been one hundred and sixty-five thousand quarters; and, if he was not much deceived, the greater portion of those oats had been previously brought from foreign markets into Ireland, to the destruction of the grower at home. Unless a decided protection was given by the new law to oats and barley, a stagnation in the home production of those articles must be the consequence.Colonel Sibthorpe
1398ss.ss1397ssprima faciesssipsissimis verbis1396sssssssss1395ssssdsl13941393 observed, that although he by no means agreed that it was desirable to abstain from ail immediate discussion on the present occasion; and although he thought it an extraordinary anomaly, when a measure was brought forward by a minister of the Crown, that it should be unaccompanied by a full explanation of its merits and character; yet, as the propriety of such a course had been maintained, he would not eater into
1398ss.ss1397ssprima faciesssipsissimis verbis1396sssssssss1395ssssdsl13941393Mr. Secretary Huskisson
sssssss1401sss.s14001399 said, he thought that the complaints of the right hon. gentleman who had last spoken, as to the conduct pursued by some members in that committee, were rather unreasonable. The right hon. gentleman should consider that
sssssss1401sss.s14001399Mr. Baring
s14061405dsdsds1404sdsds1403ss1402 said, that the hon. gentleman having confessed the measure to be more favourable to his views than he had anticipated, he could not but be much surprised to hear the hon. gentleman afterwards declare his doubts whether the measure were preferable to the existing system, which it was meant to
s14061405dsdsds1404sdsds1403ss1402Mr. Secretary Peel
 maintained, that the interest of the agriculturists and manufacturers were closely identified, and could not be severed, without detriment to one or the other. He therefore disapproved of the attempt which was too often made in that House to set them in opposition with each other. As to the hon. member for Aberdeen's system of fixed duties, it never could be acted on, because, in years of scarcity, duties would be, as they had always been, set aside to meet the wants of the country. He was of opinion, that the scale proposed on the present occasion was a considerable improvement on that of last year. Such being his view, he would declare his intention of giving the bill founded on these resolutions his support. He apprehended little danger from any attempt to excite popular feeling with respect to this question. The lower classes were beginning to find out that they were not so materially interested in the question of cheap bread as it was wished to make them believe they were. They were now pretty generally convinced that low bread brought low wages.Colonel Wood
1411 said, he was prepared to maintain that a free trade in corn would be found most advantageous to the agricultural interest as well as to all the other great interests of the country. After having listened attentively to the speeches of the Secretary for the Colonies, the President of the Board of Trade, and the Secretary for the Home Department, he was persuaded that they were strongly inclined to take the same view of the question that he, did, though they, in their discretion, did not feel justified in avowing their opinions altogether so openly as he did, who was unconnected with office, and free from responsibility. He would not trouble the House further on this point at the present moment; but he wished it to be understood, that he would bring the question substantively under the consideration of parliament before the close of the session. It, however, appeared to him that most persons mistook the real nature of the question which they were called upon to consider. It was not so much a question of corn as of currency; and it was impossible to talk about the price that things would bear, unless persons were prepared to look at the state of the currency, which was the measure of that price. He was satisfied that the distress of the country was in a great measure, fictitious. He saw, that in the midst of substantial wealth, of improvements of every description, the agricultural, manufacturing, mercantile, trading, and shipping interests, were equally distressed,—were all affected by one and the same cause. There could not be a more mischievous mistake than holding out to the people at large, that different ranks of society, different professions and callings, had, in fact, a divided interest. That was not the case, and nothing could be so false as to imagine that the manufacturing interest could flourish if the agricultural interest were depressed. What was the manufacturing interest but the surplus produce of the agricultural interest worked up into various shapes? All other interests grew out of the agricultural interest, and all flourished and prospered together. The expenditure, the great debt of the country, had been framed on a high-price system. The country could only be raised to the state of prosperity from which it had fallen, by a de-
1411Sir F. Burdett
 said, that, the bill made a complete alteration in the mode of taking the poll, and was an unnecessary piece of legislation. Instead of facilitating the taking of polls, it would complicate the matter, and throw a degree of power and influence into the hands of the: returning officer, who was generally a party man, which it was highly injudicious that he should possess. The erection of separate and additional places for polling would be of no benefit; for the delay at present was occasioned, not by the undisputed, but by the disputed votes. The proposed exanimations upon oath, especially of the voters as to their qualification, was a useless novelty. The hon. colonel bad framed a measure very applicable, perhaps, for Worcester, but totally unfit for most other boroughs in the kingdoms The bill would increase the intricacy and uncertainty of elections, while it offered no adequate advantage for the many disadvantages it introduced into the system. As an amendment he would move, that the report be taken, into further consideration on that day six. months.Mr. Baring
 put it to his hon. colleague, if the bill were to pass the House as it now stood, what security, since the voters were obliged to go to a particular place to poll, was there given that the returning officers would not exercise their influence to induce the electors to give their votes to the candidate favoured by the returning officer? In. his opinion, great evils must flow from the measure, if carried into effect. Besides, he saw no reason for the candidates being put to the additional expense which this measure must entail on them, in the erecting of hustings. He did not see what use there possibly could be in the adjournment of the poll for forty-eight hours after the opening of the election. This would; be giving a convenient time for the exercise of bribery on the part of those who would be inclined to exert it. With respect, however, to the present system, he did not mean to say that it was free from objections; but he thought it better than the measure proposed, than which nothing could, be more obnoxious, to his constituents.Mr. Robinson
1413 thought, that a postponement until after the holidays might be advisable, but could not consent to any amendment, the effect of which would be to defeat the bill. The subject was one
1413Mr. W. Smith
1414 said, he did not oppose the bill because it increased the number of polling booths, but because it introduced fresh confusion into a subject already sufficiently involved. Whenever this question had been discussed the example of Norwich had been adduced; but he saw nothing in the bill which would liken elections in other places to elections in that city. The reason why elections at Norwich lasted so short a time was, that no objection was ever taken to the votes of paupers, who were allowed to come up to the poll by hundreds. In borough elections, disputes regarding such voters were the chief cause of delay. They were admitted at Norwich and rejected at Worcester, and hence the reason why, at one place the election lasted a day and a quarter, and at the other it occupied fifteen days. The principal objection he felt to the measure was, the wide discretion it gave to returning officers. The duty of the officer was, now, to hold the poll where it had been usually held for the
1414Lord Lowther
 approved of the principle of the measure; but as, in its present shape, he could not agree to it, he hoped it would be revised. He thought that every place ought to bear the expenses of the elections that were had in it; and recommended that the system which had been found for fifty years, to work well in the city of London, should be taken as the model for elections generally.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 bore testimony td the corrupt conduct of returning officers; who often canvassed, and resorted to still more iniquitous practices, to ensure the return of their favourite candidate. If he thought that the object of the measure was to increase the influence of those officers, he would oppose it; but, as he believed it would have the effect of checking their unfair practices, he should give it his support, provided it received in the committee some of those alterations which, he thought necessary. He was particularly desirous to see some measure carried into effect which would prevent the mischievous protraction of elections. To instance one borough in which that practice was carried to a most injurious extent. In Reading, at the last election, 86 electors were potted on the first day; on the second, 354; oh the third, 374; on the fourth, 752; on the fifth, 37; of the sixth, 15; on the seventh, 16; and on the eighth, 12. Now, it was quite clear, that if so large a proportion could be polled in the three first days, the same period would be enough to poll all the electors; and if there were three polling places, then one day, or at the most two, Would be enough. There could be no doubt that the election to which he alluded might have been finished much earlier than it was; but the returning officer on being urged to do so, said he would not do any thing to hazard the return of Mr. Monck, before the day fixed for closing the poll. He did not approve of that part of the bill which gave the returning officers the power of keeping the poll open for forty-eight hours, because that gave them an opportunity of canvassing for their friends; but so much as tended to shorten the duration of polls he held to be not only expedient, but absolutely necessary to ensure the purity of election.Mr. Fyshe Palmer
 said, that the; bill, however shaped, could not meet with his support. The measure might be calculated for Worcester, but he was certain it would not do in other boroughs differently situated. He thought six days were not enough for large boroughs, where the number of voters might exceed six or eight thousand. There would be great difficulty in fixing a period of time to suit all cases and all boroughs, however differently they might be situated as to extent and population. Another important objection to the bill was, the encouragement it held out for collusion between the two candidates. His objections were not to any one or more clauses in the bill, but arose from a full persuasion of the injury likely to arise from it generally, in addition to Its being a serious infringement on the privileges of the whole constituent body.The Attorney-general
1416 was of opinion that the subject was peculiarly entitled to the consideration of the House. The period now occupied in taking the polls was unquestionably too long. Before the year 1784, when the period for elections was unlimited, they occupied only two or three days, with the exception of Westminster. It had been found, both in London and Norwich, that a short time was sufficient to poll all the electors; and thus it was proved that the difficulty of polling a great number of voters, on which so much stress had been laid, might be easily got over. He was not disposed to look so much to the convenience of out-voters, as some members did. If they chose to exercise their elective franchise, they had the opportunity of doing so. He considered the proposed regulation of the magistrates at Quarter Sessions having the power, under certain restrictions, of fixing upon a suitable place where the election should be held, would remove many inconveniences which now existed, particularly in small town-halls, where it had been contrived that one body of electors should resist the other in ascending the staircase to give their votes. He alluded to Weymouth on a recent occasion, as affording an instance arising from this evil. As regarded collusion between the candidates, he contended that such collusion was as easy to be discovered on the second or third day, as on the sixth. He considered the latter part of the bill most useful, and could not conceive how it could be considered as holding out an encouragement to, cor-
1416Mr. Wynn
 said, that if he was called upon to give his vote, it would be for the amendment of the hon. gentleman. It was desirable, indeed, that the poll should be shortened, so that electors in general were not aggrieved. The period should be fixed, with reference to the number of voters at each place. In Westminster, for instance, where the number of voters was twenty thousand, six days, which would suffice for other places, would be utterly insufficient. When he saw the bill giving additional power to that already possessed by the returning officers, he must withhold his vote from it. He objected also to that part of the bill which related to separate polling booths. This might be convenient in some respects; but it was a custom consonant with the principles of the constitution for the candidate to be present at the place of election, that he might, if necessary, be questioned by the voters; and he thought this was an advantage which ought not to be given up for other, perhaps fallacious, advantages. With respect to the duration of polls, there were modes and devices, under the present bill, by which the voting might be retarded. He was, however, not disposed to object to lessening the duration of polls in general.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that so many gentlemen were of opinion that the bill might be improved by further consideration, that he should recommend the hon. member to withdraw it.Mr. Baring
1417 objected to the bill. If it had passed before the last election for Weymouth, he should not have been there to offer his opposition to it. It was perfectly certain that force was used on that occasion; and, according to this bill, it
1417Mr. Sugden
 in reply, defended the enactments of his bill, and persisted in moving, that it be re-committed.Colonel Davies,
1378 contended, that there was no pretence for the charges contained in the petition of the inhabitants. The number present at the meeting where the petition of the Vestry had been agreed to, was, he believed eighty, and it was signed by all who were not members of parliament. Into the merits of the case he should be happy to commence a full
1378Colonel Baillie
1410 was of opinion, that these resolutions would be very beneficial
1410Colonel Trench
sl1389ss said, that the more he considered the question, the more he was convinced that the agriculturist was entitled to something above what was laid down as the protection in the former bill. The proposition of the right hon. gentleman was certainly an improvement on the bill of last year; the difference between which and the present was, that the present imposed the duty at 2sl1389ssMr. Benett
 agreed, with the hon. member for Westminster, that the greater share of the difficulties the committee had to contend with, arose out of the last enactments relative to the currency. He also thought with, him, that if it were not for the national debt and the burthens it entailed on the public, it would be of comparatively little consequence whether a certain quantity of wheat were one shilling or ten shillings in price. The question was altogether one of price; and the state of the currency must determine the point at issue.Mr. Monck
 said, that nine out of ten of the parishioners were dissatisfied with the present state of things in the parish. Even the Select Vestry was not unanimous against the bill, several being in favour of opening the Vestry, and the inspection of the accounts by the parishioners at large. He had no hesitation, in stating, that all the allegations in the petition would be established, in evidence before the committee.Mr. Hume
1409sssl1408ad valorem1407 said, that, differing as he did with the right hon. gentleman, he could not give a silent vote on this occasion. The right hon. gentleman, in denominating this a just and equitable proposition, and. one which the country should receive with thanks, had omitted to show in what respect it bore that character. If the right hon. gentleman meant to say that its merit consisted in legislating for the benefit of one class of the community at the expense of the rest, he would be right. The right hon. gentleman considered the measure as constitutional, and of great importance— constitutional, because it tended to support the aristocracy of this country, which was subject to a limited monarchy. Now, what was he to conclude from this statement? That the aristocracy were, by this bill, to be insured a higher price than they would otherwise obtain, and that this increased price was to come out of the pockets of the poor. This appeared to him to be contrary to all constitutional principles. For what was the constitutional object of government? Was it not to promote the prosperity of the many? But the: right hon. gentleman would convert it into the aggrandisement of the few. The right hon. gentleman said, that if the House did its duty by agreeing to a certain rate of duty, they would have to apprehend that the Lords, as they had differed from them before, might again differ from them now. This, too, appeared to him an unconstitutional mode of legislating, and such as ought not to be allowed. It was true, that a measure, in order to pass into a law, must meet with the concurrence of the other House: but had it not often occurred that the other House, after having differed from the Commons on various points, had been obliged to come round to their views. He had heard with regret the speech of the right hon. gentleman who had introduced this proposition, because it was evident, from every sentiment he had uttered, that the measure was not one of which he approved. He
1409sssl1408ad valorem1407Mr. Hume
1392dslssldslsss observed, that as the fall of prices since July last had taken place under the temporary measure, they had a right to argue that the protection was inadequate. The law had expired on the 1st of May, and what was the average then? Wheat had fallen from 611392dslssldslsssSir T. Lethbridge
l1377 hoped, that the House would suspend its judgment, until both sides had been heard. The affairs of the parish of Mary-le-bone were managed in a way to give general satisfaction; and for fifty or sixty years, the Select Vestry had enjoyed the confidence of the inhabitants, until certain persons assumed the existence of abuses they could not establish. With regard to the bill before the House, the Select Vestry had at first intended to introduce a measure, but abandoning that design, it was taken up by certain inhabitants, who put up notices accordingly, which had been held sufficiently to comply with the Standing Orders of the House. The forms of the House had not, however, been satisfied in the Committee on the bill; since the order of reference required the attendance upon it of four members besides the Chairman; yet the only person present on that occasion, was an hon. alderman opposite (Wood). One member of the Committee had been absent from London during the whole time. The second reading also had been got over in a very extraordinary manner; for, although
l1377Mr. Astell
 declared his approbation of the bonding system, which had been objected to by an hon. member. That system had received the support of Pitt, Fox, and Liverpool. The whole question was, whether goods should be warehoused on this, or on the other side of the water. If they were warehoused abroad, they might, in case of war, be made: available to the purposes of the enemy. It was estimated that the goods warehoused in France last war would: have required one bundled thousand tons of shipping, and six thousand or seven thousand seamen; to transport them to this country. This, it should be observed, might happen, at the moment when the government was called upon to use the utmost exertions to man the navy, and when insurances would be high. He hoped the agriculturists would not be able to defeat the present measure, as they had done that of last year.Mr. Ward
ldsls1387 said, he wished to take an early opportunity of protesting against, this measure. If he had differed from the measure of last session, it was impossible that he should not do the same now. The present measure was so complicated, so much at variance with the principles of commercial legislation, and with the real interests of the country, that it was with the greatest surprise he had heard it proposed; and he felt still more determined to oppose it than he had done to oppose the bill of last session. His right hon. friend had talked of the benefit which was to result from this measure, and of the difference between exclusion by law and exclusion by duty. Now, he did not think that it would be productive of any benefit to the country, and he must say, that he could see no possible difference between an exclusion by law and an exclusion by duty. If corn was excluded, except at high prices, he could see no difference between protection which re-
ldsls1387Mr. W. Whitmore
1391 said, he had heard with pain the resolutions proposed by the right hon. gentleman, especially as he had introduced the name of Mr. Canning, and had described the present measure as the modification to which he had alluded in the House. What Mr. Canning did say on introducing his resolutions in March last, bore a very different interpretation. Mr. Canning had said, that he did not think the resolutions were likely to conciliate ail parties, though the government had paid due regard to their conflicting opinions; but that the balance was in favour of the landed interest. After such an acknowledgment from Mr. Canning was it probable that he would have supported a measure which was still more favourable to the landed interest than that which he had so described? The fact was, that the present ministers, like all other ministers, found it impossible to carry any bill which was opposed by the landed interest. And though he objected strongly to the present measure, he had no hope of being able to carry any measure, or any modification more favourable to the general consumer, than that which was now before the House. An hon. baronet had said, that the landed interests were hardly dealt with, but the arguments on which he relied went upon the assumption that the re-sellers always sold at a profit, which was not borne out by the fact. As a commercial man, and the representative of a commercial town, he objected to the principle, that the landed interest were entitled
1391Mr. Robinson
sssss1388 said, it had always been his opinion, that of all the miseries to which the country could be exposed, the perpetual tampering with the Corn-laws was the most productive of mischief. He trusted, therefore, that before the present session drew to a close, something would be done towards a permanent arrangement upon that subject. He would confess that he was strongly prejudiced in favour of the law as it now stood, because he felt it was the best calculated to give that security to the corn-grower which it was necessary that he should have, because it was less liable to those variations which constituted the great evil of the other
sssss1388Sir T. Gooch
 said, that though the measure before the House applied to the article of wheat alone, it would be unwise to consider it as of small importance to the community. The price of bread, the chief article of life, was at all times a subject of deep interest; and the slightest alteration which was likely to affect that price might be of considerable importance. He was of opinion last year, and he still retained the opinion, that if any alteration was made in the law, it should be one that would make bread cheaper instead of dearer to the whole body of the consumers. It was a fact unfavourable to the operation of the present bill that the price of wheat had fallen since the averages were taken. He did not see why the public should not have the benefit of the lower averages. Was it right that, after a succession of seasons not very remarkable for fertility, the people should be told that bread was too cheap? The hon. gentleman who spoke last did not appear to him to have made a fair use of Mr. Canning's language. He did not remember Mr. Canning to have described the measure of last year as favourable to the landed interest; but he did remember him to have said, that if the House of Commons had a spark of spirit, it would not prostrate itself at the feet of the other House of Parliament. Such a sentiment was worthy of the man by whom it was uttered. For his own part, he was willing to afford protection to the agriculturists, but not greater than to the other classes of the community.Lord Morpeth
 said, that the public opinion in Ireland was not favourable to the introduction of that system. The statement of his hon. friend was calculated to turn away the attention of parliament, from the consideration of the real and practical remedies for Irish grievances.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
1419 said, that his attention had often been directed to this subject, but the only conclusion to which he could come was, that the introduction of the English system of Poor-laws into Ireland would be most injurious to that country. Indeed, he could scarcely imagine any new country, into which the system of Poor-laws that, under various circumstances, had grown up in England, could be planted with safety. Then, the peculiar state of the country should be considered; and, looking to the tendency to an increased population already in Ireland, he should rather think that the
1419Mr. Secretary Peel
l1420ll, after declaring his entire concurrence in the opinions of his right hon. friend, took that occasion to deny that he had ever contemplated removing the unemployed poor to foreign countries; for he could never be brought to think that British colonies were foreign countries. If the poor could not get employment at home, what was to be done with them? Would it be said, that they should be supplied with work and subsistence at the expense of a parliamentary grant? If hon. members would say so, then he would join issue with them on that ground, and contend, that such parliamentary grant would be better spent in taking them to the colonies where there was much land unappropriated, than to expend it on them at home, where they could find neither cheap land nor profitable employment. The attempt to give parliamentary support at home to the unemployed men, women, and children, would cost no less a sum than 300,000l1420llMr. Wilmot Horton
 declined at that moment to enter upon the important subject referred to in the petition. He was not insensible to its importance; but another and more fitting opportunity would arrive for discussing it.Mr. C. Grant
 said, he would very readily accede to the motion, at the same time he feared there might be some difficulty in making out all the returns called for. As to the remarks with which his gallant friend had accompanied that motion, they did full justice to the object of it.Mr. C. Grant
1431 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill "to provide for the Administration of Justice in New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land. The important colonies of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land were now regulated, in what related to the administration of justice, by an act passed in the year 1821. His object, in the first instance, was to provide for the continuance of certain powers contained in that act, which were about to expire; and, in the next, to provide for future alterations in the administration of justice. From the peculiar situation in which the population of those colonies were placed, about two-thirds of the inhabitants having forfeited their civil rights, it was difficult to have the law administered in the manner which prevailed in this country, by means
1431Mr. Secretary Huskisson
sssss14241423sds said, he had to present a petition to the House, and his great respect for the body who had intrusted it to his care, induced him to entreat their patient attention to its important contents. It proceeded from a great national interest—an interest at one time, and he hoped still, a cherished object of the country's favour—one of the principal sources of her maritime strength and commercial prosperity. It was from the West-India planters and merchants of London, and it prayed for a reduction of the tax upon their sugar. He presented the petition to the House, divested of any political expression or feeling, as a plain, argumentative appeal to their impartiality and their justice, founded upon figures which could not err, and facts which could not be denied. The petition described the rise and progress of the sugar duties from 3sssss14241423sdsMr. C. N. Pallmer
 was sorry to say that there was but too much truth in the statement which the hon. member had just made. He hoped, however, that the true remedy was about to be applied to the miseries and evils with which Ireland had been too long afflicted. He could assure the House, that there was an immense desire throughout the Irish population, to learn by their own exertions and labour an honest livelihood. The best proof of this fact was to be found in the constant emigration of the Irish poor to England; a grievance so much and so justly complained of. The true cause of the overpopulation of Ireland, and of all the troubles which ensued from it, was the infinite subdivision of the land; and he could not help saying, that the main spring of the immediate evils which oppressed her was a circumstance to which little or no allusion had been made; namely, the anxious desire of every body who was an Irish land-owner to produce a crop of free-holders of the smallest possible quantity of land.Colonel Trench
1418 presented a petition from the silk
1418Mr. James Grattan
1421 approved of the principle of the Poor-laws, and had always ascribed the evils arising from them to the relaxed administration of them. The introduction of them into Ireland, he would oppose, as tending to produce more permanent destitution in that country than existed there at present; nor could he see what good emigration could do, as he was sure, if a hundred thousand paupers were transported to the colonies to morrow, the gap would be filled up, in a few years, with a hundred thousand more as needy as the former. Before the government adopted any measure of the kind, they ought to inquire into and remedy the grievances of the poor. There were many other remedies for the evils of Ireland. He was sure there would be neither peace nor happiness in Ireland until Catholic emancipation was granted. This should be the foundation of all remedial measures: then the expenses of government ought to be reduced to the lowest possible scale. In fine, he could not see how emigration could cure the evils of England; or the
1421Mr. Calcraft
 said, it was his firm conviction, that the state of England and Scotland, labouring as they now did under what he must call the infliction of Irish emigration, would oblige this country to turn her attention towards the necessity of providing some great measure of relief for Irish pauperism.Mr. Croker
 thought that the evils of Ireland arose from the fact, that her population was a nation of producers, and not of producers and consumers, like that of England. Absenteeism also was another cause. The Poor-laws of England were the sole partition between English comforts and Irish misery. If it were possible to reduce England to the same situation as Ireland now found herself in, the landlords of both countries would become mere exporters, instead of importers and consumers of produce.Mr. Monck
 urged the expediency, if we wanted France to be liberal to us, of not giving such an unfair advantage to the wines of Portugal.Mr. Hume
1422 was of opinion, that the Secretary of State for the Home Department had stated the most unanswerable reasons why it was impossible to extend to Ireland the Poor-laws of England, in any considerable degree. He was quite willing to allow, that much of the evil which had arisen in Ireland, might possibly be owing to the deficiency of Poor-laws in that country. But before parlia-
1422Mr. W. Lamb
 said, he was friendly to free trade, but should like to see foreign countries give us advantages corresponding; with those we yielded them. France and the United States had given us nothing in return for the liberal policy we had exercised towards them.Mr. Robinson
1430l1429 rose for the purpose of moving for several accounts respecting the Foreign Trade of the United Kingdom. The first account was similar to an account that was laid on the table of the House in the last session, on a motion that he had made: it was an account of the importation of a great number of articles of foreign manufactures, and raw materials, in the years 1824 and 1826. These years were taken, because it was in the year 1825 that the customs duties were altered with the professed design of establishing a free trade—and therefore, a comparison of the importations of 1824 with those of 1826, would show the practical effect of the alteration of the duties, and of what is called the Free-trade System. The account he now proposed to move for was of the importations of'1824, 1826, and 1827, for the purpose of showing what the effect of the alteration of the duties had been in 1827. The account which was presented last year proved that the prediction which he had made in 1825, of the effect of the new system, was well founded; namely that no considerable increased importation of foreign manufactures would take place, because the new duties had been fixed so high as to be prohibitory duties. In point of fact there was no other progress made in introducing free trade, except the changing a system of absolute prohibition into a system of prohibitory duties. The country, therefore, still suffers all the injury that belongs to a system of restriction and protection. The immediate evil of this system is the
1430l1429Sir Henry Parnell
1428ll1427l14261425, in rising to bring forward his motion for a Return of the Official Value of Exports to the States of South America, said that he felt some embarrassment, because he had to reply to accusations against those states, which came not from unknown or irresponsible parties, but from those who, by their station, gave; greater weight to the charges they brought. He did so, however, because he was desirous that the South American States should see, that if there were persons who traduced them unjustly, and used harsh: and severe language towards them in this
1428ll1427l14261425Sir Robert Wilson
 thought that the Poor-laws and Poor-rates, if established in Ireland, would be productive of most extensive mischief, and that a very small portion only of the fund would reach the hands of the poor. He should protest against the introduction of them into that country, as the most dreadful visitation, that could be inflicted on it.Sir J. Newport
dsdsddds1432dssdssd said, that in submitting certain resolutions to the committee, for the repeal of the duty on cards and dice, he was induced to take that course from a conviction that the duties on those articles were too severe, and gave rise to much fraud in the manufacture and sale of the articles in question. His object would be to repeal the existing acts, with a view to a reduction of the duties. His motives were, a desire to take away the existing temptations to fraud, to simplify the duties, and to prevent, by the proposed reduction, the surreptitious importation of foreign cards, and the sale of home-made second-hand cards in the shops. The present acts on the subject were found insufficient to protect the public revenue or the public morals. The result of the duties was a fraudulent evasion of the law. In the reign of queen Anne, the first duty, 6dsdsddds1432dssdssdMr. G. Dawson
1433 hailed the measure as a sign of the approaching prevalence of sound principles. As to the effect of this repeal of duties on the public morals, would it not remove the temptations to smuggling and forging? The measure was an excellent one, and he hoped to see the government extending the principle of it to other articles that were subject to high duties. He had no doubt there were establishments all along the coast opposite England, for the express manufacture of every article that was subject to high duty in this country. But those foreign manufacturers ere not to be blamed, but the govern-
1433Mr. Hume
 had no objection to the measure proposed, though he could not help thinking that while the enormous duties on fire insurance existed, the article of cards was an odd one to make the subject of an experiment in the way of a modification of duties; nor could he see how an encouragement to a more general use of cards was calculated to protect the morals of the people.Sir J. Newport
 said, he never was in a more unpleasant situation in his life, than when he had been appointed a nominee. He would throw out, as a suggestion to the right hon. gentleman, whether a convenient substitute for nominees might not be found by resolving, that the committee should choose a chairman, not from among themselves, but from the body of the House.Sir J. Macintosh
1436 entirely concurred in what had fallen from the right hon. mover. In the course of his parliamentary life, he
1436Mr. Bankes
 agreed, that the time was come when these laws ought to be consolidated, and thought the House was under great obligations to his right hon. friend. He was sure that great advantage would result from the measure. The constitution of committees ought to be altered with respect to nominees; and he thought eleven members quite enough for a committee. Besides, it might be necessary that many committees should be appointed, and therefore the more the number of persons in each committee was reduced, the greater provision there would be for committees. At the same time, the loss of the nominees ought to be compensated for by some other means, in order that ability and experience might be ensured to each committee. He thought great inconvenience would result, if the committee was allowed to select a chairman from the body of the House. He wished to suggest to his right hon. friend, whether some person might not be appointed by way of assessor. All he was afraid of was, that if there were only to be thirty-three names, with the power of striking off twenty-two, committees would be appointed which, from their inexperience, would not obtain the confidence of the House.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, his suggestion was, that it should be made imperative on the committee to select a chairman from the body of the House. This would do away with the reflection which the right hon. gentleman had alluded to.Sir J. Macintosh
 thought the constitution of election committees bad. It was bad that their proceedings should be conducted with closed doors. Whatever the strict rule of the House might be, no gentleman would say, that the two Houses of parliament could perform their functions with effect, unless the public were made acquainted with their conduct, and the reasons and principles on which they decided upon public questions. But in a committee up stairs every thing was decided irrevocably, and in the dark; and though it was known what decision they had come to, the reasons of that decision were concealed. He would state one curious fact. A petition had been presented against the return of his hon. friend (Mr. Hume); but there was not the shadow of a case made out on the part of the petitioner, and it was therefore voted unanimously, that the hon. member should not be called upon for a defence: but, when the question that the hon. member should retain his seat came to be decided, four of the committee who had so voted unanimously, voted also, that he should not retain his seat. What possible reason could have actuated these four, it was not for him to divine; but he was sure that no such thing could have occurred if the doors had been open.Mr. S. Rice
 said, that though long speeches might be an inconvenience, the benefit which would result from the doors being open ought not to be left, out of the consideration. Publicity was the true corrective for the evil.Mr. Warburton
1438 thought that every committee should have a person of knowledge and experience to counsel and advise them. A committee,
1438The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1439 said, he had already stated, that in 1825, and consequently long before the protocol was signed by the duke of Wellington at Petersburgh, and long before the treaty of the 6th of July, his majesty's ministers had received an indistinct intimation, that the commander of the Egyptian forces intended to take away the inhabitants of the Morea to serve in Egypt; and before the treaty
1439Mr. Secretary Peel
1440 thought that the honour of the country, no less than the interests of humanity, was implicated in the question; but he was bound to admit, that the observations of the right hon. gentleman were so far satisfactory, that they displayed no want of proper feeling upon the subject. At the same time, he rejoiced that the question which called forth those observations had been asked; and trusted that
1440Sir F. Burdett
 said, there was one point of the speech of the learned member for Knaresborough upon which he must observe, lest he should be supposed to acquiesce in it. The learned member said, that he presumed the "inquiry," of which he (Mr. Peel), in a former address to the House, had spoken, could be nothing else than an inquiry into the best mode of restoring that part of the population recently carried from the Morea to their country. Now, he was not aware that it was possible entirely to go that length. Undoubtedly, if the instructions of government had been strictly complied with, the transportation of those persons would have been prevented. No blame was to be attached to the conduct of our fleet, the physical powers and means of which had been cramped by the battle of Navarino: but the orders, if it had been possible to have executed them fully, were to prevent any movement of the hostile fleet, unless one which should be sanctioned by the English admiral, and of which the object should be to transport the Egyptian forces employed in the Morea back to their own country. As the intelligence at present stood the extent of the spoliation that had been committed was uncertain. Unfortunately, too, those slaves had been landed in Egypt, and sold in the public market. If the ships which contained them had been taken at sea, there could have been no difficulty about their disposal; but now they were probably divided, and the property of private individuals. At present he would go no further than to repeat, that within forty-eight hours after the arrival of the news, the most active inquiry had been entered upon by government, as to all the facts connected with the case. Sufficient information had not yet been received; but the investigation was going on.Mr. Secretary Peel
 inquired when the Report of the Commissioners might be expectedSir F. Burdett
 said, he understood that the report would be ready about the 21st of the month.Mr. Peel
 said, that the commissioners had not been employed so long as six months; and, in addition to an analysis of the water, they had to examine the books and affairs of the water companies. The commissioners were gentlemen of the highest character, and were incapable of being concerned with a disgraceful job.Mr. Peel
 doubted whether any analysis would satisfy the public: a given quantity of water might be perfectly clear, but unless it was drawn from a pure and wholesome source, the inhabitants of the metropolis would never be satisfied.Sir F. Burdett
 said, he had never been convinced of the wisdom of the treaty upon which the learned gentleman had laid so much stress. He called upon ministers rather to revise their course of policy, than allow their feelings to hurry them into a war.Mr. Bright
1437 agreed that nominees ought to be abolished. He had often been a nominee, but he would not plead guilty to all that had been said against them. He did not like the proposition of an assessor. He thought the suggestion of making it imperative on committees to select a chairman from the body of the House was a very proper one. The House and the country would, he was
1437Mr. Calcraft
 agreed in all that had fallen from the right hon. gentleman. He wished to say a word or two on the question of nominees. When the Irish parliament adopted the acts of the English parliament on this subject, they left out the part respecting nominees, and never found that the omission of it caused any difficulty, either from want of information or want of justice.Mr. Croker
 said, he had served as a nominee on the committee to which his hon. friend (sir G. Warrender) had alluded; and so far from that committee having' violated the law, he was sure that its decision was founded on the soundest principles of law. He agreed that nominees ought to be abolished; and thought that if a committee had the benefit of two expert counsel, they would seldom decide wrong.Dr. Phillimore
 thought if the hon. member's plan were adopted, that a little debate would be got up upon every question, however unimportant.Mr. R. Colborne
14351434 said, that, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill to consolidate and amend the laws on the subject of Controverted Elections, he felt it necessary to offer a few observations. The House knew, that it was now fifty-eight years since a Select Committee had been appointed to inquire into those laws, and that since that period ten acts of parliament had been passed on the subject. It was his wish to consolidate all these acts into one. He had prepared the bill, and would state shortly to the House the material alterations which it was the object of that bill to make in the present laws. In the first place, great difficulty and inconvenience had arisen from that part of the law which rendered it necessary that, on the presentment of petitions, the parties should enter into two recognizances; the one, to prosecute the petition, and the other to defray the expenses of its prosecution. It was clear that only one of; these could be necessary; and it was his wish therefore to remove the other. It repeatedly happened under the present laws, that the very clay before the trial of a controverted election was to come on, when the petitioning party had made all the necessary preparations, summoned his witnesses, and brought them to town at a considerable expense, the sitting member declined I to defend his seat. Hence arose a new delay of thirty days, and the witnesses were sent back to the country. It was his intention to give the sitting member fourteen days to decide whether he would defend his seat; and in the event of his; not declaring his intention within fourteen; days after the presentment of the petition, to make him liable for the costs that might have been incurred. He did not think that this, which was merely an act of justice to the petitioner, could be considered as any hardship upon the sitting member. Another reason why this alteration ought to be made was, that supposing the contents of the petition to be substantiated, the sitting member was completely out of court, and a person re-
14351434Mr. Wynn
 thought there ought to be an assessor appointed. A committee of which he was a member had actually overturned a decision of the Court of Session; which decision was afterwards confirmed by the House of Lords.Sir G. Warrender
1441 said, that in 1825 a project had been conceived by Ibrahim Pacha, of carrying off the whole population of the Morea into slavery in Egypt, and re-peopling the country with Arabs. As soon as that intention had been known at St. Petersburgh, a declaration of the strongest character had been issued, stating that the first attempt to execute it would be held to justify the most decided measures on the part of the powers of Europe for its prevention. The abominable outrage by which so many unoffending women and children had been carried into captivity, seemed to be a sort of remains of the project of 1825; and merited the promptest notice by this country. He could not doubt that the inquiry, in which the government was engaged, referred to the most convenient measures for restoring the unhappy victims to their country, and he trusted that every effort would be made, not only to disclaim any acquiescence in such an act on the part of England, but to repair, as far as possible, the consequences of it. With respect to the great general question connected with this subject, he should at present abstain as far as possible from making any comments on it, although it was a topic upon which he and those who thought with him observed silence with difficulty; and how much longer it would be possible for them to persevere in a silence which cost them so great an effort, and which might be liable to misconstruction, it was impossible for him to say. It was a little extraordinary, that, while the other powers, which were parties to the Treaty of London, had declared their intentions plainly, England alone should refuse to speak out. In, France, the full explanation of M. Peyronnet, left no question as to what the policy of that country would be. Russia, in a communication which was substantially official, had avowed to all the world the motives of her policy, and she was at that very moment probably on the eve of executing it. Even the Turks themselves had made known the whole course of fraud and delusion which they had been practising upon all the powers of Europe for a series of years. Under these circumstances, he would, shortly after the recess,
1441Sir J. Mackintosh
 thought that the commission looked very much like a job. That Mr. Telford, Mr. Brande, and Dr. Roget, should have been six months examining whether there was a sufficient supply of water for the town, and whether that water was of a wholesome quality, seemed to him inconceivable.Sir J. Yorke
 said, he felt it his duty to address the House on a subject which deeply concerned, not only the interests of humanity, but the national faith. Official advice had now been received, that—he had heard even seven thousand persons, but certainly—several thousand persons, men, women, and children, had been forcibly taken from the Morea, put on board the Egyptian fleet, and landed at Alexandria, where they had been publicly sold as slaves. The sufferings of these unhappy persons had been highly aggravated, from their having been torn from their country at a moment when the blessings of freedom had just begun to dawn upon it. The right hon. Secretary had, on a former occasion stated, that orders had been issued that none of the non-combatting part of the Greek population should be removed. He would ask then, how it was possible, while such orders existed, that the Egyptian fleet, or rather that remnant of a fleet which had escaped the battle of Navarino, should have been allowed to commit this piracy; for, to tear women and children from their homes and consign them to slavery was the worst of piracy? He wished to ask the right hon. gentleman, whether any official advices had arrived in this country which explained this transaction? He wished, also, to ask the right hon. gentleman whether any measures had been taken by this country, by itself, or in conjunction with its allies, to redeem these unfortunate persons from their bondage? This reparation, at least, was due to Greece, which had a right, under the treaty of the 6th of July, to claim the protection of the allied powers from wrongs like these, and all the relief that could be afforded them when the infliction of such wrongs had been allowed.Sir R. Wilson
1449 said, that with respect to the question of fees generally, he would only remark, that the propositions of his hon. friend applied to the principle on which fees were taken on all private matters brought before that House, and he thought it would be well for the House, before it acquiesced in
1449The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was exceedingly unfair, that any portion of the expense attendant on the furtherance of public business should be defrayed out of fees paid by private individuals. The House was not perhaps aware, that there was no charge for engrossing public bills; the whole expense was charged on private bills. Why such a system should be adopted he knew not. Certainly it was very unjust.Mr. R. Gordon
 could not see how any resolutions of that House could effect the object contemplated by the hon. member for Staffordshire; since the fees complained of might, and most probably would, still be exacted in the other House. The best way to remedy the evil would be by the introduction of a bill.Mr. Baring
1450 could not conceive, even if the Lords did not choose to give up those fees, why the Commons should abstain from taking a step that would be satisfactory to the country. It was very probable, if the Commons agreed to the
1450Mr. Littleton
l.1448l.s.l.s.,l.s.,l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.,1447l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,1446 said, he rose to submit to the House
l.1448l.s.l.s.,l.s.,l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.,1447l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.,1446Mr. Littleton
 complained that the existing system pressed very heavily on Scotland. In some instances the whole income of a Turnpike trust was swallowed up in procuring the renewal of a bill.Mr. H. Drummond
 expressed his approbation of the resolutions. It appeared to him that Turnpike-bills, though treated as private bills, were, in fact, bills of a public nature.Sir T. Lethbridge
 approved of the principle of the resolutions, and quoted an instance where a very important road in the western part of Sussex was obliged to be neglected, in consequence of the great expense that would be incurred in procuring a bill to alter the provisions of the act now in being.Sir C. Burrell
prœmunire1521 rose to present a Petition from certain Protestant inhabitants of the county of Cavan, praying that parliament would grant no further concessions to the Roman Catholics. The petitioners said, that while they were opposed to that species of emancipation which the Roman Catholics claimed as a right, they were willing to assist them in procuring the only emancipation which would be really serviceable, to them; namely, emancipation from the trammels of a factious and disloyal priesthood, who disseminated principles that were injurious to their flocks. The petitioners expressed their conviction, that to grant political power to the Roman Catholics; would be fraught with mischief to the Protestant establishment of this country. The petitioners, seeing that the Roman Catholics had changed their tone from supplication to threats and intimidation, put it to the House whether persons who thus endeavoured to effect their object by terror and menace were entitled to favourable consideration. The petitioners, further observed, that the existence of the Catholic rent, which was enforced by a bigotted and disloyal priesthood throughout the country, was calculated greatly to alarm the Protestants of Ireland. The organization of simultaneous meetings in every part of Ireland; the measures of threat and intimidation to which the Roman Catholics had resorted; together with the seditious and insulting language which on every occasion was vented against the Protestant establishment at the Catholic Association, induced the petitioners to make this appeal to the wisdom of parliament, to curb the proceedings of that Association, whose existence they considered incompatible with the Protestant ascendancy in Ireland. They therefore, under all the circumstances, prayed that no farther concessions should be made to the Roman Catholic body. He agreed in the propriety of the prayer of the petition; But before he brought it up, he wished to put a question to the Home Secretary. During the recess, reports had gone abroad that negotiations had been entered into
prœmunire1521Mr. H. Maxwell
 said, he never heard of these reports until the other day, and could assure the hon. member that there was not the slightest foundation for them.Mr. Secretary Peel
1545 said, he agreed in all that had been offered with respect to the vast importance of this subject. He agreed also, that it was highly desirable that government should form a decided opinion upon it; but, unfortunately, it was one of those subjects which the more it was studied, the more difficult it was to come to a positive conclusion. It was in vain to call upon government to pronounce a decided opinion; for it was impossible for any man who had a proper diffidence of his own judgment to come to one. He could not think that the want of employment for the people of this country arose from any cessation of productiveness; for within the three last years there had been a greater quantity both of agricultural and manufacturing employment, than in any other three preceding years in the history of this country. How, then, were the increased rates to be accounted for? Did it arise from the operation of the Poor-laws? If so, how came it that in Ireland, where no Poor-laws existed, they were much worse off? In Scotland there was an intermediate system between that of England and Ireland; but there also there was distress, though not great. His impression was, that no effectual remedy could be applied in the present artificial state of the country. Much of the distress arose from the improvement of machinery, and what remedy, he would ask, could be applied against the progress of human enterprise and ingenuity? He was prepared to give his assent to the bill, but he thought it was necessary to consider its bearing upon other regulations connected with the same subject. He thought the law of settlement was intimately connected with the provisions of the bill. Many of the evils of the Poor-laws proceeded from the law of settlement; but that only shewed the difficulty of laying down any laws which might be applicable to all conditions of society. If the provisions of the bill were carried into effect, he was convinced it would be necessary to make considerable alterations in that law. The House could not pass the two measures simultaneously, without considering the bearing of one upon the other. The hon. mover had said a great deal on the abstract principle; but looking
1545Mr. Secretary Peel
1546 regretted to hear the right hon. gentleman express his opinion, that there was no remedy for evils which were likely to absorb the prosperity of the country, and overturn its institutions. Certainly, if government would not take up the subject, nothing effectual could be accomplished; for as to any gentleman attempting to bring in any measure without the assistance of government, such was the magnitude of the question, that it was beyond the grasp of any individual. He thought the right hon. gentleman had taken a wrong view of it, when he stated it to be his opinion, that the two measures could not pass together. There was no difference in their principle. Nothing, indeed, could more usefully co-operate with the plan of the hon. mover for the amelioration of the condition of the poor, than an alteration of the law of Settlement. The right hon. gentleman asked, whether it was not a great hardship to refuse a pauper relief, and at the same time prevent him from carrying his labour to the best market? This was altogether a mistake. It was at present that the labourer was prevented from obtaining employment; because, under the existing law, the farmer was afraid, by employing him, of giving him a settlement. The man was thus driven back to his own parish; but if the farmer knew that by giving him labour, he did
1546Colonel Davies
 said, it was not his intention to press the bill through the House this session.Mr. Slaney
1547 said, he admitted that great evils existed, in different parts of the country, from a redundant population; but he believed there was by no means throughout Great Britain, such a redundancy as the right hon. gentleman had stated. There always would be a certain pressure on the means of subsistence, which it would be impossible to prevent by any system of laws that could be framed. This pressure was very general in this country, but there was not that great degree of distress among the labouring classes which some gentlemen assumed. No one lamented the distress that actually did exist more than himself. It had arisen, in a great measure, from the causes stated by the hon. member for Reading. The system commenced in the county of Norfolk; and when it originated, Mr. Burke had pointed out the evils that would ensue from it. To that cause he chiefly attributed the distress of the labouring
1547Mr. Whitmore
15521551l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l155015491548 rose, to move for leave to bring in a Bill "to enable Parishes in England, under given regulations, and for a limited period, to mortgage their Poor-rates, for the purpose of assisting Voluntary Emigration." His hon. friend, who had just addressed the House, had stated, that a measure of
15521551l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l155015491548Mr. Wilmot Horton
l.l.l.l. bore testimony to the great industry and zeal of the right hon. gentleman, but could not concur in the reasoning upon which his motion was founded. The right hon. gentleman assumed that, if 1,200,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Warburton
1553 said, that he had not merely doubts, but an entire conviction that the plan proposed by the right
1553Mr. Alderman Waithman
1555data1554 said, he was at a loss to know on what ground the hon. alderman expressed his surprise, that whilst Ireland exported the articles which he had mentioned, a portion of her population was reduced to great distress. It was not new, surely, in the science of political economy, that a portion of a community should have an excess of production which they might export or dispose of as they thought proper, and that another portion of that same community should be, notwithstanding that excess, or even a sufficiency, brought to a state of suffering from want of proper sustentation. The subject before the House was surrounded by a difficulty which attended another subject which had been discussed that evening; namely, that as the poor-laws were passed at different times, laws which were applicable at one period were not applicable at another. This was no less true with respect to emigration: it might be suited to some times and places, and be quite unsuited to others. For instance, some time ago, when distress prevailed amongst the manufacturers of Glasgow and other places in Scotland, and
1555data1554Mr. Secretary Huskisson
1540ll153915381537ll153615351534in loco parentisThe parish is bound to maintain us.""Hang sorrow, cast away care,1533153215311530ssssssssssssssssssssssss1529lsssl.l152815271526l.l.l.ll1525l152415231522 rose to bring forward the motion, of which he had given notice, respecting the necessity of an inquiry into the state of the Poor-laws; and, in doing so, he could not avoid remarking on the very limited attendance of members on the occasion—a circumstance which he attributed, not so much to their want of interest for the subject in general, as to the claims of more important avocations on their time. He, however, was prepared on his side to perform the duty which he had assigned to himself. He felt it would be impossible for him to bring before the House the subject of his motion in a manner capable of exciting a due degree of attention, without trespassing on their time to an extent which otherwise he
1540ll153915381537ll153615351534in loco parentisThe parish is bound to maintain us.""Hang sorrow, cast away care,1533153215311530ssssssssssssssssssssssss1529lsssl.l152815271526l.l.l.ll1525l152415231522Mr. Slaney
 seconded the motion, and said, that he concurred with the principle of the bill, but objected to part of its proposed machinery.Mr. N. Calvert
1541 said, that although he admitted the hon. mover had displayed considerable information in his address to the House, and was entitled to their thanks for the pains he had taken in investigating this difficult, subject, he entertained considerable apprehensions that no practical benefit would result from the bill proposed. If no regard were to be had, in the estimate of the claim of the poor, to the number of the individuals in their respective families, and the quantity of labour to be shared amongst those who were in want of employment, of what avail was any bill for that purpose? The remedy, in his mind, consisted in judicious arrangements by gentlemen in the country themselves, and could only be effected by applying their attention to the appropriation of the funds for the relief of the poor in their several parishes. It was in vain to attempt to draw the line as to the artificial distinction of able-bodied and other paupers. If the means of subsistence were withheld from the former during periods of scarcity, they would within a short time become of the latter class, and be strictly entitled to parochial relief. Even charitable donations or foundations were of no avail in stopping
1541Mr. Cripps
1556 said, he thought that much credit was due to the right hon. gentleman, for the perseverance with which he had applied himself to the removal of that which was certainly a great evil, namely, excessive population. To the principle of enabling the parishes to borrow money on the poor-rates, he decidedly objected. He believed that, by a small expense on the part of the government, a number of emigrants might be advantageously located in Canada. He had no doubt, that with some assistance, the gentlemen and farmers, in many parts of the country, would associate to send out the redundant poor; and that many persons might thus be sent out without the present bill, the principle of which, even if not dangerous, was, at least, alarming to the agricultural population. This, however, should be moderately done; for if pushed to a great extent, the machinery would become clogged, and would not work. The emigrating principle was not suitable to the manufacturing districts; it was suitable only to the agricultural parts of the country; to the men
1556Mr. Baring
l.1557l. said, that the hon. gentleman had expressed so exactly the sentiments which he had always entertained on the subject of emigration, that it would be unnecessary for him to occupy the House for many minutes. He had always thought that emigration was an important consideration to a country like this, which had certainly a superabundant population, and at the same time possessed colonies of large extent and fertile soil. To such a country, so situated, good sense and prudence pointed out that encouragement ought to be given to voluntary emigration. It appeared by the evidence that a pauper, to whom 60l.1557l.Mr. Secretary Peel
1542 said, he was disposed to agree most cordially with the hon. member for Hertford, that there was not much to be expected from the bill, in the way of general relief, although he concurred in the principles upon which it proceeded. As long as there was no restoration of the proportions between the two classes of society, and as long as they told the poor man that he had a right by
1542Mr. Wilmot Horton
 entered into a variety of details respecting the operation of the Poor-laws, and their effects in producing, on the part of the farmers, a particular selection of labourers. He then adverted to the mode of their administration in the country with which he was more immediately connected, and expressed his conviction, that the remedy proposed would, upon trial, by no means prove adequate. He should not oppose the hon. member's proposition, although he did not think that any legislative enactment would have the effect he proposed.Mr. Portman
 was favourable to the principle of emigration, but thought it would be highly injurious to introduce the funding system into our parishes. A bad principle had already been established; namely, that of making up the wages of labourers out of the poor-rates. If to that evil, the mortgaging of the rates were to be added, the consequences would be of the most ruinous description.Mr. Calcraft
1544 thought the House ought to recollect that it was not the free institutions, but the happy and prosperous condition of its people, which gave a character to a nation. A good deal had been said about the redundancy of population being one of the effects of the Poor-laws; but the condition of Ireland, labouring under the same redundancy without any Poor-laws, shewed that the opinion was founded in fallacy. Ireland, without any Poor-laws, presented the spectacle of the most numerous, increasing, and deplorably wretched population on the face of the earth. After some observations in condemnation of the system of paying labourers out of the Poor-rates, which, he said, took its rise in his county, from a recommendation of the magistrates to avoid any rise in wages, lest they might find a difficulty in lowering them again, the hon. member observed, that the pay tables then invented had given rise to all the miseries which the paupers had since suffered. The moment the harvest was over, the farmer reduced the wages to eight shillings, then to seven, and so on until every labourer in the parish became a pauper. A man, too, who had a wife and two children, found himself in no worse condition than a single man. He had bread and water, the liberal allowance of the parish, as a single man; and he had bread and water as a married man; so that the system gave no discouragement to the increase of the number of paupers. If they refused relief to all able-bodied men, they would give an increase to mendicity; for if a man could not get work, there was no law which could compel him to abstain from asking relief; and they would thus cure one evil by increasing another. The only remedy for all this was, in his opinion, the adoption of a minimum of wages: and that might, perhaps, produce a minimum of wretchedness. He would give every man the price of a bushel of wheat, and that would afford him all the comforts of life. If he married then, knowing the amount of his wages, he married at his own peril. It was a law of nature, that the single man should be better off than the married man; but we reversed that law, and made the single
1544Mr. Monck
 said, he had always been an advocate for voluntary emigration, but objected to the advance of money by the government for the encouragement of it. If there was any one thing which more than another would render emigration objectionable, it was a mortgage like that now proposed. He considered this ten times worse than an advance of public, money. They had already seen the mischiefs which resulted from anticipating our resources: if this measure were adopted, it would place the whole of the landed proprietors in the same condition as the country was placed from the same cause. The measure was not voluntary but coercive; seeing that four fifths bound the rest. If emigration were to be coercive, he objected to it; and if not, they did not want any act upon the subject.Mr. Hume
1543 condemned the system of paying labourers out of the poor-rates. The hon. mover professed by the bill to give employment to none of the able-bodied men who did not comply with certain conditions; but he ought to recollect, that if an able-bodied man were refused relief, in forty eight hours he became weak and helpless. He believed that all regulations of this kind must be left to the discretion of those who were called upon to administer their provisions. He apprehended, too, that the hon. gentleman's bill could not be carried into effect without some alteration of the law of Settlement. If they took away from
1543Mr. Ridley Colborne
 doubted whether the proposed measure would prove of utility. There was one proposal, however, of the hon. member, which, he thought he would find it impossible to carry into effect. He alluded to that by which unmarried men were to lay up, or to have laid up for them, a fund saved from their labours when employed, from which they were to be supplied when unemployed. Now, it would be impossible for the labourer to lay up money, if, as he feared was the case, he never at any time earned more than enough to keep himself. Indeed, he saw no prospect of relief from the evil which oppressed them, except in emigration. When that was begun, the agricultural parishes could take care that the vacancies that were made should not again be filled up. If so extreme a measure became necessary, he should not hesitate, when emigration was begun, to pull down the cottages, as fast as they became empty.Mr. Burrell
 said, that conceiving, as he did that all those acts which prevented any intercourse between this government and the see of Rome were injurious to the country, he would, on the 13th of May, move for leave to bring in a bill for their repeal.Sir J. Newport
 said, that a friend of his, a Mr. Sinclair, had a brother who, after residing many Years in India, died without a will. This registrar, who took possession of his property, which amounted to ten thousand pagodas, died insolvent, and his friend had never been able to obtain redress, tie petitioned the Board of Control, who referred him to the East India Company; but they told him that Mr. Ricketts was no officer of theirs, but was appointed by the King's Court at Madras. It was extremely hard that people should thus be deprived of their property, without any fault or neglect of their own. In his opinion, the persons concerned in these two cases had, by every consideration of law, equity, and liberality, a claim upon the East India Company.Mr. Denison
 protested against the supposition, that the petitioner supposing his case to be made out, could have any claim upon the government. If it were found that any thing was due to him, the payment must come out of the territorial revenues.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.1565 said, that at a future day he should move two instructions to the committee. The first would be, that the committee should introduce a clause into the bill, extending the trial by jury to criminal and civil cases in the Colony; and the second, that a clause should be received, providing the election of a cer-
l.1565Sir J. Mackintosh
 doubted whether the colony was yet in a state to profit by those institutions which the learned member proposed, though there could be no doubt that, as soon as it was in such a state, it ought to receive them.Mr. N. Calvert
 said, that the regulations with respect to bankruptcy and insolvency were omitted in the bill, because he thought the colonial legislature better calculated to regulate those subjects than the House of Commons. His great object had been to meddle as little with details as possible, which were always much better arranged upon the spot. As to the trial by jury, the system had been tried in quarter sessions, and, from the peculiar state of society in that country, found altogether inapplicable. The time was not yet come in which the machinery of that valuable institution could be extended to New South Wales with effect; and to attempt to introduce it would only be to destroy a system which was suited to circumstances, and practically worked well already. No person could be better inclined than he was to give the colony the advantage of every institution which the mother-country possessed; but by attempting to go too fast at first, the progress of the good work would be retarded.Mr. Huskisson
1566 complained that the bill threw too much power into the hands of the Crown and of the privy council, and needlessly limited the other branches of the legislature in their power of interference. There were certain provisions, too, in it, to which he particularly objected; and amongst others, to that which took away the present Court of Appeal, and enacted that all appeals should be direct to the privy council in England. He particularly
1566Mr. Bright
 said, that the present measure would not take from the House of Commons the power of future legislation on the subject. As to the intermediate appeal, at the present moment, there was a supreme court of Law in the colony, consisting of barristers of a certain standing, appointed for the purpose of administering the English law. From their decision there was an appeal to the military governor, who could not be supposed to be well acquainted with the principles of law. If his decision confirmed the judgment of the court it would be unnecessary: but if he reversed it, no person would consider that full justice was done, and therefore that absurd practice was to be put an end to, and the appeal would lie in the usual way of appeals from the colonies to this country.Mr. Huskisson
 agreed that it would be desirable to make the measure a temporary one. The colony of New South Wales must be considered in a double light: first, as a penal colony, and then as a colony of increasing wealth and importance, and which ought to be dealt with as a society of free, unpolluted men, of course not subject to that peculiar legislation which befitted a penal colony, Such were the present advantages of the colony, that he had seen many letters from, persons, who had been transported thither, inviting their friends in this country to join them. It is evident that the time must come when New South Wales could no longer be considered as a penal colony, and, therefore, when the whole course of government and legislation with respect to it, must undergo a change. It was on that account that he wished the measure to be a temporary one, in order that a more enlarged and liberal course might in future be taken.Mr. Spring Rice
1567 said, it was a mockery to hold out that colony as a place of punishment, seeing that the convicts wrote to their friends to leave no means untried,
1567Colonel Davies
 said, that nothing could be more erroneous than the belief that the present state of the convicts in New South Wales was such that they no longer considered it a place of punishment. The very reverse was the fact. So far were the convicts from wishing to induce their friends in this country to qualify themselves for being sent out, by the commission of crime, that their letters were filled with complaints of their altered condition, and of the severity of their treatment. Their condition might have been different before the establishment of the internal secondary punishment.Mr. Wilmot Horton
habeas corpushabeas corpus1569l.l.1568toto cœlo expressed his satisfaction at finding that the inhabitants of New South Wales were, in the estimation of government, so improved in morals and good conduct as to be deemed worthy of being intrusted with such political privileges as were proposed in the bill. He trusted the new council would restrain those acts of arbitrary power which had too generally characterized the conduct of the governors of our distant colonies; and he hoped that this measure was the commencement of a new and improved system of colonial legislation. He would, however, call the attention of the House to the state of our other foreign possessions, and put in a claim to their being admitted to similar political privileges. The colony of Trinidad had been specially reserved as a field of experimental legislation, and though it certainly was intended to apply merely to the point of the melioration of the slave population, yet that unfortunate colony had been subjected to every possible species of experiment. English governors and judges had been sent out to execute and administer Spanish laws without any previous knowledge of the Spanish language. Orders in council had been issued to adapt English laws to Spanish jurisprudence, and such confusion existed, that on the examination of the two judges before the commissioners of legal inquiry, they differed habeas corpushabeas corpus1569l.l.1568toto cœloMr. Marryat
 observed, that there was no proof that the Roman Catholic suffered by the law as it now stood. Before he could admit that, he must see it proved that the Catholic was assessed higher than his Protestant neighbour.The Attorney-general
1571 said, that if the subject had been agitated earlier, he was convinced the bill would never have proceeded so far as it had done. No man could be more averse to imposing taxes upon Catholics heavier than upon Protestants; but he would maintain, that with respect to the Land-tax, they laboured under a very slight grievance. In 1794, relief was given to Catholics doubly assessed, and it was continued to them by the bill of 1798, which made the Land-tax perpetual. It was to be supposed that
1571The Solicitor-general
 did not think the Company liable for the actions of an officer whom they had not appointed. The more the case was looked into, the more clearly it would appear, that the Company were not liable for the misdeeds of an officer over whom they had no control.Mr. Lindsay
 said, he could not, consistently with the instructions of those whose wishes he expressed, accede to the proposition made by the learned member. He would rather hope that, on some future day, the government would have a better opportunity of turning their attention to the subject, and would be satisfied that what he asked for was founded in reason and justice. He did not think, therefore, that he should at present press the matter further. He would, however, consult his friends, and, in the meantime, move that the bill be engrossed, and read a third time on Monday se'nnight.Mr. G. Bankes
1570 observed, that the remark of his learned friend came at a very late period of the bill, and it was one which he did not expect from him, seeing that he had before assented to the principle of
1570Mr. G. Bankes
 contended, that the money having been lodged in the hand of the Company's own treasurer, this was an appeal to something more than to their liberality. The attention of the Commons of England had been called to a gross wrong, and he hoped that the appeal which had been made to the feelings of the Company would not be lost upon them.Mr. L. Foster
 observed, that in speaking of this case, he would say, as he had said upon another which had been referred to a committee, that where there was a wrong for which there was no remedy, the proper course was to appeal to that House. He was therefore glad that the subject had been brought before them.Mr. Courtenay
1564l. said, that the deficiencies of Mr. Ricketts amounted to 40,0001564l.Mr. Wynn
 said, that according, to the latest returns, the total amount of the population was but forty-nine thousand, and of that number eighteen thousand only were free settlers, the rest having forfeited their civil rights in this country, and being sent there as a punishment. He thought that this fact would not fail to have weight with the House, when it came to consider, whether it would be prudent to grant these two great benefits to the colonies. When an opportunity should occur, he would state to the House the reasons that induced him to think, that, instead of such a concession being a blessing to those colonies at present, it would operate to their disadvantage.Mr. Huskisson
 said, if it could be shown that there had been the slightest neglect on the part of any of the officers of the Company, then it was quite clear that the petitioner had a fair and equitable claim.Mr. Trant
15631562l.1561 said, he held in his hand a petition containing the application of a private individual for redress. It was the petition of Miles O'Reilly, of Dublin, who had lost a large sum of money, in consequence of certain transactions which occurred at Madras; and he conceived he had a right, in fairness and in conscience, to claim a reparation from the directors of the East-India Company. Mr. O'Reilly had put this petition into his hands several years ago; and he had then told him, that his best course would be, to endeavour to procure redress by quiet and peaceable means. In consequence of that recommendation, he had succeeded in keeping Mr. O'Reilly from having the petition presented for three or four years; and he had done so from a hope, which was not yet extinguished, that the Court of Directors would, in that spirit of justice and fairness which characterized their conduct, attend to the claim of the petitioner. But as that body, no doubt from a sense of public duty, had refused to interfere, all he could do was to lay the petition before the House; and he hoped that the statement contained in it, and the discussion upon it, might have the effect of convincing the high and honourable men to whom one very important branch of the public interest was intrusted, that there was, in this instance, if not a legal at least an equitable claim on them, to pay to Mr. O'Reilly, out of the funds of the company, the sum of which he had been deprived. There was, in a statute passed in the 39th and 40th of the late king, a clause which directed the registrar of the king's court to sue out letters of administration, when any person residing in the presidency happened to die intestate. That clause was intended, and, he believed, had the effect of preventing property thus left from suffering that havoc and destruction, with which it might otherwise be visited; since it was placed in the hands of those whose duty it was to take care of it, and to see that it was given up to the right owners. But when the property of individuals was thus, by a legal enactment, taken out of that course and channel in which otherwise it would naturally flow,—when the care of private money was intrusted to a public officer, —then, not only that public officer, but all the agents of the government by whom he was appointed, were bound to
15631562l.1561Sir J. Mackintosh
l.l. said, he held in his hand a petition from the gentry, merchants, tradesmen, &c. of the colony of New South Wales, agreed to at a meeting called by the sheriff, and sanctioned by the government of that country. The prayer of the petition was, for popular representation, and for trial by jury. He had been informed by persons well acquainted with the subject, that the two Australian colonies embraced a population of from fifty-five to sixty-thousand persons, of which number, from thirty-five to forty-thousand were free settlers. The amount of the revenue derived by government from these persons was 60,000l.l.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, he felt some delicacy in answering the question, because he might appear to be saying more in praise of his noble relation than he should wish to say. But the fact was, that the church burial ground being small and inadequate for so large a parish, he had made the parish a present of a piece of ground sufficient for a burial place.Lord Clive
sl1611 said, he had a petition to present from Ludlow, complaining that the Corporation of that borough had devoted the funds, which ought to have been appropriated to the improvement of the town, to the payment of the expenses which the corporation had incurred in legal proceedings. No doubt this was highly improper conduct, and ought to be inquired into. But the petitioners also prayed, that the House would inquire into certain proceedings in the House of Lords, offering to prove at the bar of the; House that, in a cause in which the petitioners and the corporation had been concerned, and which came before the House of Lords, the earl of Powis, who was the recorder of the borough, had interfered in l an unconstitutional manner; and that lord Redesdale, who decided the case, had been previously consulted upon the proceedings. The petitioners stated, that the burial ground at Ludlow being in so crowded a state, that as often as a corpse was interred, the disgusting spectacle of bodies only partly decomposed presented itself, they applied to the corporation for another; burial-ground, but that the corporate body paid no attention to their application. That, on inquiry, they found that some years ago one Charles Fox had left the corporation, in trust, a chapel and a burial-ground, and that, instead of fulfilling the duties of the trust, they had I pulled the chapel down, and let the burial-
sl1611Sir F. Burdett
 said, that his noble relation (lord Powis) would be most anxious that no opposition should be made to the inquiry. He would state shortly the origin of this petition. The corporation of Ludlow had very imprudently accepted this trust of a ruinous chapel, which, after it had been the cause of great expense, they pulled down. The corporation had pulled it down as a matter of security; as it had twenty years before been presented as in a ruinous state. Undoubtedly, the Vice-chancellor and other judges had decided in favour of the petitioners; but sir A. Hart, conceiving that the case did not come under sir S. Romilly's act, advised the appeal to the House of Lords. Upon this advice, the recorder thought it necessary to ask lord Redesdale if it was a proper case to be appealed, and his lordship's advice was similar to that of sir A. Hart. The case was submitted to lord Gifford, to the present lord Chancellor, and Attorney-general, and the opinion of all was, that sir T. Plomer and lord Eldon had misapprehended sir S. Romilly's act. He hoped the subject would be strictly investigated, for he was sure that he should be able to prove that the proceedings of the corporation, to which he had the honour to belong, had been what they ought to be; and that there was not the slightest foundation for the imputation of corruption. From all the circumstances connected with the petition, he could not help suspecting that the signatures had been obtained either by the agent or the gamekeeper of a gentleman who had petitioned against the last return for Ludlow.Lord Clive
 acquiesced in the opinion of the hon. member for Aberdeen.Mr. Peel
 said, he could not help thinking, that if injustice had been committed in the manner described by the petitioners, there ought to be a remedy for it. He would, however, follow the course that had been suggested.Sir F. Burdett
 hoped the hon. baronet would persevere in an inquiry, than which nothing could be more satisfactory to himself and his noble relation.Lord Clive
 said, he would certainly do his best to give satisfaction to both parties. He was not aware when he undertook to present the petition that he should be drawn into a position of so much responsibility.Sir F. Burdett
1613 said, he had been requested to present some petitions which were of considerable importance. They related to the state of Anatomical Science in this country. The first was from the president and council of the Royal College of Surgeons. The petition was signed by sir W. Blizard, Mr. Abernethy, sir A. Cooper, and many other gentlemen of eminence in the profession. They stated, that they had pursued every means which the law allowed to procure anatomical subjects; that many were obliged to resort to France to learn a science so necessary to medicine; that the structure of the human body could not be learned by models; that the law required a man to possess a certain portion of information in his profession, and that they were liable to legal prosecution for
1613Mr. Secretary Peel
1619ssss said, he was ready to do justice to the character of the petitioners, and to the eloquent manner in which their case was introduced; but without now going into the general question, he would observe, that that which the hon. member who introduced the petition had only indirectly glanced at was broadly stated by the hon. gentleman who last addressed the House. The principle which that hon. member advocated was, that a general act should be passed regulating the rate of wages in the several manufacturing districts; that was, that the principle of the Spitalfields' act, which had been very properly repealed, should be revised, and made applicable to all the manufacturing districts. If this were not conceded to them, they asked that there should be an abolition of all monopolies, a free trade in corn and other necessary articles, a reduction of taxes and pensions, and other matters which would embrace a very wide field of inquiry. Now, he could see no necessary connexion between the two prayers of the petition. It did not follow that because there was not a free trade in corn and other articles, and a reduction of taxation, that there should be an act for regulating wages. For the sake of the petitioners themselves, he should deprecate any such measure; for he was sure it would be found to injure them to a very considerable extent, and he was surprised ! that the experience of the Spitalfields measure did not show them the evil consequences of establishing a fixed rate of wages. One effect of that law in Spitalfields was to drive a great part of the trade from that district to other parts of the country. He was surprised it was not thought of, that the proposed general measure would have the same effect on the kingdom, with reference to other countries, which the Spitalfields act had on that district, as compared with other manufacturing places. But the fact was, that the silk trade, at present, was not in such a state of depression as to require legislative interference. Four or five years ago, a man might earn from 251619ssssMr. C. Grant
1620sss very much doubted whether the silk trade had improved generally, although in some descriptions of articles it might have done so. The very statement of the right hon. gentleman, that the workmen who, four or five years ago, could make 301620sssMr. Alderman Waithman
l1621 rose to oppose the resolution. The object of it was to declare, that henceforth no fees should be paid on the renewal of turnpike
l1621The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he could not accede to the amendment, because it could never produce the effect contemplated by the original proposition. There was scarcely an instance of a bill being introduced to renew another, without possessing a clause which suggested or provided for the improvement of the line of road; and yet, if the House adopted the amendment, any such provisions would render the bill liable to the payment, of fees, although every one must admit that these were improvements in which the public at large were as much interested as the trustees of the road,Mr. Littleton
 admitted that it would be extremely improper to check the progress of improvement by rendering bills of this nature liable to the payment of fees.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 said, there existed a necessity for a denned table of fees, payable on bills introduced to renew turnpike acts, in order to prevent the recurrence of instances of enormous expense.Mr. Cripps
 agreed, that bills for the renewal or the regulation of Turnpike bills, if they effected no material alteration in the nature of their enactment, ought not to be liable to the payment of fees. Turnpike bills were a great public benefit, and distinguishable in their nature from private property. It was therefore no violent proposal that they should be included in those regulations which the House was in the habit of extending to public measures. The resolution of his hon. friend would be a great improvement, and could be attended with no inconvenience.Sir J. Mackintosh
l thought it would be a great advantage if turnpike road bills were considered as public bills. The roads were not for the accommodation of those through whose estates they were made, but for that of the public in general. He thought the process of engrossing might be dispensed with, in cases of simple renewal; which would be a saying of 20lMr. R. Gordon
 was willing to admit, that if, upon investigation, it should appear that the amount of fees taken on turnpike bills was unreasonable, a reduction should take place. But the House should pause when they came to consider whether the expense should be defrayed as a local burthen or transferred to the public. For his own part, he was disposed to think, that it would be better to continue them on the present plan; for, if transferred to the public, there was reason to apprehend that there would be less vigilance exercised in watching their progress, and scrutinizing their necessity, than if conducted upon the principle of local charges. Nothing could be more a public benefit than the prosecution of offenders, and yet the expenses incurred under this head fell upon the local districts in which they took place. Far these reasons he would vote against the resolution.Mr. Secretary Peel
 considered turnpike bilk not as private but as public benefits, and consequently unfit subjects for taxation.Mr. Wynn
 concurred in the opinion, that the fees on the renewal of such trusts should be considerably reduced; but the great expense of such bills did not arise in that House, but consisted in the charges of solicitors and agents. He was willing that the fees should be regulated, but not that the charge should be transferred to the public.Mr. Bankes
 said, that the real question was not whether these bills should be exempted from the same charges as other bills, but whether they should not be put on an equality with other private bills. In other bills the tax was paid once, and for all; but Turnpike bills were obliged to be renewed every twenty-one years, when the same charges must be paid as on their first introduction.Sir T. Acland
 said, that the silk manufacturers at present enjoyed a protection amounting to thirty per cent on manufactured goods. Under these circumstances it was not right to accuse government of sacrificing the manufacturing interest.Mr. F. Lewis
 denied that the petitioners asked parliament to regulate the rate of wages. AH that they wished was that a committee, composed of the employed and the employers, might be enabled from time to time to make such arrangements, as circumstances might require. If such a plan were practicable, it might prove very beneficial; and it would at least remove a cause of discontent from the minds of thousands of human beings.Mr. A. Dawson
 expressed his regret that the government appeared disposed to sacrifice the manufacturing interest in order to advantage those who benefitted by the monopoly of the com trade.Mr. D. W. Harvey
161716161615 begged to call the attention of the House to a petition in every way deserving it, not only because it was signed by nearly twenty thousand persons engaged in the pursuit which gave employment to the artisan and revenue to the state, but as it involved principles of acknowledged importance, and which were daily pressing on the attention of the statesman, the philosopher, and the economist. He felt, moreover, peculiarly gratified in being the selected medium of communicating to the House the sentiments and feelings of so large and valuable a portion of his fellow-citizens, who might be considered as representing the claims of every class of men, under whatever denomination, who subsisted by their industry, and whose property was their labour. Unconnected with either of those great and conflicting interests whose struggles for ascendancy embarrassed the government and prejudiced the people, he had a steady and straight-forward course to pursue, and from which no inducement should divert him—that of standing up at all times, and under all circumstances, as the unflinching advocate, however feeble, of equal rights and equal protection. Personally considered, it was no object to him, whether trade perished or agriculture flourished, for he had no community with commerce, nor with the lords of the soil. Springing from the people, he was of the people, and was proud of being their champion, either in or out of that House. At the present moment this petition was of peculiar interest, as it was intimately in alliance with a subject which absorbed, more than any other, the attention of
161716161615Mr. D. W. Harvey
 expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman should maintain that the manufacturers were placed on an equal footing with the growers of corn. For his part, he believed that protecting duties had none but a bad influence on manufacturers. If every protecting duty on foreign manufactures were removed, he believed the manufacturers would be improved thereby.Sir G. Philips
 concurred with the right hon. gentleman in his remarks as to free trade. On that point he thought the petitioners in error, and also in their opinion as to the regulation of wages; but he concurred with them in their call on the legislature for the same measure of protection that was given to the richer classes of the community. This might be considered the petition of all the working classes; to they all concurred in the principle, that, if they could not obtain the protection for their trade, they should at least have the advantage of a general extension of the principle of free trade, so as to do away with all monopolies.Mr. Hume
 said, that the effect of making dissection at any time a penalty could only be to increase the aversion in which if was held by the community.Mr. Hume
 expressed his firm conviction, that if any act were passed to regulate the rate of wages, not a twelvemonth would elapse before petitioners would crowd to the House to implore its repeal. If ever there had been a triumphant illustration of the principles of free trade, it existed in the present state of the silk trade; which had increased within the last eighteen months more than it had done for the preceding forty or fifty years.Mr. P. Thompson
 admitted that the silk manufacturers were protected to the extent of thirty per cent, but then the corn growers were protected to the amount of seventy-five per cent. Thus the manufacturers were prejudiced to the extent of forty-five per cent.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that reference had been made, on this subject, to the principle of political economy, that labour should be allowed to find its level like every other commodity. That might be very true in a new state, where the demand for labour was equal to the supply; but it would not do in a country like this, where the disproportion between labour and the demand for it was so great. He concurred with the hon. member, that the petitioners were entitled to protection in the price of labour, which was their only commodity, as much as other classes who had been protected by legislative enactments. The principle on which the petitioners went was not a new one. It was admitted in the Spitalfields act, which was in force some few years ago. There were no doubt many objections to that act, but they would not apply to a general act of that description—an act by which a committee of the masters and journeymen might meet at. stated periods, and fix a scale of prices by which the majority might bind the minority. The petitioners did not call for a fixed scale of prices, but that committees of the employers and employed should have the power of meeting and regulating the prices according to circumstances. He did not say that this would have an immediate effect in raising the price, but there could be no doubt that it would quiet the minds of the workmen, prevent those fluctuations of prices to which they were now liable, and enable them to make such calculations as would meet their wants from day to clay. He hoped that government would turn its attention to this important subject.Mr. Fyler
 said, the petitioners stated a grievance, and prayed an inquiry into it, in order that it might be abated. But then they had a further prayer; and it appeared to him clear, that they could not receive a petition which prayed that House to interfere with the manner in which the House of Lords had performed their duty in their appellate jurisdiction. He suggested, that the petition should be withdrawn, in order that this prayer might be omitted.The Speaker
1614 said, that the expense of a course of anatomical study in Edinburgh was already twenty times greater than it was in Paris. It was so heavy, indeed, that not one pupil in four could afford fairly to go through it; and the result was, that great numbers were turned out, with very inadequate qualifications, to practise upon the community. He would not, at that moment, state his precise views upon the subject, but he believed it would be possible to provide all the supply that was necessary, without any offence to the feelings of humanity, or violation of the rites of sepulture. The poorer classes were vitally interested in some proper arrangement of the question, since it was to their lot that the danger from all unqualified or half-qualified medical practitioners must necessarily fall: there would always, whatever might, be the charge of education, be a sufficient quantity of skill and knowledge for the rich. With respect to the proposition as to suicides, he might just observe, that, in opposition to the common belief, it was capable of proof, that suicides were less frequent in England than in any country in Europe; and the giving up the bodies of murderers proved a source of supply entirely unworthy notice. For the last seven years the number of murderers had only averaged fourteen in each year, or one upon every eight hundred and fifty thousand on the population. It gave him
1614Sir J. Mackintosh
 observed upon the number of suicides annually committed in London, and suggested that, in such cases, it would be proper to give up the bodies for dissection.Sir J. Yorke
 asked, whether it was true that the burial ground was in this disgraceful state, and that the corporation had let the burial ground attached to the chapel to one of their own body?Sir J. Yorke
 said, that the hon. seconder did not seem to be aware of the precise object to which it referred; and he might say the same of the hon. mover. He wished to remind him, that no commission had issued under the Great Seal for an inquiry into the administration of justice in the county Palatine of Chester. Me would suggest, that the question ought I to come under the cognisance of the commission for Inquiry into the origin and progress of the superior courts of Law. Though the motion referred to Welsh courts, he had no objection to their being included among the superior courts of law in this county. Under these circumstances, he hoped the hon. gentleman would consider that a sufficient answer was given to his motion.Mr. Secretary Peel
 supported the motion, and said that the hon. member had done himself great credit by the manner in which he had brought it forward.Mr. Davenport
 said, he rose to present a petition which was deserving of the serious consideration of the House. It was signed by the chairman and secretary of the delegates from the various Friendly Societies in Manchester and its neighbourhood, and prayed that the bill which was in progress might not pass into a law. He entirely concurred in the views of the petitioners. The retrospective clause in it was extremely objectionable. It was to this effect,—that if any society already enrolled should wish to make any alterations in their rules, they must make them under the provisions of this act, and be deemed a society within the meaning of the act. He was morally and legally certain, that if it passed into a law, it would be productive of endless litigation.Mr. Brougham
 said, he understood that the retrospective clause in the bill was proposed to be withdrawn; but there were other clauses highly objectionable, and the public opinion was decidedly against the measure. He objected to the clause for referring all calculations to Mr. Finlayson. Many people were by no means satisfied with the correctness of that gentleman's tables. At the suggestion of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, it had been agreed to withdraw the clause as to the qualification of trustees; but if so much of the bill was given up, it would certainly be policy to give it up entirely. The bill was very obnoxious to the persons who were immediately concerned in it, and the country had a deep interest in giving no check to the disposition of the lower orders to form themselves into benefit societies. The sum already invested in these societies throughout the kingdom amounted to no less than seven millions; and a heavy addition to the poor-rates would be among the earliest evils arising from any dissolution of them.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he did not object to legislation upon the subject, but he objected to this particular measure, because he knew it was obnoxious to the very persons whom it was intended to serve. The bill had a bad name among the lower orders; and he therefore thought that it would be better to withdraw it.Mr. Brougham
15 said, he should trespass but for a very few moments on their patience in explaining the object of his motion. That object was simply the propagation of Anatomical Science, by facilitating a regular supply of Subjects for Dissection in our Schools of Surgery. Although our students in surgery were numerous, amounting perhaps in London, to six hundred or seven hundred, without including the country, if it were not for the difficulty experienced in providing subjects on which the professors might lecture, this number would be considerably increased; for it was ascertained that there were not less than two hundred English students in Paris, and about three hundred in Dublin, besides some in the Dutch, Flemish, and German shools of anatomy, whose only reason for retiring from their own country originated in the cheapness and facility with which they were supplied with subjects for dissection contrasted with the difficulty and expense which they experienced in prosecuting those studies at home. Taking the supply for these students at the rate of two subjects for each, the number of subjects required annually could not much exceed two thousand, if our schools were as full of students as we had a right to expect. How far this supply was aided by legal provision, might be conjectured from the fact, that there was no provision made by law for surrendering up to the College of Surgeons any bodies of malefactors, except murderers, who were found in London and Middlesex not to exceed five on an average in seven years. It was not his intention to trespass on the province of the medical gentlemen whose interests were more particularly at issue, by detailing the outline of
15Mr. Warburton
16 acknowledged that if ever he entertained a doubt as to the propriety of making some legislative provision on this head, it arose altogether from delicacy and a consciousness of the difficulty of combating successfully with old and confirmed prejudices. At the same time he would admit, it was not a light matter that so many eminent men should feel it necessary to appeal to that House, and state that they felt great difficulty in prosecuting their useful and humane inquiries, in consequence of the obstacles arising out of the present state of the law
16Mr. Secretary Peel
s.>s.d.s.20s.s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.19s.s.s.s. said, that the hon. gentleman who had opened the debate had expressed an opinion that 58s.>s.d.s.20s.s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.19s.s.s.s.Mr. C. Grant
 said, that the proper time for entering upon the discussion of the Resolutions would be in the committee, when the merit of the several parts of the measure might be discussed. This was far more convenient than to anticipate the discussion by an irregular debate. One gentleman said, he would not support the measure in the committee if such a duty was proposed; another gentleman objected to another branch of the measure. But, instead of putting these suppositious cases, the far better way would be to hear what was proposed, and then to entertain the discussion upon it.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
s.s.s.s.s.s. said, that whatever satisfaction the right hon. gentleman might suppose to exist with regard to his measure, the agriculturists would have been still more satisfied with the measure of last year. They required more protection when the averages were from 52s.s.s.s.s.s.Mr. Byng
26ad captandums.2524 concurred entirely with the hon. member for Wareham, that there was very great convenience in taking a discussion on this subject on the question that the Speaker do leave the chair. It afforded an admirable opportunity of obtaining the opinions of different parts of the country, as expressed by their representatives, on the different plans which might be suggested. It appeared to him that this was the object with which, before the recess, three different sets of resolutions had been offered to the House; and the present was the first opportunity of which the House could avail itself, to examine and discuss them, and to sec how far each interest could concede on each point to the other. He had not as yet learned why the House of Commons was, in the present session, to recede from the path which it had chalked out for itself in the last. There might be reasons of policy and expediency why gentlemen, hold-
26ad captandums.2524Mr. Stanley
27s.s.s.in toto,s. trusted, that the hon. member for Dorsetshire would not press his amendment to a division. He did not see how any member could object to the Speaker's leaving the Chair, unless he was satisfied with the present state of the Corn-laws. When the bill of last year was under discussion, he had voted in favour of the proposition made by the hon. member for Dorsetshire for fixing the price at 6427s.s.s.in toto,s.Mr. Fergusson
s.s.,28 said:— I simply object to this discussion, because I cannot see what object it can answer. If there were a general feeling in favour of an adherence to the present law, I could understand why arguments should be introduced against the proposal that the Speaker should leave the Chair; but when I hear the hon. member for Wareham talk of the existing Corn-laws as the most pernicious code that ever had existence— and when I find him resting his claim to public confidence on his almost unsupported opposition to it, I cannot discover the principle on which he and others object to go into a committee, by which that most pernicious code is to be amended. Every hon. member who has spoken has expressed his general concurrence in the principle of the new law. In the name of God, then, why are we not to go into the committee, that we may consider the details? The hon. members for Worcester and Wareham have given notice of their joint amendment; and that amendment cannot be moved but in the committee. At least, we have three distinct sets of resolutions before us; but the hon. member for Preston has given, as a reason for not approaching the subject, that the resolutions of the present session are not the same as those of last year. This mode of argument seems to me strange indeed in a deliberative body. After the interval of a year—after the experience of what has passed in that year—and after the additional information we have obtained, is it to be said that this House is bound by some fanciful sense of honour and consistency to adhere to its previous resolutions. True it is, the bill of this House did not pass elsewhere. It is a delicate subject to allude to the conduct of the other branch of the legislature, and certainly nothing can be more unwise than to ask the House of Commons to assent to what it thinks wrong, because the House of Lords refuses to do what is right. But, speaking not theoretically, but practically, there may be limits to the strictness with which the House will adhere to its own decisions. If we, on our part, are bound never to deviate, under any circumstances, from out previous decisions, it is a good
s.s.,28Mr. Secretary Peel
 said; that as yet the House was ignorant of the cause of the change from the bill of last year. He agreed with the hon. member for Wareham, that it was their duty to ascertain why this change had taken place in the opinions of his majesty's ministers. He had listened to the President of the Board of Trade, with attention, but that right hon. gentleman had stated no reasons for the change. So far from doing so, it was manifest, that, as far as his feelings could be collected from what he had said, he was almost ashamed to bring forward the measure.Mr. Hobhouse
s.d.s.35s.s.,s.s.d.s.s.,d.s.34s.s.d.,s.s.s.,s.s.,s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.33s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.32s.s.s.s.s.s.31s.s.s.s.s.s. said, his majesty's ministers had been placed in rather a difficult dilemma on this occasion. No sooner had the House formed itself into a committee, than up got an hon. member, who moved that they should report progress, and ask leave to sit again. That certainly was not the way to discuss this measure. The hon. member for Wareham, following that consistent and open course which he usually adopted, had already moved an amendment upon the resolutions proposed to the House. The hon. member for Wiltshire had stated his intention to propose an amendment upon the resolutions of last year. Under these circumstances, he had been desirous to hear the various objections which gentlemen had to urge to the resolutions before the committee, before he stated his reasons for supporting them. However, as he had been thus called upon, he was perfectly ready, at this stage of the debate, to address the committee. Before he did so, he should advert to one observation which had fallen from the hon. member for Wareham. That hon. member had stated that, by the present measure, the pivot in the scale of duty had been changed from 60s.d.s.35s.s.,s.s.d.s.s.,d.s.34s.s.d.,s.s.s.,s.s.,s.d.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.33s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.32s.s.s.s.s.s.31s.s.s.s.s.s.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
 said, he had yet to learn the reasons which had induced the right hon. gentleman to prefer the present bill to that of last session. He was certainly inclined to the opinion of those who abstractedly supported a fixed permanent duty. But feeling that it was impracticable to carry such a measure, he felt that the next best plan would be to adopt such a scale of duties as would keep the price of corn as low as possible, at the same time giving to the agriculturist a fair profit. Still adhering to that principle, he conceived the scale of last year to be much better than that now proposed. It was said that this measure would bring high prices to the agriculturists and procure cheap corn for the poor; neither of which objects it was likely to effect. As compared with the bill of last year, the proposition now made gave little or no protection to the agriculturist, while it was so framed as not to confer any benefit, by a reduction of price, on the poor. He wished to have it distinctly ascertained what the object of the bill was; for he believed that, up to this moment, the intention of ministers with reference to the measure was not understood.Mr. Stanley
38s.s.37s.,s. observed, that this was a most important question, whether taken with reference to our agricultural, manufacturing, or commercial interests; and he was glad to find that it was this year discussed without any mixture of party or political feeling, which unfortunately was not the case in the last session. He could not, he confessed, discover how the object stated by the right hon. Secretary could be obtained by this measure. The objection started by his noble friend in the outset of the debate, rendered it superfluous for him to say much on the subject. It appeared, according to this scale, that when prices were low, protection would be diminished, and when prices were high, that it would be increased. Such a system could not be useful to the agriculturist, and must be oppressive to the country. In his opinion, the settlement of a question of this kind did not depend merely on the rate of price, but must be guided by a variety of circumstances; because the corn trade, like every other trade, might be, and frequently was, affected by gambling speculations. The calculation for this country was, that every third or fourth year there would be a deficient harvest. Hence speculations, which constantly affected the price, took place. In a year of deficiency, when prices were high, a speculator would make a large profit; and if, when the prices were low, he lost twenty or twenty-five per cent, he could afford it, because he was sure to be repaid in a year or two; in the same manner as smugglers saved themselves if they were able to save one cargo out of three. Individuals would thus speculate in corn; and if a deficient harvest did not enable them to procure high prices, they would put up with a loss in getting rid of their cargoes, and look forward to better success on some future occasion. In ordinary years, therefore, the duty which was set down in this scale was not so much a prohibitory duty as the right hon. Secretary seemed to suppose. On the other hand, when he said that this measure, when corn arrived at 6438s.s.37s.,s.Mr. Baring
s. said, he agreed with the light hon. gentleman as to the duty now proposed; for when the price was at 60s.Mr. Portman
18s.s.,s.s.s.s. regretted to say, that he saw little reason to congratulate the agriculturists on the prospects held out to them of protection from the competition I of foreign corn in the supply of the British market. The proposed regulations of this were less favourable than those of the preceding year, for this reason—that they did not afford positive protection. He took, as a point conceded on all hands, that 6018s.s.,s.s.s.s.Mr. Portman
s.39d.s.d.s.s.s.s. expressed his belief, that the explanation of the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, with reference to the deviation from Mr. Canning's bill of last year, had not given satisfaction to any member of the House. He contended, that by looking at the population returns, and comparing the number of those engaged in agricultural pursuits with that of the classes who were differently employed, it would be found that they had sacrificed two-thirds of the population to benefit the landed interests. This system he conceived to be most objectionable; and it was attempted to be carried to a greater extent than formerly by this measure. He could not conceive, from any thing that had fallen from the right hon. Secretary, what had induced him to depart from the scale of duties of last year. —The hon. baronet then entered into a calculation to show, that when wheat was 50s.39d.s.d.s.s.s.s.Sir G. Philips
 inquired what were the grounds upon which the right hon. gentleman opposite adopted the present measure, in preference to that which he had supported and recommended in the last session?Sir G. Philips
 said, that after the explanation given by the right hon. Secretary he felt perfectly satisfied, and would, with the permission of the House, withdraw the motion.Mr. Wilbraham
12111098765432 said:—I fear that it may be deemed presumptuous, in a person so little conversant in the details and intricacies of the law as I am, to introduce to this House a subject which mainly concerns its practical administration. To this imputation I am willing to submit in the performance of a great and imperious duty. I am aware, too, that it may be objected that I did not bring forward this subject at the moment the most opportune for its reception; at that time when, in consequence of the motion of the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea the whole state of the law was thrown open to the discussion of this House. Sir, I am free to confess that I was deterred from this line in consequence of the character of that discussion. I was unwilling to intrust my feeble powers upon so vast a plain, especially as the ground was occupied, with one exception, exclusively by gentlemen of the learned profession.12111098765432Mr. Wilbraham
 said, that though he wished to state some objections to the scale of duty, yet, at that late hour, he would content himself with moving, "That the Chairman should report progress, and ask leave to sit again." The lower part of the scale should be amended, and the upper was not necessary. The agriculturists were suffering severely, and some effective protection should be given them.Mr. G. Heathcote
s.s.s.30 said, he was placed in rather a difficult situation. While he preferred the bill of last year to the present awkward measure, which conferred protection where it was not wanted, and gave no protection where it was required, he was of opinion that the bill of last session stood in need of some amendment, and it was his intention to propose an amendment of it. If it was understood, that he should be at liberty hereafter to propose the amendment of which he had spoken, he should, in that case, support the proposition of the hon. member for Wareham. It was asserted, that this was a measure which would prove palatable to all interests in the empire. The truth was, that the measure was not as yet understood in the country. So much confusion had arisen by the mixing up of the measure of last year with the measure of this year, that no person had
s.s.s.30Mr. Benett
 said, he felt flattered by the transfer of this duty to him, and accepted the trust.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he was ready to go into the discussion, even though the hour was so late: at the same time, he must regret the way in which they had spent three or four hours of the earlier part of the evening. He thought it was incumbent upon the government to explain why they had departed from the resolutions of last year. For his own part, he was quite ready to confess, that it did not follow, because at one time one thing was done, that it ought to be repeated at another: still, an explanation was due, and ought not to be withheld. For the purpose of bringing the two scales of duty into full consideration, he would introduce, in the shape of an amendment to the present resolutions, the rates fixed in the proceeding of last year. The hon. member then moved as an amendment the adoption of Mr. Canning's scale of resolutions of the last year.Mr. Calcraft
2322s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.21s. observed, that the right hon. gentleman had stated, that the present was not the regular parliamentary stage in which the discussion could be taken. In that opinion he must differ from the right hon. gentleman. It was in the recollection of the House, that a plan had been proposed last year, by one whose loss they all deplored; and it was but fair and reasonable that they should compare it with the provisions of the present. He did not put the question on any narrow ground of preference, nor mean to argue it as a protection to the agricultural interest, for it involved the interest, of the whole community. He would agree that the landed interest ought to have protection, but not merely for their own sake. The principle upon which it should be afforded was the good of all. It was necessary that they should be protected, because, with all the ports open, it was impossible to say how great a supply might be received from those vast tracts of country which only wanted encouragement to pour in their produce to the detriment of our own agriculturists. The bill of last year had the feelings of the country in its favour. It fixed the pivot price at 602322s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.21s.Mr. Calcraft
 seconded the motion. The facility of supplying subjects for dissection would, he said, advance the interests of science. There were no set of men in the country to whom society was more indebted than to the surgeons and physicians. Numbers of young men were obliged to leave this and resort to foreign countries in search of the knowledge of their profession. If a supply of subjects could be had at home, in all probability none of these students would go abroad.Mr. John Smith
 said, that the publicans were interested in opposing the bill, which easily accounted for the number of petitions presented against it.Mr. P. Thompson
 seconded the motion, and said that the subject was one which called for the attention of the legislature.Mr. Leycester
s.s.s.s. said, he could not agree with the hon. gentleman in preferring the measure of last year to that which was now before the House. But, willing as he was to support the present bill, he could not approve of taking the protection at a lower ratio than that proposed last year. They had additional experience to guide them, and that experience would show that foreign wheat could be brought into this country at a lower price than they had assumed, and had endeavoured to support by their averages. He knew for certain that foreign wheat could be brought into this country as low as 24s.s.s.s.Mr. Beaumont
14 had no objection, as far as his personal wishes were concerned, to withdraw the bill; but part of the matter complained of was already law, under the bill of 1819; and unless the present measure were carried forward, there was no
14Mr. Courtenay
 thought, that after the discussion which had taken place, and the three weeks notice already given, the bulk of the committee were prepared to discuss the question, though the hon. member might not be in a similar condition. So serious a subject ought therefore to be proceeded upon without further loss of time.Mr. Huskisson
36s.s.s. said, the object and principle of the present measure were precisely the same as the object and principle of that of last year. The bill of last year afforded protection up to 6036s.s.s.Mr. Huskisson
s.s.s. said, he had heard with astonishment the assertion that the bill of last year was carried by acclamation. Did gentlemen recollect, that the hon. member for Dorsetshire proposed last year an amendment similar to the present resolutions and that it was supported by no less than 170 members? He contended, that, had it not been for the monstrous coalition which had then taken place, the majority would have been the other way. He would ask gentlemen to recollect what had been the effect of it out of doors. For his own part, he had not met with any person connected with the agricultural interest who approved of it. He believed ministers were fully justified in making the addition which they had done to the scale of duties. What had been the avowed object of Mr. Canning? To make the price of corn oscillate in future, between 55s.s.s.Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, he had heard with unmixed satisfaction the manly speech of his hon. friend. As he himself entertained similar sentiments, he had been induced to give notice, that he would afford the House an opportunity of dividing upon the resolutions proposed by Mr. Canning last year. He hoped that his hon. friend, who was so much more competent to the task, would take it up himself, and bring it forward with his usual ability. He should feel great gratification in transferring to his hon. friend's shoulders the task which he had intended to impose upon himself.Mr. Robinson
 seconded the amendment.Mr. Robinson
 said, that this preliminary discussion had not been useless, as it clearly showed that the bill of last year was preferable to the present. The scale of the former was, to affix high duties when the price of corn was low; but the present varied entirely from that principle; for when the price was low the duty was to be reduced, and to be raised when it was high. When the price was low, then, where was the protection?Lord Althorp
51l.l.l.50 said, he rose to present a petition from Mr. Moses Wing, of Market-street, Southwark, and of Middle-row, Bloomsbury, relative to the great losses sustained by the public in the Life Annuities sold by government. The hon. alderman, after expressing his surprise at having heard it stated elsewhere, that no communications had been received by government, pointing out the losses on those annuities, save those of Mr. Finlayson, observed, that that gentleman had predicted the loss, and said he would prove it by his own tables, which tables,
51l.l.l.50Mr. Alderman Waithman
 seconded the motion. He said he had long been aware of the many mischiefs that the delays in the Court of Chancery entailed on its suitors; and although he had a very high respect for the present lord Chancellor, and did not conceive that the fault rested with him, he nevertheless trusted that such on alteration would be made as to rectify those heavy abuses which made that court a serious evil to all who were so unfortunate as to have business to transact in it.Lord Rancliffe
8281in toto.8079 said, that after the observations with which his hon. friend had introduced the present motion, he could not consider it in any other light than as a motion to propose the appointment of a fourth judge to carry on the business which now came before our courts of Equity. He was well aware that the motion did not involve that proposition in terms, but he conceived it to be impossible for any man to deny that it did involve it
8281in toto.8079The Attorney-general
l.92l.91l.90l.l.l. apologized to the House for addressing it on a subject which he was little acquainted with, and requiring so much practical knowledge to understand. Yet, as the hon. and learned gentleman had appealed to the working of the laws, all were competent to judge of that part of the question, without the aid of a professional education. In addition to daily experience, which sufficiently confuted the hon. and learned member, he would mention a particular fact which had come not long ago under his personal observation. A case relating to commercial accounts, which involved no less a sum than 150,000l.92l.91l.90l.l.l.Mr. Baring
959493 felt that he owed the same apology to the House as had been made by the hon. gentleman for venturing to enter into a question of this nature, involving so many matters of a professional nature, having neither the education nor the experience that would qualify him to discuss it fully; but he had an additional disadvantage, or perhaps he might call it an advantage—that he had not had any practical acquaintance with the court of Chancery. The hon. member for Colchester had seemed to consider that some peculiar responsibility devolved on him (Mr. Peel) on account of the state of the court of Chancery. But it must be evident to the House, that it was utterly impossible that he, without any professional knowledge or experience, could undertake himself to reform that court. He could only admit that he had a share of that
959493Mr. Secretary Peel
9796 resumed:—Having the intention, then, on some future day, to call the attention of the House to a specific proposition, he would ask again, whether it would not be better to reserve this motion until he could bring before the House the whole question complete? As yet his hon. friend had mentioned only one particular proposition, on which serious doubts were entertained; that of the separation of the bankruptcy jurisdiction from the Great Seal. The hon. gentleman also proposed some additional aid to the Court of Chancery. On the former proposition, he, last session, had made a specific motion, and his hon. friend must recollect, that he was opposed by some of the highest legal authorities, who had expressed their doubts as to the policy of the measure. Many of them were of opinion, that no material alteration of the constitution of the court was necessary, as they considered it possible that the court could retain the jurisdiction of bankruptcy, with three judges to do the busies of Chancery. There was an unwil
9796Mr. Secretary Peel
 observed, that Mr. Shadwell's statement was, that three angels: could not get through it.Mr. Brougham
9998 trusted that, as that gentleman had been advanced to the bench, and had thus become one of the three, he: would display not only human strength, but something of the angelic powers to which he had alluded. If, then, three judges were unable to overcome and to prevent the accumulation of the arrears, the next question was, whether any permanent provision ought to be made for the discharge of the duty; and he was sure that it would not be fit to appoint a new judge, until it had been established that the present number was insufficient. The multiplication of judges and of judicial establishments did not, in his opinion, tend to facilitate the transaction of business. Appeals from one judge to another had decidedly a contrary effect, and constituted one of the chief evils of which we had now to complain. What he contended was, that sufficient experience had not
9998Mr. Peel
108Tertium nullum constat.107quasi106105104103102 wished to say a few words, that the grounds of his vote might be clearly understood. He agreed that it was, at all times, inconvenient to vote abstract propositions; and, if he understood it rightly, there was one part of the motion to which he could in no way agree. With all respect for his hon. friend, to whom the country was under such weighty obligations for benefits conferred, especially in reference to the Court of Chancery, he could not concur in his proposition of that night without abandoning the principles he had uniformly held and declared. He was called upon to assert, by the motion; not merely that certain great evils exist in Chancery, attending the mode of proceeding and the construction
108Tertium nullum constat.107quasi106105104103102Mr. Brougham
85l.84l.s.l.l.l.83 observed, that the learned member spoke of the grievances of the court as if they were only in their infancy, and scarcely discernible to any but persons of curious vision, who delighted in hunting up imaginary ills, on which to exercise a distorted fancy; that the people did not complain, for they had no cause for it. But he contended that the hon. and learned member was himself a daily memorial—an hourly witness, of the glaring defects of that court, and largely thrived by their existence. It was not, therefore, his interest to remedy a system on whose abuses he fattened—and so long as the opinions of lawyers were to sway the decision of parliament would those grievances exist, for with them abuse and profit, were synonymous terms; and if they were not the authors, they were at least the eulogists of the system [loud cheers.] The hon. member for Wotton Basset had treated the subject with great ability, yet he (Mr. Harvey) would have been better pleased if the proposition for the increase of judges had proceeded from an hon. member whose professional avocations did not expose him to the suspicion of consulting private rather than public objects. But he contended an increase of judges would be an increase of unnecessary expense. Simplify the laws and despatch must follow—and a decrease of judges rather than an increase would be the beneficial result. We heard much of improvements in the law, and of a disposition to extend them. But where was the evidence of it? Ministers substituted useless change for solid reformation, and touched nothing which simplified the laws or lessened their expenses. The Attorney-general had said it was the duty of those who advocated improvements to suggest them. This he denied. For what purpose had we an Attorney-general at an enormous expense to the country? For what purpose had we a government, which cost hundreds of thousands of pounds annually,
85l.84l.s.l.l.l.83Mr. D. W. Harvey
89888786, said, it was not without feelings of great surprise that he had heard the hon. member for Colchester speak of the Court of Chancery in the terms he had done, and go so far as to describe it as "a public curse"; but that surprise was greatly increased when he heard gentlemen possessing property in the country, and who, from their station and rank in life, must be supposed to be, in some degree, acquainted with the Court of Chancery, unite in cheering the hon. member's expression so loudly. If he thought that expression of disapprobation applicable to the Court of Chancery, he would quit that Court instanter; but he would say, in the face of the country, that the Court of Chancery was not open to the imputations cast upon it: and while it existed as a court of justice, those only who were anxious to produce disorder in the administration of justice, would speak of it in such terms of disapprobation within the walls of that House. Such ought not to be the case—a court which had conferred so many important benefits on the country ought not to be exposed to public odium [cheers and laughter]. Gentlemen might cheer on; and though, as he was not accustomed to speak in that House, those cheers might now daunt him, but he hoped the time would come when, unawed by them, he should be able to address the
89888786Mr. Sugden
Multa virum volvens durando sæcula vincit."Convellnnt; immota manet: multosque nepotes,'' Ergo non hiemes illam, non flabra, neque imbres,7877l.l.l.l.l.l.7675747372717069l.l.686766MoreTill MoremoreThe same shall never moremoreNo moreMore"When More65via lactea6463 said, he would hot inquire into the other general causes of delay in Chancery, because he was satisfied that the main source of mischief, to which all the others were as nothing in the comparison, was the length of time that intervened between the setting down of a cause for hearing in any of its stages, and its coming onto be heard before the court. He could make this intelligible in a few plain words. Suppose a cause to commence to-day, and allow a year for the stages prior to the hearing, the answers and the evidence, which would bring the parties to April 1829. The cause would then be set down, but it would not get its turn to be heard for a year and three quarters; that is, till the beginning of 1831. The ordinance of Cromwell, that every cause should be heard on the same day on which it was set down, would not be reasonable; an average interval of two months might be allowed between the setting down and the hearing: but what would be said to the present course of the court, which, instead of averaging a period of two months, averages a period of almost two years? Well! in the beginning of 1831 the cause would be heard, and the judge would direct the necessary inquiries or accounts before the Master, which might occupy another year. In the beginning of 1832, when these were completed, the cause would be set down for further directions, for which it must wait a year and three-quarters more; that is, till the end of 1833. A second reference to the Master was perpetually required; as, for instance, where land was devised to pay debts and legacies; and this would occupy, he would suppose, a shorter time; so that, at the beginning of 1834, the cause would be set down for the final decree. Would the
Multa virum volvens durando sæcula vincit."Convellnnt; immota manet: multosque nepotes,'' Ergo non hiemes illam, non flabra, neque imbres,7877l.l.l.l.l.l.7675747372717069l.l.686766MoreTill MoremoreThe same shall never moremoreNo moreMore"When More65via lactea6463Mr. Horace Twiss
62l.6160proximus ardet Ucalegon.59v.l.58575655l.l.54Or make her weary of her life."And soon reduce her to be your wife,Shall bring her on her oath to answer ye,They'll write a love-letter in Chancery,In bills, and answers, and replies,"And if you follow their advice,5352 said, he rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to submit a motion respecting the present state of the Court of Chancery. He had at one time thought that this subject would have had the sanction of the government; and had that been so, it would not have been necessary for him to occupy the attention of the House for any length of time; but it was necessary for him to make out a case to induce the government to look into the abuses of that Court, which, he contended, and would prove, was in a worse state than ever; alike injurious to the interests of the country, and to the welfare of the subject. He supposed, that because the motion came from so humble an individual as himself, it would have but little weight with government; but he trusted that the good sense of the country and of that House would support him, if they should see, as they could not but see, that, as the Court was now constituted, it was not fit for the business of suitors, and that they would, one day, come forward and demand that immediate steps should be taken to ameliorate the condition of the people, with respect to Chancery proceedings. If he was in error in thinking that some such measure was necessary, that House participated in the error with him; for that House and the government had, from time to time, agreed that some amendment in the mode of proceeding was necessary. In 1811, the casting voice of the Speaker decided that measures ought to be adopted for the purpose of affording a remedy for the evils complained of; and that House, in concurrence with the House of Lords, agreed that some immediate steps should be taken to give effect to the business of the court. A measure was carried for that purpose in 1813; yet he could prove that, at that time, there was not one third of the business to be disposed of which there was at the present moment. It would not be necessary for him, in support of this, to go in detail into the voluminous, evidence contained in the re
62l.6160proximus ardet Ucalegon.59v.l.58575655l.l.54Or make her weary of her life."And soon reduce her to be your wife,Shall bring her on her oath to answer ye,They'll write a love-letter in Chancery,In bills, and answers, and replies,"And if you follow their advice,5352Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, he had never considered that he was called on to bring forward any measure as a remedy for the evils of the court of Chancery, but he had merely stated, that he had prepared some outlines of a remedy, and probably might hereafter state some specific proposition.Mr. M. A. Taylor
l.101100 concurred with the right hon. gentleman, that the proper time for coming to a decision was when a specific motion was brought forward; but after what had already passed, he thought there was no necessity for the indefinite proposition in the hands of the Speaker. If his hon. friend had proposed a motion for the purpose of engrafting upon it a bill, he might have voted differently; but as his hon. friend stated, that the subject was to be brought under consideration again, this was a good ground for voting against the motion. He was disposed to concur with the right hon. gentleman, that the number of judges ought not to be increased. He recollected the opinion expressed by the late sir S. Romilly, that no addition was required to the number of judges in the then Court of Chancery. Even if it were a question of doubt, he should be disposed to wait until the present Chancellor had had an opportunity of trying the effect of such reforms and amendments as it was known he was disposed to introduce, to facilitate the practice of the court. From a long and intimate acquaintance with that noble person, he was satisfied that it was his sincere desire to remedy existing evils, and not to oppose prejudice to the real utility of propositions for the improvement of the Court of Chancery. He did not contend that the Court of Chancery did not require improvement; but improvement was not to be had by increasing the number of the judges, but by an alteration of the forms of procedure, and by facilitating the progress of causes. One of the chief difficulties of the Court of Chancery
l.101100Sir J. Scarlett
 thought the proposed resolutions highly objectionable. They tended to create a scarcity at one time, and a glut at another. The consequence would be, that the consumer would be injured by there being no importation at a period when importation was most wanted, and the grower would be injured by there being an excess of foreign grain in the market at a period when he could least afford it.Mr. Leycester
142 said, that with the present state of the currency and the existing taxation, it would be impossible to afford to agriculturists that protection to which they were entitled. The House could not divest the consideration of the Corn question from that of the currency; and the principle of the currency ought to be brought into full operation, before any decision was come to on the present subject. He could not forget, that the return to cash payments had been attended with more ruinous consequences to the agricul-
142Mr. R. King
d.s.s.147s.s.146s.,s.,s.,s.,s.145s.d.s.d.,s.s.,s.d.,s.d.,s.s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.d.s.d.,s.d.s.s.144s.,s.s.d.s.d.,s.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.,d.s.s.s.,d.s.s.143s.d.s.s.,d.s.s.,d.s.d.s.s.,d.s.s.s.,d.s.s.s.s.,s.s.d.,s.s. said, he flattered himself that the resolutions he was about to propose were so nearly like those submitted by the right hon. gentleman opposite, that he would at once accede to them. The resolutions he had drawn up, also approached very nearly to those which the hon. member for Dorsetshire moved last year. He proposed, then, that when the price was under 56d.s.s.147s.s.146s.,s.,s.,s.,s.145s.d.s.d.,s.s.,s.d.,s.d.,s.s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.d.s.d.,s.d.s.s.144s.,s.s.d.s.d.,s.s.s.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.,d.s.s.s.,d.s.s.143s.d.s.s.,d.s.s.,d.s.d.s.s.,d.s.s.s.,d.s.s.s.s.,s.s.d.,s.s.Mr. Benett
s.,s.,s.s.150149148s. said, he trusted the House would afford a patient attention to the subject, and that every member would conceive it to be his duty to attend to the statements of those who, from peculiar circumstances, felt deeply interested in the question. He confessed he was dissatisfied with the scale proposed by the hon. member for Wiltshire, as well as with that proposed by government. He firmly believed that a high scale of restrictive duties would not save the interests of the agriculturists. It was not difficult to foresee what would be the effect of the introduction of a scale of duties arising so rapidly as those now before the committee. No duty, perhaps, ever could be proposed that would be effectual in keeping out foreign corn. He therefore did not wonder at the statement of the hon. member for Newcastle, who had said that it could be imported at 24s.,s.,s.s.150149148s.Mr. W. Whitmore
s.s.d.,s. was contending, that the protection which the bill would afford to the agriculturist was abundantly sufficient. After stating various returns of the prices of corn at Guernsey and Jersey, and of the price at which it could be imported from those islands into this country, he proceeded to observe that the facts that, when the duty was 26s.s.d.,s.Mr. Secretary Peel
d.s.s.,d.,s.d.,s.s.s.,s.,s.,s.,s.s.151s. said, that in answer to the Guernsey case, which had been adverted to by the right hon. gentleman, he would refer to the case of Rostock. Sir Claude Scott, when he was examined before the Lords' committee last year, had said that corn could then be imported from Rostock to London at 22d.s.s.,d.,s.d.,s.s.s.,s.,s.,s.,s.s.151s.Mr. Portman
s. said, the hon. member had relied on a statement of sir C. Scott respecting a single cargo in 1826, from Swedish Pomerania, at 23s.Mr. Peel
s.s.s.152s.s.s. began by remarking upon the absurdity of the apprehensions which some agriculturists entertained with respect to the importation of foreign wheat. The lowest average price, he had heard, was about 32s.s.s.152s.s.s.Mr. Leslie Foster
s.s.,s.,153s.,s.d.s. wished to make one observation respecting the price of wheat on the continent. According to the evidence of Mr. Jacob, the actual price of wheat at Mecklenburgh, for a course of six years, was 25s.s.,s.,153s.,s.d.s.Mr. Huskisson
s.s.s. doubted very much whether 35s.s.s.Mr. Ward
s.s.,s.,s. said, he had listened to all the arguments brought forward for and against the measure, and could honestly state, that until now he had not come, in his own mind, to any satisfactory conclusion. His mind was now, however, made up, that the system produced to the House by his majesty's government was preferable to any that had yet been propounded. He had taken some pains to collect the average prices of wheat at all the northern ports for some time past, and he found that, taking the cost, or export price, at 25s.s.,s.,s.Sir T. Gooch
155s.s.s.,s. said, he decidedly preferred the system now proposed to that brought forward by the late government. He entirely agreed with the right hon. member for Louth, that nothing could be more idle than the perpetual references made in that House to the average prices of wheat at various foreign ports. It was ridiculous to make references of this kind when they had just opposite to them, as it were, and had had, for the last century, a port, Rotterdam, which had always been, as to corn, a free one. At that port the price usually varied from 30155s.s.s.,s.Mr. Baring
 disapproved of the system of taking averages, and expressed his perfect approbation of the measure proposed by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. C. Grant.)Sir M. W. Ridley
s.s.,s.s. proposed as an amendment to the resolution establishing the descending scale at steps of 1s.s.,s.s.Mr. Portman
156 wished to ask the right hon. gentleman opposite, what discovery he had made which had induced him to abandon the scale on the descending price, which he had proposed to the House last year, and to adopt one which gave inferior protection to agriculture? It was admitted, that the country did not stand in need of a foreign supply, and that the object of this bill was to prevent any such supply, up to a certain point. Why, then, did they refuse to satisfy those who apprehended that these duties were insufficient? The most intelligent among the growers of corn thought that the reduced scale of duties on the descending price was insufficient; and it was deviating from the measure of last year in this respect, that made the bill look like a compromise, which gave a higher price but removed protection. He admitted the advantages of this bill: it was a point gained: it had satisfied the country, that there were those in the cabinet who would give protection to agriculture, and had relieved the people from
156Mr. Western
s.s.s. did not know if the hon. gentleman had addressed his question to him. If he had, he could assure the hon. member that, without having recourse to compromise of principle, this deviation had taken place. It appeared to him, however, that one part of the hon. member's speech was an answer to the other. On the one hand there were great apprehensions, and on the other, confidence in the government: he thought, therefore, that the two feelings might be safely left to balance each other. He did, however, think that there could not be much alarm in the country on this point; for if there had been, they would have seen a different division from that which they had just witnessed. The hon. member had asked, why they had given protection, on the ascending scale, and taken it from the other? It was thought that 60s.s.s.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
140139 said, he rose to present a Petition from the Corporation of Dublin, against the Roman Catholic Association. The petitioners commenced by stating, that being the body from whom the magistrates of Dublin were selected, they felt it to be their duty, to call the attention of the House to a Society which they thought calculated to injure the peace of Dublin, and to pray that the House would adopt prompt measures to suppress it. He need not remind the House, that the proceedings of the old Catholic Association, previous to 1825, were such as to call the attention of government to them. The danger that was apprehended had been submitted to the legislature, and a great majority in both Houses had come to the conclusion, that the Association was dangerous. This opinion had been further evinced in the bill passed in 1825, called the Unlawful Society bill. To this law the old Catholic Association had affected to submit; but scarcely was [that submission professed, before a new Association sprung up, which, while it pretended to coincide with the bill, was, in fact, totally hostile to its essence. That bill directed its enactment against certain societies, which it pronounced illegal, but contained exceptions in favour of societies for certain objects. When, therefore, the Catholic Association again sprung up, it assumed a form which came within what was legal under the act, though, in truth, it preserved the same character, and was supported by the same persons as before. When it assumed the same character in its operations of directing the motions of the Catholics, and controlling the proceedings of the Protestants—when it interfered, by the expression of its opinions, in all great measures of policy which came under the attention of the legislature, he thought that every objection which was urged successfully against the Association in 1825, would lie with the same, or greater, force, against the Association now existing in Dublin. Many plans, then in a state of incipiency, had now reached their maturity—many objects, then limited in their nature, had now been reared up to an almost indefinite extent. He called the attention of the House to the connexion which notoriously subsisted between this Association, as a political body, and the Catholic priesthood—to the collectors of the Catholic rent,
140139Mr. Moore
141 said, he rose for the purpose of seconding the motion. He must call the attention of the House to the peculiar circumstances under which this petition came before them, and to the peculiar character of the speech by which it had been introduced. He recollected the discussions on the Catholic question for the last ten years, and had observed that, in every case, when the discussion was approaching, some hon. gentleman had brought forward some question which
141Mr. Spring Rice
 supported the prayer of the petition. At present we were, he said, enabled to carry on a competition, in the continental markets, with Silesia, and the Netherlands; but the effect of the proposed tax, would be, to destroy the competition which we had hitherto kept up and to transfer our foreign woollen trade into the hands of continental manufacturers.Mr. Alderman Thompson
 said, that gentlemen on the opposite side were continually asserting that those who espoused what was called the agricultural interests knew nothing about their own concerns, and they were always begging the agriculturists to let the other side manage their affairs for them. He had not been long in that House; but he had always heard this doctrine, not only upon the question of wool, but upon all similar occasions. For his part, all he deduced from such language was, that the landed interest ought to be on their guard when gentlemen on the other side told them that they intended any measure for their benefit. It would be found, that the price of inferior kinds of wool had fallen in greater proportion than cotton or any other article. He would not pledge himself to support either long wool or short wool; for he wished to do that which was substantially just to the whole country. The noble lord had said, that if the House reverted to the former law, it would be going back to a period of barbarism; but he begged to remind the House, that the change in the law respecting wool had taken place only two or three years ago. He would maintain, that the consumers would not be benefitted by taking off the tax. The House ought to strike a balance between the manufacturing and agricultural interests, and to go into the question at once; as the petitioners only asked for inquiry.Mr. Heathcote
 begged the House to recollect, that there stood on their paper a notice of a motion for Monday, on the general question of the Wool trade. This being the case, he should abstain from entering into the subject, or from giving any opinion of the course which ministers intended to pursue, until the whole question was fairly before the House.Mr. C. Grant
l.l.l. said:—I hope I may be allowed to ask certain questions of ministers relative to the Currency of the country. Considering the advanced state of the session, and that early next year an important alteration is to take place in that currency, I hope the chancellor of the Exchequer will allow me to ask whether it is the intention of government to adhere to the plan already laid down of preventing, after the 5th of April next, the issuing, re-issuing, and negotiating of notes in England for less sums than 5l.l.l.Sir James Graham
l.,191:— I admit the great importance of the subjects to which the hon. baronet's questions refer, and have no objection to answer them. To the first I say, that government sec no reason to depart from the policy laid down in 1826, with respect to the currency, or to that part of it which consists in the circulation of small notes; and it is their fixed determination to adhere to the law as it was then enacted. As to the small circulation of Scotland and Ireland, government are not prepared to take the same course; but to prevent any advantage being taken of the circulation of small notes in Scotland, it is my intention, at an early period, to introduce a measure, for the purpose of hindering the circulation of those
l.,191The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.s.,s.,192 said, he was ready to bow to the superior knowledge of the right hon. gentleman below him upon this subject; but he would yield to no one in an anxious desire to advance the agricultural interests of the country. The hon. member went on to observe, that light, or, as they were called in Lincolnshire, "heath lands," were well suited to the cultivation of barley and oats, but were unfit for wheat. These lands ought to be protected, or else they must go out of cultivation. He found that, during the last eight years, there had been imported into this country, one million and eighty three thousand seven hundred and thirty nine quarters of barley, of which fifty seven thousand three,
s.s.,s.,192Colonel Sibthorpe
 asked, why they should raise the protecting price of wheat, and not that of barley? The lands capable of growing wheat were favoured, while the lighter lands, fit only for growing barley and oats, were neglected, and likely to be thrown out of cultivation. It was last year admitted by the right hon. gentleman opposite, that the protection extended to barley and oats was not sufficient.Mr. Fergusson
s.,s. wished that no alteration should be made in the proposed scale of duties; but if any were to be made, he thought it should be in favour of oats rather than barley. He thought the agricultural interest was sufficiently protected by the duty at 58s.,s.Mr. Cripps
s.,s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.,193s. did not think that the mere circumstance of an alteration having been made in the scale of wheat afforded a reason for a similar alteration in the price of barley. Each case ought to rest on its own merits. The scale of wheat had been altered, because the duty imposed by the last warehousing act had failed to exclude wheat, when its admission was injurious to the agricultural interest. When that act was passed, barley was so much in request in this country, that there was not enough for the distilleries, and the average price for some time had been 40s.,s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.,193s.Mr. C. Grant
s. was of opinion, that unless some restrictions were put on the bonding system, the agriculturists must suffer. He thought a ship bringing foreign wheat into this country ought to be made to pay the duty of 20s.Mr. Graham Pigott
s.d.s.s.,d.s.195 said, he had an amendment to propose. If wheat and barley were the same as in the scale of last year, oats ought to be higher. The protection given to oats was not sufficient for Scotland. The
s.d.s.s.,d.s.195Mr. Fergusson
s.s., thought it would be in vain to attempt to persuade the House, that the price of oats was not sufficiently protected, and referred to a passage in Mr. Jacob's report, which stated, that a cargo imported into this country from Amsterdam, and sold at 19s.s.,Mr. C. Grant
s.s. contended, that the average price of oats in seven different foreign ports, was, for a series of years, not more than 7s.s.Mr. Fergusson
 said, the scale of last year had been raised with regard to barley and wheat, not to favour the growth of those grains more than the rest, but because the old scale was essentially erroneous.Mr. Bankes
s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.,d.s.s.s.s. said, that as the resolution now before the committee had been adopted after mature deliberation, he could not consent to change it. His reasons for resisting the amendment were these: In the case of wheat, the price of last year had been found insufficient; for, under the then scale, the importation had been such, that it had been found necessary to alter the price and rate of duty. They had not had the same experience with respect to barley; as the importation of barley had only just exceeded two hundred thousand quarters—a very small quantity, when there had been such a peculiar demand for it. But, even as the scale now stood, it was higher for barley, considered with regard to wheat, than had ever been before known, with the exception of last year. But they had better not bind themselves merely by what was done last year, but take a calculation for fifty years past, and find the relation which barley bore to wheat and oats. Taking the calculation of the last fifty years, and assuming as the ground of that calculation, that wheat was at 100s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.,d.s.s.s.s.Mr. Secretary Peel
 supported the amendment, and observed that Mr. Jacob's Report was very amusing to read; but if the writer had been so unfortunate as to farm some of the poor lands in Lincolnshire during the last few years, he was satisfied he would have thrown his own book into the fire.Colonel Sibthorpe
 thought that unless a special case was made out, it would be better to adhere to the scale of last year.Mr. C. Grant
s.s.196s.s. expressed his surprise that the proportion observed in all former acts should have been abandoned in the case of this most beautiful of all culture, the row culture of pease and beans. The importance of it, in benefitting the cultivation of wheat land was well known, and its utility in giving employment to whole villages ought not to be forgotten. In the process of planting, in the three hoeings which took place in this species of agriculture, the labourer earned from 23s.s.196s.s.Mr. Western
 contended, that the averages of the last fifty years could not be considered a fair average of price, because it embraced a period of twenty years of war, during which the ports of the continent were closed.Mr. Wodehouse
s.s. observed, that there was a greater fluctuation in oats than in any other description of grain. He referred to the Report of Mr. H. Canning, by which it appeared, that oats could be shipped from Hamburgh to England at from 6s.s.Mr. Wodehouse
 wished to call to the recollection of a right hon. gentleman opposite, what he had said some time ago; namely, that it was intended to allow a silver circulation concurrently with the gold one. That would no doubt go a great way to cure the evil of a diminished circulation of small notes. As to the Scotch notes, though there were only forty-five members from that country in that House, and sixteen in the other, they acted in concert, and on all occasions carried their point when any measure was introduced affecting their country. The moment any measure which was considered in any way opposed to the interests of Scotland was brought forward, every man, woman, and child, in that country raised their voices against it, and they were almost always successful. However, as far as the Scotch notes went, he thought they were safe.Mr. Curteis
188 said, that those gentlemen who considered themselves the protectors of the agricultural interest adopted very unfair and vulgar views, both as to their own interests, and those of the country. They first sought to obtain a high tax upon corn, and were anxious to follow that measure up by procuring a high tax upon wool. That was their plan. As to the said produce, most of it was
188Sir G. Philips
189 said, that if inquiry could be gone into for any good purpose, he, for one, would not urge its refusal; but when it was known that the bare mention of inquiry had caused a considerable alarm in the country, and as he was satisfied that no case could be made out in the committee, he thought it would be uselessly adding to the alarm that existed, to go into the committee. His hon. friend
189Mr. P. Thompson
 wished the House to guide themselves by the ratio of last year. That ratio was adopted after mature deliberation and full discussion. It was said, that in Mr. Canning's bill the scale of oats had been raised, while that of wheat had remained the same. That was no objection. The ratio there was taken between wheat and barley on one side, and oats on the other, and great mischief would result to the agriculturists if it was departed from. Farmers had always a hankering after wheat crops; and if they were encouraged in that prejudice, they would not employ that succession of crops which was greatly for the benefit of the country. He should object to any thing that had a tendency to make our population change their wheat food for oats, or any other substitute.Mr. Leycester
 thought the proposed tax was a necessary protection due to the agricultural interest. At present, the price of British wool was ruinously low, and the only way to raise that price was by the imposition of a duty.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, he hoped that government would concede the committee, for the purpose of doing justice to all parties. The agriculturists had not been fairly dealt with on this occasion. They had been represented as hostile to the manufacturers. The fact was not so: they sought only for that fair protection to which they were entitled. He would beg the attention of the House to the present condition of the growers of long wool to what it was before the tax on foreign wool was removed. At that time it was urged, that as there was not such wool in the world, the growers of long wool in Yorkshire and the middle counties would obtain a ready market for their commodity by exportation: but what was the fact? The French government had laid on a tax of 30 per cent on all wool of that kind sent to that country. So that the purses of, the landed interest here were not only drawn for the benefit of the foreign agriculturist, but also for the benefit of the French revenue. He hoped the right hon. gentleman opposite would pause before he pushed too far his principles of free trade; which he could not but think were, in some respects, a curse to the country.Sir C. Burrell
 presented a petition from the merchants of London, engaged in the Wool trade, against the imposition of a Tax on Foreign Wool. The petitioners submitted, that the imposition of such a tax would prove ruinous to the manufacturing and commercial interests of the country.Mr. Ward
 maintained, that there was no way of coming at what the standard price of grain would be, but he thought it probable that the price of all grain abroad would depend much on what was passing here. It was not a fair way of proceeding to take, as the agriculturists now did, the most favourable harvests into account, when they were forming their averages. The harvest of 1818 was an unfavourable one, yet they never heard anything of that during their debates. The fair way of looking at the question would be, to take the good and bad harvests together, and to form their averages on that basis. As to the low prices at which it was said that grain could be imported from abroad, he defied any one to prove that it could be introduced at such prices with any benefit to the importer. The plan of government was calculated to mitigate the extremes of fluctuation, and for that reason was entitled to support.Mr. Ward
pro tanto, maintained that the proposed average protection was the natural one, and was founded upon the proportions which had been maintained for years. If they were to give barley an undue protection, they would, pro tanto,Mr. F. Lewis
 supported the amendment, and observed, that the culture of this grain was by hand, and gave considerable employment to the agricultural population.Sir E. Knatchbull
 was of opinion that the resolutions already afforded too much protection to the agriculturists. He would, therefore, oppose all amendments which went to augment that protection.Mr. Robinson
 thought, that whatever might be their object,—barbarity or prosperity,—the existing system could have only one end—the total ruin of the agriculturists. The importation of foreign wool into this country was daily increasing, while our export of manufactured goods was proceeding in the contrary direction. It ought to be recollected, too, how large a proportion of that imported wool was worked up into manufactures for home consumption.Sir M. W. Ridley
 opposed the petition, and hoped that the conversation would not terminate without some expression by parliament of its feeling upon the subject. If we were to revert to the times of poverty and barbarism, then it might be well to impose a duty upon raw commodities; but if the advance of prosperity was our object, no course could be more destructive of it.Lord Milton
203 thought there was one advantage in this bill, which was, that it went to get rid of the law of hiring—a law to which the hon. member for Wiltshire was opposed. The hon. member wished to substitute a settlement gained by residence, which this bill did not propose; but he trusted that the omission of that provision would not induce the hon. member to reject the bill. With regard to a settlement by residence, he feared there was not much chance of carrying a bill to that effect; for he himself had once proposed that fifteen years' residence might be pleaded in bar of removal, but his proposition had been thrown out. He thought the present system, which encouraged the practice of hiring for fifty-one weeks, highly objectionable, as it tended to create a bad feeling between the master and his servant, who saw that his hiring was shortened merely that he might be cheated out of his settlement. If the
203Colonel Wood
 said, he had some doubts which the right hon. gentleman below him had not succeeded in getting rid of. In one point the bill was good, as it would tend to diminish litigation. By the abolition, too, of the present Law of Settlement, we should gain the advantage of making the farmers return to the old system of domiciling their servants; which would tend materially to decrease the temptations and opportunities for crimes. Under the present system, the attachment of the servants to the master was much diminished, while it must be the wish of every man to see it increase. If a servant at the end of the year knew he might be dismissed; although the connexion might be continued at the end of the time, the chain might be renewed, but the link would be broken. But if it was not continued, the remaining number of days would be spent in debauchery. For these reasons, he should vote for the second reading of the bill, at the same time, he was not satisfied with all its provisions.Mr. Ridley Colburne
 thought it would be impossible to change the present system without doing so for the better. He should support the motion, in the hope that it would do some good; if it succeeded, some hon. gentleman could carry it further.Mr. N. Calvert
 thought there were many objections to the present measure, and was not sanguine in his hopes of its putting an end to litigation. He should, however, vote for its second reading, reserving his doubts for another occasion.Mr. Cripps
205 said, that no proposition upon this subject could be made which was not liable to objection. Certain it was, that settlements by hiring and service occasioned a vast deal of litigation, and that litigation led to perjury; the labourer swearing one way, and the farmer the other. He supported the bill principally because he thought it would lessen both, and give the servant an additional motive to good conduct. The strongest objection
205Lord Althorpe
 complimented the hon. member for Bedfordshire, on the industry, research, and ability, he had shewn in treating this question. He, therefore, differed from him with great reluctance, although, on the balance, he thought he should be warranted in supporting the bill. The increased expenses to which parishes were put arose out of the increased pauperism and misery among the agricultural labourers. He did not attribute this state of things as matter of blame to any one, but the fact was, that between four and five millions of the most industrious of the community, while all other classes were improving, were suffering the greatest deprivations. A long war, and other circumstances connected with it, over which the government had no control, had produced this calamity; but now that peace had returned, and men were turning their minds to schemes of improvement, he trusted an effort would be made by the House on behalf of servants employed in agriculture. He was convinced that many of the existing causes of distress might be removed.Mr. Slaney
207206 said, he approached this subject with the greatest hesitation, as he had had no practical experience of the
207206Mr. Secretary Peel
218s.s., seconded the motion, and contended that the plan of his hon. friend rested upon precisely the same principle as that of the late Mr. Ricardo, with the exception that Mr. Ricardo's scale of duty commenced at 20218s.s.,Mr. Warburton
ad valoremad valorem219 said, that with many of the general principles laid down by the hon. member for Aberdeen he certainly concurred, though not in the conclusions he had drawn from them. He agreed with the hon. member in the opinion that high prohibitory prices were injurious to the agriculturist, as well as to the consumer. From the experience of the last fifteen years, he agreed with him, that high prohibitory prices tended to drive out capital, and that they were not consistent with the state of our currency. He agreed that the system of the last fifteen years ought to be corrected; and those principles he professed, both when he supported Mr. Canning's bill of last year, and when he brought forward the present resolutions this session; but the hon. member would push these doctrines to extremes. The hon. gentleman had charged his right hon. friend the Secretary for the Colonies, with inconsistency in not applying the principles which he had carried into operation in regard to other commodities to that of corn. The hon. gentleman seemed to suppose, that in all these commercial changes his right hon. friend had adopted one inflexible rule in respect to all commodities, and under all circumstances: but he should have recollected, that in regard to the various articles which had been formerly brought under the consideration of the House, his right hon. friend had adopted the rate of duties which he then proposed, to the peculiar circumstances and condition of each. He was not sure that his right hon. friend's principles had been adopted to their fullest extent, in regard to those various articles, but so far as they had been adopted, they were accommodated to their peculiar circumstances and condition. The hon. gentleman said, that corn should be dealt with in the same manner as any other commodity. To a certain degree it would be right so to deal with it; but the right hon. gentleman had himself shown that it must be also dealt with in a different manner from other commodities. On a former night an hon. gentleman had alluded to the two modes of imposing a duty on corn: namely, by
ad valoremad valorem219Mr. C. Grant
ad valorem denied that he had proposed an ad valoremMr. Maberly
s.s.220ad valorem said, the hon. gentleman had used the expression of an s.s.220ad valoremMr. Grant
I did not assert any thing of the kind. I stated, that according to the most accurate calculation, the price of labour was, in the cost of manufactures, about one sixth.Mr. Irving.—
s.225 Precisely so; but the inference which he drew from it was, that this one sixth was a matter of very little importance. Now, he, on the contrary, viewed it as a matter of very great importance. What was the course which the landed interest called on the House to take? They said "high price is a good thing." So did he; provided the high price arose from a steady and increasing demand. But the high price which they were called on to aid was not a high price arising from an improving population, but a high price caused by a stinted supply. Such a high price was not a symptom of misery; and it was against that high price that he contended. To think of forwarding the prosperity of the farmers by levying an impost which must be injurious to the manufacturers, was the most fallacious idea that could possibly be entertained. He did not wish to see one acre of ground thrown out of cultivation; but the owners of the land ought to cultivate it at their own expense; he did not like to see it cultivated at the expense of others. If they could not get it cultivated but at a certain price, and if that price were forced, by a legislative enactment, from the people, it was clear that they took it from the pockets of others. But, in 1819, the House took a step which rendered every attempt of this kind futile. They wisely determined to abandon the paper system, and to have recourse to a metallic currency; and he had heard, with great pleasure, the chancellor of the Exchequer declare, that it was the determination of government rigorously to adhere to that resolution. He hoped that no hints, no expostulations, which might come from those who favoured the present measure, would induce ministers to interfere with the determination which government came to in 1819; at the same time he would warn, them that six months
s.225Lord Milton.—
valorems.s.s.s.228s.s.s.s.s.s.s.227s.226 thought that, on this occasion, the noble lord had done injustice to the representatives of the landed interest. He did not consider it to be fair for the noble lord to argue that the representatives of the landed interest in that House were actuated by their own private and personal views. In the first place, the speech which the noble lord rose to answer, and which was in favour of a protecting duty, was delivered by a gentleman not at all connected with the land, but by an individual whom the noble lord himself had described as one of the most enlightened and distinguished members of the commercial interest. Now if the noble lord found a gentleman against whom no possible imputation, on the score of personal interest, could be advanced, and whom he described as peculiarly capable of taking enlightened views, if he found such a man advocating the measure,
valorems.s.s.s.228s.s.s.s.s.s.s.227s.226Mr. Secretary Peel
 was of opinion, that the present measure would do a great deal of mischief. No doubt a period of scarcity might arise when a fixed duty, similar to the one now proposed, could not be exacted; but similar effects might occur under the bill introduced by government. By the measure now proposed, a tax would be levied on the poor and industrious to fill the pockets of the rich and the idle. He would therefore vote for the amendment.Mr. O. Cave
 said, he felt disinclined to support this measure, as he considered it too extensive an alteration of the Poor-laws. The place of a settlement acquired by service was always a matter of great discussion, and it was universally a question whether emancipation was lost on the day of the apprenticeship. These doubts peculiarly attached to apprentices in ships, who, generally, at the end of their service, if the ship happened to be lying in the Thames, spent the last day, or rather night, at some place on shore, and it was afterwards matter of the greatest difficulty to trace them. He had often seen cases, where, from difficulties of this kind, men had been passed and repassed to and from. Hull to London, and back. He trusted that the House would apply their attention, to this subject, and relieve the country from the burthen.Mr. Sykes
 seconded the motion. He approved of the bill as the first step towards cleansing the Augean Stable of the Poor-laws, the worst part of which was the law relating to hire and service.Mr. Curteis
 admitted the force of the objection urged by the right hon. member (Mr. S. Bourne), relative to domestic servants, but he thought it applied less than was generally imagined, inasmuch as the object of all domestic servants was to acquire property in their journey through the world, and to return to the parish in which by birth they had gained a settlement. The question for the House to consider was, whether by the bill it would be rendered more or less difficult to lose a settlement. If it increased the difficulty of losing a settlement, a new and beneficial era of legislation on this subject would be established. In the committee, consisting of twenty members, no less than eighteen had divided in favour of the present measure, and only two against him.Mr. Portman
 said, he would oppose the measure on the very ground which obtained for it the support of the hon. member for Sussex; namely, that it was the first step to the destruction of the Poor-laws, which he conceived to be a most wise and humane system.Mr. Benett
223 said, he preferred the present measure to that of last session, because he thought the higher scale of duties afforded a considerable additional security; which, in his view of the subject, the welfare of the country, as well as the just interest of the landholders, stood in need of. One would suppose from the speech of an hon. friend, that no Corn-laws existed in any other country. Was there not a Corn-law in France, Spain, Portugal, and every commercial country in Europe? They had each of them, found the use and necessity of such laws. Gentlemen ought to recollect, that those countries from which we derived the principal part of our wheat, were not consumers of it; and we could not tell those people, because wheat was dearer here
223Mr. Irving
 thought the bill ought to be entertained so far as the second reading. He went into a statement of the provisions of the statutes now in existence, and of the evils arising from the multiplicity of litigation they produced. It was said, that it was a hardship to send men away from London, where they might have resided for years, to the place of their birth, where they might be hardly known; but that evil would not be so great, as the one which now existed in another shape; for if persons were confined to the places of their birth for settlement, they would not be so apt to enter into imprudent marriages, but would lay by money to support themselves in their latter days. On the other hand, while the gaining a settlement, by residence was so easy, they would go into rich parishes, such as Mary-le-bone, and look to the parish for ultimate support. The practice of conferring a settlement by hiring was now almost abrogated by common consent. The bill, therefore, was but a return to the old system: for these reasons he should support it.Mr. Monck
s.s.,s.217s.s.,s.s.,s.216s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.215s.s.s.,s.,s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.d.,s.214213s.s.212211210209 hoped the House would indulge him for a short time, while he endeavoured to state his views as to what the law should be respecting Corn, and the measures that would ultimately tend to the public welfare, in contradistinction to those which had been passed by the House to the present time. He was aware that much angry contention had taken place on the subject of these laws, and that the country gentlemen considered the present measure favourable to their interests, because it imposed those high duties which his majesty's ministers had been induced to propose. He, for one, thought that the landed gentlemen had no right to the peculiar and exclusive protection, as they called it, which this House was not prepared to extend to other branches of industry and capital. It appeared to him, that they took the most erroneous views of their own interests, in wishing to cramp the powers and energies of the country. If there was any point to which they should more attend than any other, it was, that they should free themselves from the idea, that the land was the principle and most important interest in the country. Differing as he did from them, he would candidly state that, in his opinion, they much overrated that interest, and that this country never would have been powerful or rich without foreign commerce. If they looked back to history, they would find, that all those countries which had been rich and powerful, were those which had employed their capital most largely in general commerce. When they stated, therefore, that the landed interest was the most important, and almost the only interest to be supported, they were clearly under an error, which he trusted he might be enabled to remove. If the land
s.s.,s.217s.s.,s.s.,s.216s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.s.s.s.d.s.s.s.s.s.215s.s.s.,s.,s.d.s.d.s.s.s.s.d.,s.214213s.s.212211210209Mr. Hume
204 said, that the quibbles arising out of the Poor-laws furnished half the business of the quarter sessions. He agreed as to the evils of the system of settlement by hiring and service. A change of it would improve the character of the labourer; and if he should ultimately be
204Mr. Leycester
l.l.,l.l.l.201s.d.s.d.s.s.200 in rising to move the second reading of the bill to abolish Settlements by Hiring and Service, said, he was well aware he should be expected to state, to the satisfaction of the House, the motives which had induced him to ask the repeal of acts which had so long formed a part of the legislature of the country; and also to point out the advantages he proposed to derive from a new and opposite system. Before he went into the general subject, he was anxious to remove any misapprehension which appeared to exist. It was
l.l.,l.l.l.201s.d.s.d.s.s.200Mr. P. Macqueen,
 contended, that scarcity was the curse of war, and reprobated the Corn-bill as a means of inflicting on the country, in the twelfth year of peace, that curse. Some excuse might be made for adopting, at the commencement of the peace, a system of protection; but at this day, when English capital was united to foreign countries by projects for cutting canals and such national schemes, and when the labouring classes of this country were suffering for want of employment, was it wise to introduce a measure calculated to drive English capital to foreign countries, and, at the same time, to inflict high prices on a population which could not afford to pay them? He would support the motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen.Mr. W. Baring
 was of opinion, that the best title to settlement was three years' service, as in Scotland. He did not approve of the measure before the House, though he was far from viewing it in the light of an attack upon the Poor-laws. It was his opinion, that if the proposed alteration were carried into effect, personal property would contribute less to the support of the poor than it did at present, and that a greater burthen would be thrown upon the landed interest. He exceedingly doubted the policy of the measure; and did not think it likely to be attended by any advantage.Mr. S. Bourne
208 spoke in favour of the bill, and expressed his wish that it had gone further. He thought that a settlement should be gained by a certain length
208Sir E. Carrington
 contended, that nine tenths of the litigation at quarter-sessions arose out of questions of hiring and service, and of the perjury, out of the parole evidence given to support claims to settlement.Sir E. H. East
 observed, that he had voted in the minority of two, in the committee, because he did not think that the present system led either to an increase of litigation or perjury.Sir E. Knatchbull
l.l.229 congratulated the House upon the declaration made by the right hon. Secretary, that the currency had a
l.l.229Sir T. Gooch
222221 did not intend to follow the hon. member for Aberdeen through all his statements; he meant rather to confine himself to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, in what he had said of the advantages of a varying over a fixed rate of duty. He understood him to object to a fixed rate of duty, because the unequal burthens imposed on the agriculturist could not be calculated; but on what other principle than this did the
222221Lord Howick
224 said, the hon. member who had just sat down had described this measure to be a modified adjustment of this question. Now, it appeared to him, on the contrary, to be a decided compromise between two great parties. That its general principle was good he never heard any individual admit—nor was it admitted by the right hon. gentleman. He lamented the erroneous views which those who were chiefly interested in the bill took of their own interest, in one sense; and still more did he lament that erroneous view as it operated against the country. When he saw gentlemen divide, from time to time, for the purpose of settling whether the price of oats, rye, or barley should or should not be a shilling more—when he saw them coming down even to peas and beans—it was in vain for him to listen to the high-flown speeches of hon. members, who declared that they had no wish to exalt their own interest to the depreciation of other classes of the community. They must give him leave to say, that he must place their words in one scale, and their actions in the other. Let it not be asserted, that all these pleadings for a shilling more for barley or for oats were destined for the farmer, who stood between them and the consumer. No such thing: the rent of the farmer depended on the price he received for the article he sold; and if, by a legislative enactment, he procured a higher price for his corn, the public might rest assured that the English gentleman would get a higher price for his acres of land. The fact was, that the landed interest were casting "a longing, lingering, look" to the high prices which they had at the end of the last war; but nevertheless, they appeared to him to have mistaken their own interest. The hon. member who had just sat down, had main-
224Lord Milton
 presented a petition from the Silk Weavers of Norwich, complaining of the grievances resulting from the reduced state of Wages in that city, and suggesting, as a remedy, the appointment of a committee, composed of masters and workmen, for the purpose of fixing an established rate of Wages. As far as the grievances went, he concurred in the statement of the petitioners; but with respect to the remedy which they proposed, it was his decided opinion that nothing could be more mischievous. The master manufacturers were willing to give good wages when they were able to do so; but their ability depended on the state of the trade. At present, the balance of trade between England and the continent was decidedly against us. Our imports of French silks amounted to a million and a quarter, while our exports did not exceed a million. Large portions of individuals were suffering deeply from this state of things. He trusted that the House would appoint a committee to inquire into the mode by which substantial relief might be most advantageously afforded.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he was astonished that the hon. member should not have been aware that the first and chief Consolidation-law had already passed, and contained a material correction of the former acts. By the former law, some inconvenience arose from the local jurisdiction; by the subsequent law, in all cases of prosecution before magistrates, there was an appeal to the quarter-sessions. The right hon. gentleman adverted to the prevalent error, that jurors received a larger remuneration if they found a verdict for the Crown than for another party, and stated that, from the best information he could obtain, such a practice never had existed.Mr. Herries
 said, that the subject deserved the serious attention of parliament. All that the petitioners required was, that the masters and men should be empowered to meet for the purpose of arranging the rate of wages.Mr. Bernal
s.s. could not bring himself to believe, when it was confessed by the petitioners, that they were receiving- from 15s.s.Mr. C. Grant
l.mare magnum276275274nilnill.l.273l.annus mirabilisnil.cum grano salis.272l.toto cœlo,l.271l.l.l. said, that the hon. gentleman had stated the subject and arranged his case with great clearness and ability; but as he was not acquainted with all the facts to which the hon. gentleman had alluded, he trusted the House would not impute it to any want of respect, if he should omit to notice any point in the statement they had just heard. The hon. gentleman began by taking the two branches of the Excise and the Customs, the union of which he had described as productive of no good to the revenue. He had stated that government was still subject to the payment of 12,000l.mare magnum276275274nilnill.l.273l.annus mirabilisnil.cum grano salis.272l.toto cœlo,l.271l.l.l.The Attorney-general
277 observed, that if he could sec any prospect
277The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. admitted that the proposition of the hon. member for Colchester was too general, and that he had not pointed out any particular remedy for the grievances of which he complained. He was of opinion that a more efficient control than that which existed at present should be imposed upon the Boards of Customs and Excise. With reference to the case of Mr. Stock, that individual had been convicted summarily under a mistake of the magistrates; who, he believed, had become sensible of their error. The evidence upon which he had been convicted was the false testimony of an Excise officer; and the individual did not himself know the charge against him. The magistrates were desirous of mitigating the penalty of 50l.Mr. Western
270l.protegél.269l.l.268l.l.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.267l.d.s.l.l.266s.l.s.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.265l.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.264263 said, that in rising to make
270l.protegél.269l.l.268l.l.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.267l.d.s.l.l.266s.l.s.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.265l.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.264263Mr. D. W. Harvey
 trusted the House would pay the attention which was due to so important a subject.Mr. Wodehouse
278 said, he was surprised that the country had not risen up against the system of Revenue-laws. The new Consolidated law had not got rid of the obnoxious penalties, but had in a few lines re-enacted them. He should not be constent with any consolidated Revenue-law that did not specify the pains and penalties. The returns which had been so trium-
278Mr. Bright
s.262 thought it was the duty of parliament to interfere in all such cases of distress and oppression as that pointed out in the petition. The House had often legislated upon the principles on which the petitioners proceeded. It had passed a bill to prevent masters from paying their workmen in provisions or in kind; and a very humane bill to regulate the number of hours in the day during which children should be employed in manufactories. Parliament ought to be studious to keep the people at the highest standard of existence; and that could be effected only by high wages. Where wages were high, the revenue would be great, and the people more moral and happy. Ireland and Scotland were proofs of the truth of his position. Ireland, with a population of between six and seven millions, paid but little more of revenue than Scotland, the population of which was only two millions. This was, because, in Ireland, wages were reduced to their minimum. If the manufactures of England were to compete with those of the continent, it would be impossible for the labourers to get much higher wages than were paid in other countries.
s.262Mr. Monck
 said, that the poor man's labour was his all, and that whatever concerned the price of wages was deserving of the attention of the House. He thought that a committee ought to be appointed, as its report might be useful in clearing up the delusions under which the manufacturing poor laboured, with respect to a minimum of wages. He wished that the report of the former committee might be reprinted and dispersed among the manufacturing poor, in order to dispel the erroneous views under which they laboured. He could trace much of the distress among the manufacturers to the tax upon bread, produced by the Corn-laws. If the House could not make wages high they might make bread cheap, which would amount to the same thing.Mr. J. Wood
261 deprecated the application of abstract principles of policy in cases in which the general interests of whole classes
261Mr. Fyler
, while he was quite sensible of the grievances under which the petitioners laboured, was quite as adverse to the proposed remedy as the worthy alderman. He was convinced, that any legislative interference between the masters and the workmen would be productive of the most, injurious consequences.Mr. W. Smith
 rose amidst cries of "question," He said, there had been some cases within his knowledge of such extravagant injustice under the Excise laws, that he had had some intention of bringing them before this House. Then the expenses of these prosecutions: this was a subject which had not received an answer from the other side [The hon. member was here stopped by cries of "question."]Mr. W. Smith
291290 said, that it was extremely convenient, though it seldom happened, that an act of parliament should be so worded as to be susceptible of being understood. This did not appear to him to be the case with the Lords' Amendments
291290Mr. Hudson Gurney
293 said, he did not admit the right of the hon. member to put any question to him as to any amendments made in the bill in the other House. He would not, however, decline the explanation, as he did not see the slightest difficulty in the hon. member's objections. There was nothing in the amendments which ought to induce that House to reject the bill, or any on which a doubt could be raised as to the true meaning of the act. The hon. member objected, that the amendments took away the discretion of the Crown, as to the taking of the Declaration by ministers, or persons high in office; but then the question was, what did the Declaration require of them? That they would not exercise any power, authority, or influence, which they might possess in virtue of their office, to injure or weaken the Protestant Church as by law established. He begged to call the attention of the hon. member to those words. The Protestant Church was permanently established by the act of Union between England and Scotland, and also by the act of Union between England and Ireland. The fifth article of the latter act said, "That the Church of England and Ireland shall be united into one Protestant Church, to be called the United Church of Great Britain and Ireland; and that the doctrine, worship, discipline, and government, of the said United Church shall remain and continue as by law established; and that the continuance and preservation for ever of the said United Church, as the Established Church of the said United Kingdom, called England and Ireland, shall be deemed and taken to be an essential and fundamental article and condition of the Union." It was clear that the amendments did nothing for the Church which was not done before. All that it required was, that the party taking office should declare that he would not use the influence or authority of his office to weaken, injure, or disturb in its rights or privileges, the Protestant Church so declared to be permanently established by law. There was no alteration made in the bill, of any consequence, except that could be so considered which substituted the words "in England" for the words "within this realm." The addition of the words, "I sincerely, in the presence of God, profess, testify, and declare upon the true faith of a Christian, "did not make any material difference. He was unwilling to throw any difficulty in the way of
293Mr. Secretary Peel
 repealed his objection to the alteration in the bill which took from the Crown the power of dispensing with the taking of the oaths by ministers of the Crown.Mr. H. Gurney
 said, that the object of that part of the bill was, not to relieve ministers or others in high office, but was intended to apply to persons in subordinate situations, clerks, and others, in whose favour he could wish to see an exemption from taking a declaration which he trusted would bind all who took it. The dispensing power of the Crown was not intended to apply to ministers of the Crown, or others holding high offices. The oath did not apply to members of the legislature; it was only to persons taking office, and in that, view he did not see why the originally proposed dispensing power should be extended by the Crown to its own servants.Mr. Secretary Peel
294 was sorry that the bill had not come from the Lords in the same state in which it had gone from that House. He would venture to say, that those by whom these alterations were made were not aware of the results to which they led.
294Mr. Croker
295 did not think that the objections of his hon. friend (Mr. H. Gurney) were at all tenable; for there was no doubt that whenever the ministers of the Crown found it necessary to make any alteration in the discipline or government of the Church of England, it would be easy for them to make the public believe that such change was for the benefit of the country. This very act itself was an illustration of his argument; for it was truly said, that this measure would strengthen that Church; and any other measure which might be proposed hereafter, with the same tendency, would be passed with as little opposition. As to the fears of his hon. friend, that this measure would the up the hands of the ministers of the Crown from any future alteration, they were altogether groundless, and his hon. friend was only wasting his ingenuity in anticipating those cases. This bill was introduced to set at rest a question between the Dissenters and the Church of England; and as one of a numerous body of Dissenters he was satisfied with it. He was disposed to receive it, as he believed—from what he had heard in the other House from some of the dignitaries of the Church who had done themselves great honour by their conduct on this occasion—as it was in-
295Mr. W. Smith
 said, he could by no means concur in the amendments made by the other. House, and if he stood alone would object to them. He thought the introduction of the words "on the true faith of a Christian" highly objectionable. They meant nothing as they then stood. If the principle on which they were introduced was worth any thing, it ought to have been carried much further, and some explanation given of what those words meant. There were bodies of persons in the country who called themselves Christians, and who would not hesitate to make that Declaration, but who hardly admitted that the Established Church came under the denomination of Christians. In some pamphlets which they had published (one of which he held in his hand), it was said, that the Church of England was an apostate Church; that it was made up of Popery and Paganism, and that its practice was idolatrous; that it was guarded by the sword of power, and that it was a part of that city described in the Scriptures, which made a merchandise of souls. Now, when the legislature called on such persons to declare on the true faith of a Christian, it should be stated, what that faith meant—that it meant, amongst other things, a belief in the Trinity in Unity. He therefore would object to the amendment, unless after the word "God," in the Declaration, there should be inserted the words" the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost."Lord Mandeville
296 hoped the noble lord would
296Lord, Sandon
 objected to the words "in the presence of God," and also "on the true faith of a Christian." These words would exclude two classes, who ought not to be excluded from the benefit of this measure; he meant the Quakers, who would object to the first part as being in the nature of an Oath, and the Jews, who could not assent to the second. He did not see why either should be exempted from the bill; or why any legislative measure should debar the latter from the enjoyment of civil rights. Those restrictions were not creditable to the good sense or sound policy of the country, and he trusted the time would come when they would be wholly done away with.Mr. J. Martin
297 said, he could not allow the amendments to pass without a few words as to his view of them; and he was happy to perceive that the feeling of the majority of the House seemed to be, that they were not such as to induce them to reject the bill. The words which had been added to the Declaration by the Lords, could not be considered objectionable, as a Declaration of religious opinions, for they were not so intended. The Church of the country was Christian; and to whatever denomination of Christians a man might belong, he could not object to declare, "on the true faith of a Christian;" for when a party so declared, he could be understood to mean only on the faith of that community of Christians to which he belonged. The intentions of the Lords were, that a man should give a solemn assent to Christianity, without pointing out any particular sect of Christians. He did not think the Declaration was at all necessary; for many who were not Christians would not hesitate to take it. If he were to go to the history of our own country, he should find that Bolingbroke, who had given occasion to much writing on the subject of religion, employed the latter part of his life in attacks on Chris-
297Lord J. Russell
298 said, there were some parts of the bill which he could wish had been differently worded. The words "within this realm" he thought would be much better than the word "England." He also could wish to see clerks and persons in subordinate stations exempted from the necessity of making the Declaration. However, as the noble lord had not thought it expedient to propose any alterations in those parts of the bill, he did not feel called upon to do so. In taking his leave of the bill, he would say, that he had at first opposed the measure, because, as the question had not been discussed for nearly forty years, and as there had been a cessation of religious differences, he was afraid of sanctioning the introduction of a measure, by which those differences might be renewed. He did not, however, think, nor had he stated, that such a test as the acts had imposed was necessary; but he had said that the act was the less severe by the operation of the Annual Indemnity bill. When, however, he saw that a large majority of the House was in favour of the repeal, he had to deal with a new question—whether it was better to continue the act, or go on with the repeal; and in these new circumstances he was at liberty to act as they demanded, and he did from that time cooperate, and nothing that had been said,
298Mr. Secretary Peel
299 would have preferred the bill as it had been sent to the Lords.
299Sir T. Acland
300 said, that now that the bill was in perfect safety, before which it would have been unwise in him to offer a word that might have given rise to discussion, he rose to express his entire disapprobation of the amendments which had been made by the Lords. The entirely concurred with the hon. member who had opened the discussion, as to the injustice done to the Quakers and Jews by the amendments. The declaration, in consequence of the additions which had been made to it, was worse, by a great deal, than it was in the bill originally introduced by his noble friend. He thought that the requiring of a declaration at all was inconsistent with the principle and spirit of the bill; because it sanctioned the doctrine which he held in abhorrence—the doctrine of tests—of making religious opinions of any kind whatever the passport to civil offices. If, however, a test must be adopted, and if that test must be in the form of a declaration, he could hardly imagine that one could be devised more judicious, and less liable to serious objection, than that originally proposed by his noble friend. But that declaration had been made a great deal worse indeed in the other House, by the introduction of words which confined its application to certainly the great majority of all sects, but still excluded some sects of great weight as to number, and of the highest respectability as to character and conduct. On this account, therefore, he thought, that the declaration had been made worse in the other House, he agreed with the noble lord, who said that both too much and too little had been done in the other House. Too much had been done to please those who held that no sect ought to be excluded, and too little for those who maintained the opposite opinion. The declaration of faith was left in a very vague and indefinite state. He concurred with those who stated, that the bill would be different to understand. He believed it would puzzle the legal ingenuity of most persons I to state what the law would be after the bill passed. All the circumstances which he had stated were serious objections to the amendments; but, considering the great good that would be obtained by the
300Mr. Brougham
316315314313312l.l.311l.310309308307306305304régime303302301 said:—The subject, Sir, to which I wish to call the attention of the House, on the present occasion, is one which, however it may bear, and it chiefly floes bear, upon interests and feelings in a great degree removed from those which ordinarily affect, ourselves, is nevertheless a matter of considerable importance.—The question which I wish at this time to induce the House to investigate is, whether those extensive, valuable, and fertile, possessions of the Crown, the Canadas, are or are not administered under a system of Civil Government, adapted to the wants, the well-being, and the happiness of nearly a million of British subjects, and well calculated to maintain the allegiance of our settlements and preserve unbroken the affection and good understanding which should always subsist; between colonies and the mother country. If, upon inquiry, it shall be found, that the present system of government in those States is not calculated to answer this purpose, and that the remedy for the evil cannot be applied without the authority of parliament—it will be for parliament to deal with the question, with a view to the introduction of such modifications, improvements, and alterations in, the existing system, as may appear necessary.316315314313312l.l.311l.310309308307306305304régime303302301Mr. Secretary Huskisson
342 said, that one grievance
342Mr. Warburton
 said, he had come down to the House with the intention of voting in favour of the committee; but if he had supposed that one of the objects of the committee was to consider the disputes between the government and the legislature of Canada, he should have had different feelings on the subject. The consideration of such matters, did not, he thought, belong to that House. He was anxious to learn whether the object of the committee was to take into consideration the civil government of Canada.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 thought this one of the most important subjects that could come under the notice of the House. When he reflected upon the attempt of government to anglicise the people of Canada, and, under the guidance of Dr. Strachan, to establish a predominant religion there, he could not hesitate to attribute all the grievances complained of to misgovernment; nor could he wonder at the petitions of eighty-seven thousand of the people of Lower Canada, and of eight or nine thousand of the people of Upper Canada. The question was one of extensive importance, and nothing ought to be left untried to find out a system which would conciliate all parties. When he heard a right hon. gentleman talk of anglicising the Canadians, and imposing the Thirty-nine articles in Canada, and when he heard him cheered by a number of gentlemen who must know very little of either Upper or Lower Canada, he could not regret that that gentleman was no longer in the colonial department.Mr. Baring
343 said, that the hon. gentleman had altogether mistaken his line of argument, which was, that if we did not anglicise Trinidad or the Cape of Good Hope, why should we anglicise Ca-
343Mr. W. Horton
344, in reply, observed, that he had abstained from adverting to the character and conduct of lord Dalhousie, because he thought they were not concerned in this question, and because they required no vindication. The high situation which the noble lord would soon be called upon to fill would prove that he had not incurred the disapprobation of the government. An hon. friend behind him had asked him, if it was his intention that the committee should take into consideration the disputes between his majesty's government and the Canadian legislatures? The very wording of the motion distinctly showed that he had no such intention. Much had been said of the opinions of Mr. Pitt upon the subject. To that great man's authority he should always be disposed to bend; but he begged leave to read an extract from one of Mr. Pitt's speeches. It was to the effect, that if the legislative system of Canada were found to be defective, it was open to revision; and that there was nothing to prevent the parliament of Great Britain from correcting any part of that system which seemed to demand correction. What he was most anxious to do was, if possible, to conciliate all parties in that country. To effect that, the most judicious course which it seemed practicable to adopt was, to refer it to a select committee. His right hon. and learned friend, the member for Knaresborough, had in some degree advocated the cause of the population of Lower Canada; and in doing so had, like an advocate, introduced much misrepresentation. Me had addressed him, as if he had charged the Canadians with being bad political economists. That was not the case. What he charged them with was, that they excluded English manufactures. He had also to complain of his right hon. and learned friend, and of the hon. member for Aberdeen, that they both very fluently recommended ministers to put an end to the existing difficulties, by immediately conceding every possible demand of the Canadian legislature. But, was the conduct of that legislature such as to justify such a concession? The fact, that in a petition from eighty-seven thousand persons there were only nine thousand names signed, the rest being-marks, was a lamentable proof of the little attention which had been paid to the
344Mr. Hu skisson
334333332 said, the right hon. member appeared to have completely misunderstood the argument upon which his right hon. friend had grounded his demand of a committee. But, before he entered upon this question, he wished to make one simple statement. The right hon. member
334333332Mr. Wilmot Horton
339de novo;338337336335 said, that, after the clear and highly satisfactory statement of his right hon. friend, who opened the debate, and after the able comprehensive, and statesman-like, commentary of his right hon. and learned friend, there was but a very narrow ground for observation afforded to him. He could not forbear from expressing on this occasion the great pleasure which he derived from the speeches of the two right hon. gentlemen—the former of which was an historical detail of all the leading events connected with our intercourse with the Canadas since the commencement of it; the latter, a powerful review and illustration of that historical statement, enforcing the soundest principles of legislation with great wisdom, wit, humour, and eloquence. The subject before the House was one of as great im-
339de novo;338337336335Mr. Stanley
318317 said, that he fully admitted that the parliament of Great Britain, in what Mr. Burke had termed its imperial capacity, possessed the power of interference and control over all the subordinate legislatures of our colonies, but he thought that this power should be used with extreme caution, and only on a clear case being made out of the imperative necessity for such interference. He thought a fair exception might be taken to the light attempted to be thrown on the views of Mr. Pitt, in framing the constitution of 1791, which was the great charter of Canadian liberties. He could not help saying, that if those views had been carried into more complete effect, and that if the free governments thus formed, had been administered more fully in the genuine spirit of that great minister, the prospects of the Canadas would have been much advanced, and the present discontents would not have existed there. Mr. Pitt attached the utmost importance to the independence of the legislative council in both provinces, and even went so far as to desire to create an order of nobility, of which it might consist, in the Lower Canada. But the present system was to fill the legislative councils with placemen and dependents upon the government, and in the lower province to throw the whole power of that body into the hands of the English minority. The right hon. gentleman, therefore, in his opinion, did injustice to the memory of Mr. Pitt, when he said that his plan had failed, that plan having, in fact, never been acted upon. With regard to Lower Canada, he trusted that the House would not lose sight of the state of its population. There were at present, about four hundred and forty thousand French, and eighty thousand English in that province. He felt as strongly as any one could do for the
318317Mr. Labouchere
341340 concurred almost entirely in what had fallen from the right hon. and learned gentleman who had so ably and eloquently addressed the House. But, as the grievances of Upper Canada had not even been alluded to by the right hon. Secretary for the Colonies, he felt called upon to state shortly what he considered due to the people of that colony. He trusted that they would meet with ample justice in the course of this inquiry, though he differed entirely from his hon. friend who spoke last, who had applauded the motives, and approved the act of the right hon. Secretary, in referring the affairs of Canada to a committee of that House. The right hon. gentleman and his predecessors in office had raised the storm, which they were now afraid to meet, and
341340Mr. Hume
331330329328l.l.327326l.l.325à multi fortiori,324323322321320319 said—I think I may interpret fairly the general feeling of the House, when I express my congratula-
331330329328l.l.327326l.l.325à multi fortiori,324323322321320319Sir James Mackintosh
 observed, that the Quakers and Moravians were not sects of yesterday, and therefore could not be easily mistaken.The Solicitor-general
357 was also of opinion, that a considerable laxity of evidence would be introduced by acceding to the suggestion of the hon. gentleman. It would lessen the amount of the public confidence in evidence given in the courts. He was surprised at the hon. member's reference to Scotland; for there an oath was administered, and that by the judge, in the most solemn manner; the words being, "I swear in the presence of Almighty God, as I hope to be saved on the great day of Judgment." Without strong practical proof of the injustice of the present system, he should be
357Mr. Secretary Peel
 thought the subject well worthy of the right hon. gentleman's attention. Every one was agreed as to the propriety of taking the affirmation of Quakers; and there was a small sect in Ireland, called Separatists, who entertained the same opinion with respect to the immorality of taking an oath. The smallness of their number ought not to be made an argument for denying them the same privilege. It was also to be considered, that they bad the same tie upon persons who made an affirmation, which they had upon those who took an oath. They were liable to the same punishment for falsehood. He would require those who asked to be exempted from the oath to say that they belonged to some religious society which entertained conscientious scruples against the practice. In several courts in America, the affirmation of persons having religious scruples were taken in the room of oaths, and it was worth the right hon. gentleman's while to inquire how the practice was found to answer in that country.Lord J. Russell
 thought it was a greater evil to lose altogether the evidence of a man who would not give it upon oath, whether he religiously objected to the oath or said it was not binding on his conscience, than it was to incur the danger which the right hon. gentleman seemed to fear, but which would be found not to exist.Mr. Warburton
 admitted that hardships might, and no doubt did, arise under the law as it stood; but if they were to introduce any clause on the subject, it would be liable to the objection of increasing the summary jurisdiction of the magistrate; and great caution should be observed to guard that power against abuse. It might also have the effect of encouraging frivolous prosecutions, and of giving rise to great animosity in cases of slight affrays, which had better be settled between the parties.Mr. Peel
 defended the present practice on the ground of the advantage arising from the example, when the punishment immediately followed the conviction. He did not recollect an instance where a man had suffered from want of time to communicate to the government any strong circumstances in his favour.Mr. Peel
 said, he knew an instance where a danger of that kind had nearly occurred. He was present at a trial where the judge recommended the jury to find a verdict of wilful murder. They did so under his direction, and the man was ordered for execution; but he (Mr. Van Homrigh) agreed with the jury, that it was a case of manslaughter only. In consequence of that he went to the judge for a respite, that he might apply to the government; but the judge refused. He went to Dublin the next day, and on passing through Drogheda met with chief justice Downes, to whom he told the circumstances, and who recommended him to go to the Castle. The lord lieutenant was not at the Castle, the Secretary of State was in England, and Mr. Gregory, the under Secretary, said he could do nothing. He told that gentleman that, in that case, the man would be murdered. The Attorney-general was then called in at 5 o'clock in the evening, and when they had heard the circumstances they agreed with him; but Mr. Gregory said, what was the use of it, since no express could arrive in time to save the man's life? He answered, "Do you give me the authority, and I will take care that it shall arrive in time." The respite did arrive in time, and the man's life was saved.Mr. Van Homrigh
 said, that under such circumstances there should be no hesitation in suspending the execution. The fact did not prove that it was impracticable to do justice in such a case under the existing law; and, as far as his own experience went, it was not attended with inconvenience.Mr. Peel
355inter Christianos non no-minandum.354353352351 said, that in moving that the House should resolve itself into a committee on the Offences against the Person Bill, he would shortly explain the general objects of that measure, as well as of another which was before the House. One of the bills was intended to make an alteration in the existing mode of receiving evidence, and the object of the other was to consolidate the existing statute-law with respect to offences against the person. These bills had been prepared in furtherance of the system which had been for some time acted on of consolidating the statute-law. They had been prepared under the immediate and direct superintendance of the noble marquis (Lansdowne) who lately held the situation of Secretary of State for the Home Department. The object of this enactment was to introduce into our existing law some alterations which had been considered for years desirable, by persons whose knowledge of the subject and experience entitled their opinions to credit and respect. There were four clauses only in the bill. The first referred to the admissibility of the evidence of Quakers and Moravians in criminal cases. At present, their asseveration was admissible in civil cases and civil cases only. This clause proposed, in order to assimilate the administration of justice in criminal to that in civil cases, that these persons, whose evidence was objected to on their asseveration, should be placed with respect to criminal cases on the same footing as they had long since been with reference to civil cases. As far as cases went, he could cite enough of them to show, that numbers of these per-
355inter Christianos non no-minandum.354353352351Mr. Secretary Peel
 wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman intended to introduce any provision for giving magistrates a summary jurisdiction in cases of petty assaults. He instanced the case of a soldier's wife, who having been assaulted and robbed on passing through a town, applied to a magistrate for redress. The magistrate wanted to bind her over to prosecute, but the poor woman stated, that she must follow her husband, and the ends of justice were thus defeated in her case.Mr. Portman
 objected to the clause which permitted the affirmation of Quakers and Moravians to betaken in courts of justice, instead of an oath, in criminal cases.Mr. Wynn
alibi, thought, if the suggestion of the hon. member were acceded to, it would create great injustice to the public; for there were many who would not now give their evidence against a man upon oath, who would give it when that restriction no longer existed. In the same manner, an infinity of evidence would be tendered to effect a man's escape by an alibi,Mr. Wynn
 was at a loss to know in what way it was to be ascertained, whether a man, who offered an affirmation instead of an oath, was or was not a Quaker, or a Moravian. Was it to be considered sufficient for an individual, when examined before a court of justice, to say simply, "I object to an oath, and wish to give my affirmation?" The case, as applicable to Quakers, would equally apply to all separatists.Mr. G. Lamb
 said, he had recommended, not that oaths should be exchanged for affirmations in all cases, but that, where a party objected to take an oath, an affirmation should be administered to him in the solemn manner of the Scotch courts, which he considered as impressive as our oath. With respect to the laxity of the testimony given at the bar of that House, he begged the House to remember, that the witness was in no fear of prosecution.Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that the exemption now proposed was no boon to the Quaker; on the contrary, it imposed upon him an inconvenience, which, however, he was ready to bear for the sake of public justice. He thought there was little fear of any person claiming to give evidence under the proposed affirmation, who had not a right to do so. He had no hesitation in saying that, with an admonition given to the witness, as in Scotland, a man would feel himself as much bound as by the most solemn oath; and a greater effect would be produced on the minds of the spectators.Mr. W. Smith
358 said, that the first object of the legislature, and of the tribunals of justice in this Country, was, that a sufficient sanction should be imposed on
358Sir E. Carrington
 alluded to the shortness of the interval between the conviction and execution of a murderer, according to the present law, and observed that the period was too short to admit of that reconsideration which, in some instances, might lead to the respite of the convict.Sir T. Baring
 thought that the case alluded to was a case in point.Sir T. Baring
372 said, that his opposition to the bill was solely with a view to induce the House to assimilate the bill to the law of England. Great inconvenience was felt in this country from the permission allowed to foreigners of gaining a settlement here in a year, or he believed in less time; while in Scotland, even according to the present law, a settlement could not be made under three years. It was now attempted to extend the period to seven years; a change which would have the effect of relieving Scotland at
372Mr. Estcourt
 thought it would be very difficult to assimilate the laws of England and Scotland in this respect, while there existed so great a difference between their laws in other respects. He bore testimony to the good conduct of the poor Irish who emigrated, and some of whom settled in Scotland, but represented their multitudes as most alarming. It was a mistake to suppose that they had not poor-laws in Scotland. They had, but the people were too independent in mind to depend upon those laws. The present facility of gaining a settlement in Scotland would burthen it beyond its capability.Mr. Fergusson
 said, that the present bill was anxiously desired by the people of Scotland, under an apprehension that, without it, that country could not bear the burthen imposed on it by the emigrations from Ireland; especially as in Ireland they had no reciprocal provision for their poor.Mr. Maxwell
 said, that though the effect of this measure would be one which he must regret as far as England was concerned, it could not fail to be of considerable advantage to Scotland. The object of the bill was to keep the poor Irish out of Scotland; but he feared the effect of it would be to make them come in greater numbers into this country; and if Scotland was exempted from the consequences of that evil, and England was more exposed to its influence, hon. gentlemen must not wonder that the English representatives should show some jealousy as to its success. The bill seemed scarcely to place England and Scotland on a fair footing; since it went to free the former from an evil which would only fall the heavier upon the latter.Sir E. Knatchbull
373 did not consider it fair to object to a law on the ground that, though it was a good law in itself, the people of Scotland ought not to have it, because the people of England had a bad law upon the same subject. He thought the people of England were called upon to protect themselves against the additional pressure which the influx of the Irish poor flung upon their poor-rates, if no measure were
373Mr. Hume
 said, that though he supported this bill, he did not object to the introduction of Irish labourers into either England or Scotland, on the score of the reduction which it produced in the rate of wages. It might be an evil; but he did not know how to prevent it, unless they prevented all intercourse between the three countries. The times were bad now, but it was not unreasonable to hope that they would be better soon. It was intended to prevent any future burthen from being imposed on Scotland, in the shape of poor-rates. The Scotch had no means of preventing the Irish labourer from settling among them; neither did he wish that they had. What he wished was, to prevent the Irish labourer from obtaining any settlement in Scotland without a previous residence of three years or more within it. In Scotland, the people wanted no support for their poor, either from England or Ireland: all they wanted was, that each country should support its own poor. How that consummation was to be brought about, was another question; but he thought it unjust that England and Scotland should be called upon to provide for the poor of Ireland, merely because Ireland would not provide for them herself.Mr. Fergusson
374 said, it must have been observed by the House, that almost every gentleman who admitted the benefit which had accrued to England and Scotland from the introduction of Irish labourers
374Sir J. Newport
 said, that so far was he from feeling any hostility towards the natives of Ireland, that he had absolutely introduced this bill to do away with any hostile feelings which their influx into Scotland might have generated. For his own part, he wished to be able to deal more liberally with the Irish paupers than he could do under the existing law. The Irish poor were at present relieved in Scotland upon as niggardly a scale as was possible, from a prevalent belief, that if they were relieved more liberally, a greater number of them would come over, and thus a greater burthen would be thrown upon the country. The hon. member for Kent seemed to dread the effects of this measure upon England. Now, he was sanguine enough to hope that this measure would confer benefit upon Scotland, though not to any large amount; and he was quite certain that England would not suffer by it. He did not think that this bill would turn the tide of Irish emigration from Scotland into England, nor that it would even turn it from flowing direct to Scotland. He did not believe that the crowds of Irishmen who landed almost every day in Scotland, came there for the purpose of obtaining a settlement in either three years or seven. They were driven by the craving wants of nature to get that support in Scotland, which they were not able to find at home. He hoped that when they did come to Scotland, the people would treat them well; but he also hoped that they would not permit them to become a permanent burthen upon their industry. Such was the principle of the measure which he had introduced into the House.Mr. Kennedy
 supported the motion, and expressed a hope that the learned member would obtain, as he deserved, the thanks of the country for his exertions to amend the law in this respect.Mr. Wallace
371370369 rose to move for "leave to bring in a Bill to amend the Act of the 3rd of William and Mary, chap. 14th, for the Relief of Creditors against Fraudulent Devises, and a similar Act of the 4th of Anne, relative to Ireland." The hon. and learned gentleman went into an historical review of the law of Devises, from the enactment of the law called Statute Merchant, passed in the reign of Edward 1st, for the assurance of debts, which he observed proceeded on the basis of the old law of that day, evidently founded on the still older system of the feudal law. That law had been framed with reference to the exigences of the times, and like most laws thus judiciously framed, it had, either by the ingenuity of the judges, or the consent of the people generally, been accommodated to the improved state of society, and generally acted on since. By this law, an attempt had been made to render the property of the higher orders extra-commercial; which, in effect, proved a public benefit to the community. At that period the existence of a great public debt was unknown in this country, spreading itself over a large portion of the property of the community, and the enactment he contemplated would have been almost needless. Since that period, the state of society and of property had materially changed; and this change had produced an impression on his mind, that it would be wise to extend the statute of king-Edward, for the assurance of debts, which now only affected landed property, to property in the funds; for why should a man who was possessed of large property in the funds, be allowed, as he was at present, to live in prison, rioting and wasting that property in defiance of his creditors, and defeating the intentions of the legislature? The object of this bill was, to render the property of any man dying in the possession of a large sum of money or funded property, liable to the payment of that person's debts, though in the hands or possession of the heir or a devisee. Our law knew of but two sorts of debts—specialty debts, and debts on simple contract. Estates descending to the heir were bound by specialty debts; but in case of a devise to a stranger, if the party possessed himself of the property under the devise, and spent it before this action was brought by the testator's creditor, no remedy remained for the
371370369Mr. Sugden
 said, he congratulated the learned gentleman upon the course he had taken upon this occasion, as he, for one, had set the learned member down as an opponent of all reform in the court of Chancery. If the hon. member acted up to his statements of that evening, he would effect all that was desired by those most anxious to reform the abuses of that court. He thought that the estates of a debtor, dying possessed of landed property, ought to be made available to the payment of his debts, as well as personal property.Mr. Hume
455454453452"Should the necessary concessions be decided on, the advantages of its proceeding from government will naturally suggest themselves. Much benefit might arise from the boon being attributable to that settlement under which we are hereafter to live. It would make the Catholics in Ireland feel that their exclusion has been the necessary consequence of a separate constitution, and that their advantages have arisen out of an incorporation with Great Britain. It is idle to hope that Dissenters of any denomination or description can ever be so zealously attached subjects as those who are of the established religion; but the question is, what system, without hazarding the power of the state itself, is best calculated, if not warmly to attach, at least to disarm, the hostility of those classes in the community who cannot be got rid of, and must be governed. This latter consideration is of most pressing importance with respect to Ireland. That kingdom must in fact be considered as a country of security, and if we are to indulge an expectation that it may be redeemed from its present miseries, it must be by the adoption of some system, which, without relaxing the energy of government, shall relieve the public mind from its fundamental principles of perpetual struggle. Unless the power and stability of the united government shall afford the means in safety of adopting some principles of compromise amongst the contending factions, the difficulty of governing the country will rapidly increase, as every war adds materially to the relative importance of the dissenting interests. If the same internal struggle continues, Great Britain will derive little beyond an increasing expense from the Union. If
452451450"The leading part of his majesty's ministers, finding insurmountable obstacles to the bringing forward measures of concession to the Catholic body, whilst in office, have felt it impossible to continue in administration, under their inability to propose it, with the circumstances necessary to carrying the measure with all its advantages; and they have retired from his majesty's service, considering this line of conduct as most likely to contribute to its ultimate success. The Catholic body will, therefore, see how much their future hopes must depend upon strengthening their cause by good conduct in the mean time. They will prudently consider their prospects as arising from the persons who now espouse their interests, and compare them with those which they could look to from any other quarter: they may rely on the zealous support of all those who retire, and of many who remain in office, when it can be given with a prospect of success. They may be assured that Mr. Pitt will do his utmost to establish their cause in the public favour, and prepare the way to their finally attaining their objects; and the Catholics will feel, that as Mr. Pitt could not concur in a hopeless attempt to force it now, that he must at all times repress, with the same decision as if he held an adverse opinion, any unconstitutional conduct in the Catholic body. Under these circumstances, it was not to be doubted that the Catholics will take the most loyal, dutiful, and patient, line of conduct; that they will not suffer themselves to be led into measures which can, by any construction, give a handle to the opposers of their wishes, either to
450449448447"Speaking" observed Mr. Howard "of the inflamed state of the mind between sect and sect, I said that I thought it was owing to him that it had not come to the full extent of mutual extermination, which I conceived had been daily gaining ground. This, lord Cornwallis said, must have been the event. I trusted, however, that with respect to the Catholics, as it appeared to be the interest to conciliate them, that would be an object of the Union, and that without it, I thought the Union was nothing. He repeated that certainly without it the Union was nothing; that it was, however, impossible to bring any thing forward before, because in an Irish parliament it would not be carried. I said that, however, the silence and mystery created both uneasiness and impatience. He answered, that he believed it to be so, but that he thought the Catholics had shown a great deal of temper, more than he could have expected, by some joining for it, none appearing
447"Whatever was at first the subject of conversation, it soon turned to the impending measure of Union, and with me generally to the interest the Catholic would derive from it. He always called the exclusion of Catholics the odious monopoly, and repeatedly urged that the measure was the only means of getting rid of it. But he further, particularly on two occasions, desired me to speak to all the Catholics I knew, and which I did, to urge them to place confidence in him for success. 'If they will only place their trust in me, it will be to their best advantage.' Of course I repeated this to every Catholic I knew, and among the rest to lord Fingall, who will remember it, and to whom he had said this and more. I recollect also, that Dr. Moylan told me that lord Cornwallis had spoken to him to the same effect. I do not believe that lord Cornwallis was capable of deception; and inferred then, as I must now, that this had been assented to by both the king and the cabinet (and though this did not amount to an absolute pledge in words, yet, from a gentleman and a chief governor, it could not be interpreted otherwise), I cannot attribute the failure in any other way than to the subsequent state of the king's mind."446445444"Ireland requires a legislature founded on a broader and more liberal basis to administer important laws to all, and reconcile security with justice. In the United parliament, right may be done unaccompanied with wrong, Irish Catholics may be invested with their political capacities without the slightest danger to Protestant establishment or property. He considered the probable admission of the Catholics as the principal recommendation of the measure of Union, when disposed to have an article to that effect, but would not hazard the measure, and would expect it as a natural consequence of the Union."443"The Protestants would of course lay aside their jealousies and distrusts, being certain that against any attempt to endanger the Protestant Establishment in Ireland, the whole strength of the United parliament would be exerted, and, on the other hand, every Catholic who is a friend to the connexion with Great Britain, but is desirous to obtain any indulgence, and be admitted into a participation of every privilege and benefit consistent with that connection, would be confident that their cause would be candidly and impartially considered by a United Parliament, the great body of which would be free from those apprehensions, jealousies, and inveterate animosities interwoven into the frame and constitution of the separate Parliament of Ireland."442"The Protestant, so long as the Establishment remains separate, and is impeached on local grounds will feel his power, his property, and his establishment insecure, and must naturally look with distrust, and jealousy, on the Catholic. The Catholic will feel proportionate alienation and resentment, and will continually urge his claims against the establishment of the minority; and there appears no hope whatever of a termination to distrust, jealousy, and alarm. But so soon as the Church Establishment of the two kingdoms shall be incorporated into one Church, the Protestant will feel him-self at once identified with the population
442seriatim441440439438437 said, there was one point in the speech of the hon. baronet who had introduced this motion, in reference to the Union, to which he was desirous to advert, as he had been intimately connected with that transaction. But before he did so, he could not refrain from offering some observations on what had fallen from the learned Solicitor-general. The admirable exposition of the Treaty of Limerick, which had been given by the hon. baronet, had been characterized by the learned Solicitor-general as a most unstatesman-like view of it. Now, he did imagine, that when the learned gentleman applied such an epithet to what he considered a masterly and statesman-like view of that transaction, he would have been prepared to justify his description of it, not by a point of special pleading, but by some special act of parliament which followed that treaty. He was sure the hon. and learned gentleman must feel, that he had put not alone an unstatesman-like, but an illegal, construction upon the articles of that treaty. He would beg to call his attention to the words of the second article of the Treaty of Limerick. This article, the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to think was confined exclusively
455454453452"Should the necessary concessions be decided on, the advantages of its proceeding from government will naturally suggest themselves. Much benefit might arise from the boon being attributable to that settlement under which we are hereafter to live. It would make the Catholics in Ireland feel that their exclusion has been the necessary consequence of a separate constitution, and that their advantages have arisen out of an incorporation with Great Britain. It is idle to hope that Dissenters of any denomination or description can ever be so zealously attached subjects as those who are of the established religion; but the question is, what system, without hazarding the power of the state itself, is best calculated, if not warmly to attach, at least to disarm, the hostility of those classes in the community who cannot be got rid of, and must be governed. This latter consideration is of most pressing importance with respect to Ireland. That kingdom must in fact be considered as a country of security, and if we are to indulge an expectation that it may be redeemed from its present miseries, it must be by the adoption of some system, which, without relaxing the energy of government, shall relieve the public mind from its fundamental principles of perpetual struggle. Unless the power and stability of the united government shall afford the means in safety of adopting some principles of compromise amongst the contending factions, the difficulty of governing the country will rapidly increase, as every war adds materially to the relative importance of the dissenting interests. If the same internal struggle continues, Great Britain will derive little beyond an increasing expense from the Union. If
452451450"The leading part of his majesty's ministers, finding insurmountable obstacles to the bringing forward measures of concession to the Catholic body, whilst in office, have felt it impossible to continue in administration, under their inability to propose it, with the circumstances necessary to carrying the measure with all its advantages; and they have retired from his majesty's service, considering this line of conduct as most likely to contribute to its ultimate success. The Catholic body will, therefore, see how much their future hopes must depend upon strengthening their cause by good conduct in the mean time. They will prudently consider their prospects as arising from the persons who now espouse their interests, and compare them with those which they could look to from any other quarter: they may rely on the zealous support of all those who retire, and of many who remain in office, when it can be given with a prospect of success. They may be assured that Mr. Pitt will do his utmost to establish their cause in the public favour, and prepare the way to their finally attaining their objects; and the Catholics will feel, that as Mr. Pitt could not concur in a hopeless attempt to force it now, that he must at all times repress, with the same decision as if he held an adverse opinion, any unconstitutional conduct in the Catholic body. Under these circumstances, it was not to be doubted that the Catholics will take the most loyal, dutiful, and patient, line of conduct; that they will not suffer themselves to be led into measures which can, by any construction, give a handle to the opposers of their wishes, either to
450449448447"Speaking" observed Mr. Howard "of the inflamed state of the mind between sect and sect, I said that I thought it was owing to him that it had not come to the full extent of mutual extermination, which I conceived had been daily gaining ground. This, lord Cornwallis said, must have been the event. I trusted, however, that with respect to the Catholics, as it appeared to be the interest to conciliate them, that would be an object of the Union, and that without it, I thought the Union was nothing. He repeated that certainly without it the Union was nothing; that it was, however, impossible to bring any thing forward before, because in an Irish parliament it would not be carried. I said that, however, the silence and mystery created both uneasiness and impatience. He answered, that he believed it to be so, but that he thought the Catholics had shown a great deal of temper, more than he could have expected, by some joining for it, none appearing
447"Whatever was at first the subject of conversation, it soon turned to the impending measure of Union, and with me generally to the interest the Catholic would derive from it. He always called the exclusion of Catholics the odious monopoly, and repeatedly urged that the measure was the only means of getting rid of it. But he further, particularly on two occasions, desired me to speak to all the Catholics I knew, and which I did, to urge them to place confidence in him for success. 'If they will only place their trust in me, it will be to their best advantage.' Of course I repeated this to every Catholic I knew, and among the rest to lord Fingall, who will remember it, and to whom he had said this and more. I recollect also, that Dr. Moylan told me that lord Cornwallis had spoken to him to the same effect. I do not believe that lord Cornwallis was capable of deception; and inferred then, as I must now, that this had been assented to by both the king and the cabinet (and though this did not amount to an absolute pledge in words, yet, from a gentleman and a chief governor, it could not be interpreted otherwise), I cannot attribute the failure in any other way than to the subsequent state of the king's mind."446445444"Ireland requires a legislature founded on a broader and more liberal basis to administer important laws to all, and reconcile security with justice. In the United parliament, right may be done unaccompanied with wrong, Irish Catholics may be invested with their political capacities without the slightest danger to Protestant establishment or property. He considered the probable admission of the Catholics as the principal recommendation of the measure of Union, when disposed to have an article to that effect, but would not hazard the measure, and would expect it as a natural consequence of the Union."443"The Protestants would of course lay aside their jealousies and distrusts, being certain that against any attempt to endanger the Protestant Establishment in Ireland, the whole strength of the United parliament would be exerted, and, on the other hand, every Catholic who is a friend to the connexion with Great Britain, but is desirous to obtain any indulgence, and be admitted into a participation of every privilege and benefit consistent with that connection, would be confident that their cause would be candidly and impartially considered by a United Parliament, the great body of which would be free from those apprehensions, jealousies, and inveterate animosities interwoven into the frame and constitution of the separate Parliament of Ireland."442"The Protestant, so long as the Establishment remains separate, and is impeached on local grounds will feel his power, his property, and his establishment insecure, and must naturally look with distrust, and jealousy, on the Catholic. The Catholic will feel proportionate alienation and resentment, and will continually urge his claims against the establishment of the minority; and there appears no hope whatever of a termination to distrust, jealousy, and alarm. But so soon as the Church Establishment of the two kingdoms shall be incorporated into one Church, the Protestant will feel him-self at once identified with the population
442seriatim441440439438437Mr. M. Fitzgerald
470469468467466 said, that his only apology for obtruding himself on the House was one which he shared in common with his hon. and learned friend who had last spoken, as, since the subject had been under discussion, he had never offered his sentiments on the general question, although he had frequently done so on incidental matters connected with it.
470469468467466Lord F. L. Gower
419Id enim est firmissimum imperium quo obedientes gaudentcessante ratione cessat et ipsa lex418417416415"Where e'en the peasant knows his rights to scan,
And learns to venerate himself as man."414413412411410409408407406405404403402401400399398397396395394"Each new morn
New widows howled—new orphans cry'd—new sorrows
Struck Heaven on the face."393392391390389388" Whatever we, the Irish Papists, may have done, yet surely the Dissenters did not do any thing to render them liable to the same injustice, or to deserve worse at the hands of the government than other Protestants; but, on the contrary, it is more than probable, that if they (I mean the Dissenters) had not put a stop to the career of the Irish army at Enniskillen and Londonderry, the settlement of the government both in England and Scotland might not have proved so easy as it thereby did; for if that army had got to Scotland,—as
388387386385384383"and shall be put in possession, by order" of the government, of such of them as "are in the king's hands, or in the hands "of his tenants, without being put to any "suit or trouble therein; and all such "estates shall be freed and discharged "from all arrears of Crown rents, quit "rents, and other public charges incurred "and become due since Michaelmas, 1688, "to the day of the date hereof; and all "persons comprehended in this article, "shall have, hold, and enjoy, all their "goods and chattels, real and personal, "to them or any of them belonging and "remaining, either in their own hands or "the hands of any persons whatsoever, in "trust for, or for the use of them, or any" of them, and all and every the said persons, "of what profession, trade or calling "soever they be, shall and may use, exercise "and practise, their several and respective "professions, trades, and callings, as freely "as they did use, exercise, and enjoy, the "same in the reign of king Charles the "2nd; provided that nothing contained be "construed to extend to or restore any "forfeiting person now out of the kingdom, "except what are hereafter comprised, "provided also, that no person whatsoever "shall have or enjoy the benefit of this "article, that shall neglect, or refuse, "to take, the Oath of Allegiance made "by act of Parliament in England, in the "first year of the reign of their present "Majesties, when thereunto required."382381"The Roman Catholics of this kingdom "shall enjoy such privileges in the exercise "of their religion, as are consistent with "the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy "in the reign of Charles 2nd; and their "Majesties, as soon as their affairs will permit "them to summon a parliament in this" kingdom, will endeavour to procure the "said Roman Catholics such further security "in that particular, as may preserve "them from any disturbances upon the account "of their said religion."" I think it necessary," said the right hon. gentleman, "to state, that I will not shrink from what I said, when this question was discussed in 1825, and which was as follows—that if I could be satisfied, that any of the political privileges which were withheld from the Roman Catholics of Ireland, were withheld in violation of the Treaty of Limerick, it would very materially influence my judgment in deciding on the present question: but, after having examined into this matter, with the greatest attention, I feel a more perfect conviction, that that Treaty afforded the Roman Catholics of Ireland no claims whatever to have their disabilities removed."380379"Maudlin's learned grove.""Ostendisse juvat.""Pars tua sit, Cornute, animuæ tibi, dulcis amice,"—quantaque nostræ,378Tu vero felix, Agricola, non vitœ tantum claritate, sed etiam opportunitate mortis."377376 rose, and addressed the House to the following effect:—419Id enim est firmissimum imperium quo obedientes gaudentcessante ratione cessat et ipsa lex418417416415"Where e'en the peasant knows his rights to scan,
And learns to venerate himself as man."414413412411410409408407406405404403402401400399398397396395394"Each new morn
New widows howled—new orphans cry'd—new sorrows
Struck Heaven on the face."393392391390389388" Whatever we, the Irish Papists, may have done, yet surely the Dissenters did not do any thing to render them liable to the same injustice, or to deserve worse at the hands of the government than other Protestants; but, on the contrary, it is more than probable, that if they (I mean the Dissenters) had not put a stop to the career of the Irish army at Enniskillen and Londonderry, the settlement of the government both in England and Scotland might not have proved so easy as it thereby did; for if that army had got to Scotland,—as
388387386385384383"and shall be put in possession, by order" of the government, of such of them as "are in the king's hands, or in the hands "of his tenants, without being put to any "suit or trouble therein; and all such "estates shall be freed and discharged "from all arrears of Crown rents, quit "rents, and other public charges incurred "and become due since Michaelmas, 1688, "to the day of the date hereof; and all "persons comprehended in this article, "shall have, hold, and enjoy, all their "goods and chattels, real and personal, "to them or any of them belonging and "remaining, either in their own hands or "the hands of any persons whatsoever, in "trust for, or for the use of them, or any" of them, and all and every the said persons, "of what profession, trade or calling "soever they be, shall and may use, exercise "and practise, their several and respective "professions, trades, and callings, as freely "as they did use, exercise, and enjoy, the "same in the reign of king Charles the "2nd; provided that nothing contained be "construed to extend to or restore any "forfeiting person now out of the kingdom, "except what are hereafter comprised, "provided also, that no person whatsoever "shall have or enjoy the benefit of this "article, that shall neglect, or refuse, "to take, the Oath of Allegiance made "by act of Parliament in England, in the "first year of the reign of their present "Majesties, when thereunto required."382381"The Roman Catholics of this kingdom "shall enjoy such privileges in the exercise "of their religion, as are consistent with "the laws of Ireland, or as they did enjoy "in the reign of Charles 2nd; and their "Majesties, as soon as their affairs will permit "them to summon a parliament in this" kingdom, will endeavour to procure the "said Roman Catholics such further security "in that particular, as may preserve "them from any disturbances upon the account "of their said religion."" I think it necessary," said the right hon. gentleman, "to state, that I will not shrink from what I said, when this question was discussed in 1825, and which was as follows—that if I could be satisfied, that any of the political privileges which were withheld from the Roman Catholics of Ireland, were withheld in violation of the Treaty of Limerick, it would very materially influence my judgment in deciding on the present question: but, after having examined into this matter, with the greatest attention, I feel a more perfect conviction, that that Treaty afforded the Roman Catholics of Ireland no claims whatever to have their disabilities removed."380379"Maudlin's learned grove.""Ostendisse juvat.""Pars tua sit, Cornute, animuæ tibi, dulcis amice,"—quantaque nostræ,378Tu vero felix, Agricola, non vitœ tantum claritate, sed etiam opportunitate mortis."377376Sir Francis Burdett
432431430429428Premunire427426425"Sensus moresque repugnant,
Atque ipsa utilitas, justi propè mater et æqui."424423l422421420 said, that nothing would have induced him to offer himself at that early period of the debate, but his great anxiety to explain to the House and to the country the grounds on which he intended to give his present vote. He would endeavour to make that explanation with the same moderation and candour which
432431430429428Premunire427426425"Sensus moresque repugnant,
Atque ipsa utilitas, justi propè mater et æqui."424423l422421420The Solicitor-general
461460459458457456 said, he felt it his duty to make one observation upon what had been thrown out with respect to the Treaty of Limerick. It was not his intention to discuss that subject fully; the able manner in which the learned Solicitor-general had answered the arguments founded upon that treaty precluded the necessity of his adding any thing upon the subject. He wished, however, to call the attention of the House to a cotemporary authority, a proclamation that was issued by the Irish parliament, which, making use of the same language as the treaty, said, that they should be allowed the free exercise of their religious worship. He would ask the House whether the terms meant to imply any thing of a political nature, and whether their meaning must not be limited by the preamble of the proclamation, which was confined to religion? He would now add a word or two upon the line of argument which had been pursued by the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. "With respect to Mr. Pitt, he would say, that that statesman told them that in argument, and in argument alone, the Union would give facilities, not so much to the accomplishment of the measure, as to the fair discussion of it. He would appeal to the authority of Mr. Pitt himself, not only for the correctness of the spirit of this proposition, but for carrying the proposition farther than he had stated it. Mr. Pitt, in holding out the advantages which would result from the Union, not only held out to the Catholics, but to the Protestants also, the prospect of a fair and calm discussion of their rights. Mr. Pitt, on the 13th of May, 1805, in reply to what had fallen from Mr. Fox, said "I also felt that, in no possible case, previous to the Union, could the privileges now demanded be given, consistently with a due
461460459458457456Mr. Moore
465464463462 said, he trusted the House would excuse in him the natural anxiety which he felt to state his sentiments on the present occasion, and the more especially, as he never before had addressed the House on this question. The anxiety he felt to be permitted to say a few words, did not arise from any expectation on his part, that he could add any thing to what had been already urged upon that important subject; that he could by any new fact, or any new argument, give the slightest additional weight to those of the speakers who, on that and on other occasions, had addressed the House. For many years he had been an attentive observer of all that had been passing in Ireland, and he trusted he had observed what had been passing on that distressful scene, with a temper which entitled him to be called impartial. He had mingled with the ardent and the violent of both parties, he hoped without having imbibed the prejudices of either, he threfore trusted that the House would bear with him, while he shortly stated the
465464463462Mr. Doherty
436435434433 said, that in rising to support the motion which had been brought forward by the hon. baronet, he felt himself bound, in duty to himself and to the House, to state the reasons which induced him to do so. The opinions which had been entertained on this subject by his lamented father were well known, and if he did not feel a reverence for that father's opinions, he should not only not be worthy of a seat in that House, but he should not be worthy to hold up his head in society. It might be well supposed, that the sentiments of his lamented parent had had a great influence in the formation of his political opinions; indeed, from his habits and education, he was naturally biassed against the question which had been that night submitted to their decision. But when he came to reflect upon the subject, he began to waver, and when he first had the honour of a seat in that House, his mind had already been pretty nearly convinced that the fears and alarms which were excited upon the subject were not the offspring of sound wisdom, and had not any foundation in fact. Impressed, however, as he then was, with those doubts, yet wishing to pay a due deference to the opinions of that parent whose name he should ever respect, and being unwilling to hazard his own judgment in opposition to them, he gave at the time a silent vote against the measure. In acting thus upon that occasion, he trusted he had done nothing which was unbecoming, or which could now be thrown in his face as inconsistent with his present line of conduct.436435434433Mr. Perceval
531semper eadem530 said, that entertaining, as he did, a strong and decided opinion upon this subject, and representing, as he did, those who entertained opinions equally strong and decided with himself, he could not reconcile it to his sense of public duty to give a silent vote upon this occasion. It had been stated, during- the debate of last night, by an hon. gentleman below him, who had addressed the House with great effect, that although the Roman Catholic religion was still unchanged and unaltered in its principles, he considered it to be greatly modified, mitigated, and controlled by the spirit of the age in its practice. Now, although he was ready to subscribe to the first part of the hon. member's proposition, he could not see any reason for sub-
531semper eadem530The Hon. William Duncombe
548547"Nullum numen abest si sit prudentia.""Nos facimus, Fortuna, Deam, cæloque locamus:"" Sed te,546545 said, he hoped for the indulgence of the House, as the present was the first occasion that he had taken to express his sentiments upon this subject. His hon. friend who had just addressed the House, appeared to him to
548547"Nullum numen abest si sit prudentia.""Nos facimus, Fortuna, Deam, cæloque locamus:"" Sed te,546545Mr. Wilmot Horton
588587586585584583582581580579578577576sub silentio.575sub silentio:574573572571570569568 said, that the right hon. gentleman who had last spoken held out little encouragement to discussion, on the part of those opposed to him. According to his view, those who happened to think the laws which he desired to get rid of connected with the security of the Protestant Church, stood opposed to such a mass of authority, as well as such a force of general opinion, as ought to induce them at once to defer, almost without taking the trouble to exercise their judgments. But though he admitted the combination of talent by which those who resisted the question before the House were opposed, and the truth and the sincerity of the conversions which had recently taken place upon it, still those in whose minds no disposition to change existed, but who rather found their original belief strengthened by consi-
588587586585584583582581580579578577576sub silentio.575sub silentio:574573572571570569568Mr. Secretary Peel
595594593 said, that the situation which he had the honour to hold in the government of Ireland, imposed upon him the necessity of trespassing, for a short period, upon the attention of hon. members; and he could not avoid feeling that the repeated discussions of this question—argued, as it had been, over and over, and considered in every possible point of view—justified him in the determination to be brief in his observations; and, considering this question, as he should do, with reference to the times in which we lived, and the circumstances under which we were now called upon to consider it, he felt himself bound to exclude many of those topics which had been, on former occasions, introduced. He should leave out of his arguments all those laws passed at the Reformation and the Revolution; not because he had no respect for those laws, but because, if parliament should think that they were irreconcileable with present times, and that it would be wise to change them, parliament had unquestionably the power so to do. Those laws were not irrevocable, and might be changed. He should also omit from his arguments all comments on the spirit manifested by the Roman Catholic laity and clergy; because if he admitted it was hostile and to be condemned, his opinion was, that it was aggravated by exclusion, and might be softened by conciliation. The only means of meeting, the certain method of averting, all danger was by some such measure as that proposed by the hon. baronet. If the removal of disqualifications was to be considered as not consistent with a Protestant government, he should deeply regret it; because it would not augur well for the future peace and tranquillity of the country. He would say to the British House of com-
595594593The Hon. William Lamb
 rose to address the House, but the cries of "question," "with draw," and "adjourn," became so loud and general, as to prevent the right hon. gentleman from being heard. After several ineffectual attempts to gain attention, he resumed his seat. Lord Sandon then moved the adjournment of the debate to Monday; which was agreed to.Mr. C. Grant
589 rose to explain. The right hon. gentleman, he said, appeared to think that he had stated his belief of the existence of a combination among the Catholic population of Ireland, excited by the influence of the priesthood. Now, what he said was, that the spiritual influence of the Catholic priests was under the political dominion of the Catholic leaders, and that the entire population
589Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 said, he should vote for the motion of the hon. baronet, and felt convinced that, if the Catholics were admitted to equal rights, they would prove as loyal and as grateful subjects as any in the realm. He was anxious to vote in favour of a cause, the success of which he conscientiously felt to be intimately connected with the peace and prosperity of Ireland, and the well-being of the empire.Lord W. Paget
592591590 said, that when he considered the manner in which the question had been introduced to the notice of the House by the hon. baronet, and reflected on the way in which it had been conducted up to the present moment, he could not but entertain a hope of its ultimate success. He should not say one word in relation to the Treaty of Limerick. The right hon. gentleman, after what had been adduced by the hon. baronet on the subject, was, no doubt, justified in discussing it in the copious manner he had that night done. At all events, he could readily conceive how much easier and more agreeable it was to do so, than, as a British minister, to deal with the necessities of the present case and period. With respect to the Union it was not his intention to add any thing to what had been already said. It might be desirable to know what were the views of Mr. Pitt and the cabinet of the day in regard to the connection between that measure and Catholic Emancipation; but it was still more important to learn what the right hon. gentleman opposite and the present cabinet were disposed to do with respect to the latter question. The proposition of the hon. baronet affected the interests of seven millions of people, who came before the House, praying to be admitted to equal rights with the rest of their fellow-subjects. He never could admit that there was any thing unconstitutional in the case which the petitioners brought before the House. It was certainly the duty of a government to protect itself from those holding opinions hostile to its interests. No one, for instance, would give the office of chancellor of the Exchequer to an Anabaptist, who held that all things should be in com-
592591590Mr. Brownlow
538And till she stoop, she must not be full gorg'd."My faulcon now is sharp, and passing empty;And 'tis my hope to end successfully:"Thus have I politicly begun my reign,537536535534533532 said, he was ready to take up the mode of discussing this subject which had been suggested by the hon. gentleman opposite, and was accordingly prepared to do so without reference to the principle of abstract right, and merely upon the point of expediency. Agreeing, therefore, on this basis for the argument, he desired no more remote reference than the act of Union furnished in support of the view which he was prepared to take of this question. Among the great variety of feelings and opinions which prevailed in Ireland, with reference to her moral
538And till she stoop, she must not be full gorg'd."My faulcon now is sharp, and passing empty;And 'tis my hope to end successfully:"Thus have I politicly begun my reign,537536535534533532Mr. Villiers Stuart
 in explanation, said, that his observations had been applied, not to an individual, but to a class of members, whose opinions might, possibly, be the means of dispossessing them of their seats. For should they persevere in the maintenance of such opinions, the Catholics would make the votes of members on this question (most unwisely as he thought) the sole criterion of their merits as representatives in Parliament.Mr. Doherty
544543" Nos facimus, Fortuna, Deam, cæloque locamus."" Sed te542541540539 began by asserting, that he was no Orangeman, belonged to no party, and had never been at a public meeting where this question had been discussed. He saw a specific danger in. the proposition of the hon. baronet; and he had not yet seen, nor been able to understand, what preservative was intended. It was now nearly twenty years since he had first resisted the claims of the Catholics, who required political power and to become agents in the constitution of the country. The statements he had then made were, by many, considered visionary, and especially the anticipation in which he had indulged, that the time would come when the Catholic clergy would be seen exerting their influence at elections. His fears had been verified, and at an earlier
544543" Nos facimus, Fortuna, Deam, cæloque locamus."" Sed te542541540539Mr. Leslie Foster
*527526525***quoad hoc524***523***522‡ Appendix to Report (1816) p. 464.***521‡ Eighteenth Section of the Regulation dated Stockholm, February 10th. 1810. Supplementary Papers, 1817, p. 43.† Supplementary Papers, 1817, p. 41–43.***520‡ Letter to a Layman on the Coronation Oath, 1828.† Foreign and Domestic View of the Catholic Question, by H. Gally Knight, Esq. 1828.***519"They think as the most enlightened men in England thought seventy or eighty years ago. Pulteney and Pelham would no more have given political power to Papists than to Ourang-outangs."and uneducated, not with the dissolute and turbulent—but with the great body of the middling orders; of those who live in comfort, and have received some instruction. Of the higher classes the decided majority is beyond all dispute, with the Catholics. The lower classes care nothing at all about the question. It is among those whose influence is generally asserted for the most salutary purposes—among those, from whom liberal statesmen have, in general, received the strongest support—among those who feel the deepest detestation of oppression and corruption, that erroneous opinions on this subject are most frequent.adverecundiam,ad verecundiam,518‡ Edinburgh Review, vol. xlvi. p. 253. "The friends of the Catholics have, indeed, too long kept out of sight the real difficulty which impedes the progress of all measures for their relief. There has been a nervous reluctance—perhaps a natural unwillingness, to approach this subject. Yet it is of the utmost importance that it should at last be fully understood. The difficulty, we believe, is neither with the King nor with the Cabinet—neither with the Commons, nor with the Lords. It is with the people of England; and not with the corrupt nor with the servile, not with the rude†Dr. Phillpotts has quoted the unanimous thanks of the Meeting at Ballinasloe, (present "His Grace the Catholic Archbishop of Tuam in the Chair,") to Mr. Shiel, "the pride and bulwark of his suffering fellow-countrymen."—Phillpots' Letter on the Coronation Oath, 1828, p. 201.***517§ Speech on Church Rates, 1827, p. 12. It is no more "foreign" to Dublin, than it is to Cornwall or to Cumberland. The whole passage is this: he is speaking of the Church-rate Bill—"In fact, this Act was stolen upon us by the means of that ignorance of what is going on in a foreign parliament, which that most mischievous measure, the Union, necessarily produced."‡ Letter to Mr. Robertson, in Letters on the Re-union of the Churches, p. 47.† Letters of J. K. L. p. 35.***516† If every state ought to establish the religious sect which is the most numerous, the establishment, so elected by the state, may vary every year, or with every parliament. The true principle appears to me to be this, viz. that the governing powers of a state, being responsible to God for the well-being of the people committed by Him to their charge, should give to that people such facilities of education and of worship as they, the governors, think to be most consistent with truth and wisdom; leaving to the people to choose, as they will, any other modes either of instruction or of religion.***515***514‡ In the collected works, vol. i. p. 100, the phrase is vague, and dilated "into every privilege compatible with the constitution." If the phrase were altered by Mr. Grattan on the ground of any growing disinclination to "the Protestant ascendancy," it is a fresh proof of the hazard of taking the opinions of any advocate of the Roman Catholic claims as a given standard at any one time: if the phrase were altered not by him, but by others, it loses all the authority due to his name. I give a definition of Protestant ascendancy by a high constitutional Irish whig in 1792. "By Protestant ascendancy" (said Mr. Sheridan, cousin of R. B. Sheridan), "he meant a Protestant king, to whom only, being Protestant, we owed allegiance; a Protestant House of Peers, composed of Protestant lords spiritual in Protestant succession, of Protestant lords temporal with Protestant inheritance; a Protestant House of Commons elected and deputed by Protestant constituents; in short, a Protestant legislative, a Protestant judicial, and a Protestant executive, in all and each of their varieties, degrees, and gradations." Irish Debates, vol. xii. p. 135, 18th Febr. 1792. Of Sheridan, then member for Charlemont, see Hardy's Life of Lord Charlemont, vol. ii. p. 316–320.† Feb. 15, 1782. Irish Debates, vol. i. p. 243.***513† Irish Debates, vol. i. p. 257–259.*********512***511§ Votes, 1827, p. 632,‡ "Gratitude soon wears out," as Wolfe Tone says, speaking of the feelings of his Roman Catholic clients in respect to the concessions of 1793, while he was pointing out to them other and higher objects, i. 187—"When Mr. Secretary Hobart pressed the Roman Catholics of that day to say that they were satisfied, those who were willing to say so argued that the minister did not say the Catholics were to acquiesce for ever under the measures intended, but only that the public mind should not be irritated; that every accession of strength enabled them the better to secure the remainder," &c.—Wolfe Tone, i. 93,† Journals, 1824, p. 446.******510† Dr. Doyle's letter to Mr. Robertson, in Letters on the Re-union of the Churches, p. 4.***509‡ Butler, p. 14. See a similar passage by the late Dr, Milner, in the Appendix p. 168.† Butler, p. 10.********508‡ He was of the House of Ormonde [see evidence before the Commons, 1825]. His work is entitled "Justification of the Tenets of the Roman Catholic Religion, and a Refutation of the Charges brought against its Clergy, by the Right Rev. Lord Bishop of Cloyne. By Dr. James Butler." 1787.† Berkley's Miscellanies, p. 108–9.***507506***505judgment,conscienceentis,504**animus impon-*503Ibid.*Ibid.****502‡ Plowden's "Ireland since the Union," vol. ii., p. 120.******501500‡ Speech of the right hon. W. Pitt, on the Union, 31st Jan. 1799, pp. 39, 40. Wright. London. 1799.† "In discussing the subject, I must often allude to a speech published as Mr. Pitt's, and as various editions of it have been circulated, I shall select that to which the government has given the sanction of it's authority, the one printed by the king's printer, under their direction, of which ten thousand copies have been circulated gratis by them, and all of which have been paid for at the public expense." Speech of the right hon. John Foster, 11th April, 1799, p. 1. London, 1799.***499† Arguments for and against an Union between Great Britain and Ireland, considered Dublin and London, Dec. 1798.***498**comme ci-devant,*497***496***495† See Art. 1st, 5th, 12th, besides their majesty's own reference to it in their words of confirmation.***494† The protest in the Irish House of Lords against this bill was signed by fourteen peers, of whom seven were bishops; and seems to have been founded in some measure upon the injury which would arise to property by expunging, at such an interval, words introduced into the treaty at its ratification. "Because we apprehend many Protestants may, and will, suffer by this bill, in their just rights and pretensions, by reason of their having purchased and lent money upon the credit of the said articles, and as we conceive in several other respects." Lords' Journals (Ireland), 23 Sept. 1697, vol. i. p. 635.***493║ Speeches, 1828, p. 55.§ See Story, ii. 257. See also Continuation of Rapin, xiii. 474.‡ Speeches, 1828, p. 54.† Burnet, ii. 81.***492491‡ The King's Answer is dated 10th of March 1692, Journals, x. p. 848.‡ Journals, 4th of March, 1692, Vol. x. p. 842–3.*********490***489488║It appears by Story, ii. 165, that major general Talmash was believed to be inclined o lay aside the treaty, i. e. not to grant even such terms to the garrison and town.§ Curry, p. 93. in Browne, p. 23.‡ Browne, p. 33.† Leland, iii. 466.***487‡ 17 and 18 Car. 2nd, c. 6. § 6. See Browne, p. 33.† Brief Review of the Question, whether the Articles of Limerick have been violated, by Arthur Browne, esq. representative in parliament for the University of Dublin.—Dublin, 8vo. 1783.***********486**in the exercise of their religion;"in that particular"*totidem literis,485pace domini regis,pari passu,*pace domini regis,pari passu,**484***483‡ Speeches of Daniel O'Connell, esq. and, Richard Shiel, esq,—Dublin, 1828. p. 48.***482***481‡ By the proclamation of the lords justices, dated Jan. 1692, this phrase is explained to mean "housekeepers with estates of freehold of one hundred pounds a year"—Story, vol. ii. p. 298.† Story, vol. ii. p. 200.****be granted or taken away? **l*480† Mr. O'Connell is reported to have said [Speeches, 12mo. Dublin, 1828. p. 53], "Yet Mr. Peel pretends to have discovered that all the immunities guaranteed by the Treaty of limerick are included in a power merely to pray. What impudent nonsense! How could that***479***478of Limerick, "dispatched an express to St. Germain's, to beg either a speedy succour, or leave to make conditions for themselves."—[King James's Memoirs, ii. 459]. He goes on, "but the enemie pressed too hard to give any great hopes they (the Irish) could wait the relief which was to come from a country so remote: they made my lord Tyrconnel aprehend the army would capitulate in spite of his teeth; and many persons of distinction were so much inclined that way, as had like to have brought it about even before the enemie apeared in sight of the town."—ii. 460. Again, in p, 462. The Irish officers were so impatient to make terms with the English army before Limerick, (1691), that Tyrconnel had great difficulty in managing them: "but he pressed them only to have patience twenty days, there being no likelyhood of their being forced so soon, and that in so much time an answer might be had from the king:"—but, whilst he was thus struggling, he was seized with apoplexy, on St. Lawrence's day, and died two or three days after, 14th August, 1691.—See Story's Wars in Ireland, ii. p. 187.477† The last words of Tyrconnel were, "not to let things go to extremities, but to accept of such terms as could be got;" "and his words," says Burnet, "seemed to weigh more after his death than in his life-time, for the Irish began generally to say, that they must take care of themselves, and not be made sacrifices to serve the ends of the French." [Burnet, ii. p. 80.] This is further evident from king James's own Memoirs. On the surrender of Galway in the preceding month, 20th July, 1691, Tyrconnel, after making all preparations for the defence***i. e.476***475***474swhich the duke of Norfolk, the premier duke and earl of England, is withheld from his seat in parliament, with the privation by which a freeholder of 39s473***castellss472**ad verecundiam: when, at one o'clock this morning, I proposed that the further discussion of this question should be postponed to the present time, I should, if I had consulted my own inclination only, have greatly preferred to solicit the attention of the House to the observations which at the time I was desirous of addressing to you. But, though I have always experienced the indulgence of the House, I felt, that, at such an hour, and after such a debate, I could not hope to receive, and certainly had no right to ask, their patience.*527526525***quoad hoc524***523***522‡ Appendix to Report (1816) p. 464.***521‡ Eighteenth Section of the Regulation dated Stockholm, February 10th. 1810. Supplementary Papers, 1817, p. 43.† Supplementary Papers, 1817, p. 41–43.***520‡ Letter to a Layman on the Coronation Oath, 1828.† Foreign and Domestic View of the Catholic Question, by H. Gally Knight, Esq. 1828.***519"They think as the most enlightened men in England thought seventy or eighty years ago. Pulteney and Pelham would no more have given political power to Papists than to Ourang-outangs."and uneducated, not with the dissolute and turbulent—but with the great body of the middling orders; of those who live in comfort, and have received some instruction. Of the higher classes the decided majority is beyond all dispute, with the Catholics. The lower classes care nothing at all about the question. It is among those whose influence is generally asserted for the most salutary purposes—among those, from whom liberal statesmen have, in general, received the strongest support—among those who feel the deepest detestation of oppression and corruption, that erroneous opinions on this subject are most frequent.adverecundiam,ad verecundiam,518‡ Edinburgh Review, vol. xlvi. p. 253. "The friends of the Catholics have, indeed, too long kept out of sight the real difficulty which impedes the progress of all measures for their relief. There has been a nervous reluctance—perhaps a natural unwillingness, to approach this subject. Yet it is of the utmost importance that it should at last be fully understood. The difficulty, we believe, is neither with the King nor with the Cabinet—neither with the Commons, nor with the Lords. It is with the people of England; and not with the corrupt nor with the servile, not with the rude†Dr. Phillpotts has quoted the unanimous thanks of the Meeting at Ballinasloe, (present "His Grace the Catholic Archbishop of Tuam in the Chair,") to Mr. Shiel, "the pride and bulwark of his suffering fellow-countrymen."—Phillpots' Letter on the Coronation Oath, 1828, p. 201.***517§ Speech on Church Rates, 1827, p. 12. It is no more "foreign" to Dublin, than it is to Cornwall or to Cumberland. The whole passage is this: he is speaking of the Church-rate Bill—"In fact, this Act was stolen upon us by the means of that ignorance of what is going on in a foreign parliament, which that most mischievous measure, the Union, necessarily produced."‡ Letter to Mr. Robertson, in Letters on the Re-union of the Churches, p. 47.† Letters of J. K. L. p. 35.***516† If every state ought to establish the religious sect which is the most numerous, the establishment, so elected by the state, may vary every year, or with every parliament. The true principle appears to me to be this, viz. that the governing powers of a state, being responsible to God for the well-being of the people committed by Him to their charge, should give to that people such facilities of education and of worship as they, the governors, think to be most consistent with truth and wisdom; leaving to the people to choose, as they will, any other modes either of instruction or of religion.***515***514‡ In the collected works, vol. i. p. 100, the phrase is vague, and dilated "into every privilege compatible with the constitution." If the phrase were altered by Mr. Grattan on the ground of any growing disinclination to "the Protestant ascendancy," it is a fresh proof of the hazard of taking the opinions of any advocate of the Roman Catholic claims as a given standard at any one time: if the phrase were altered not by him, but by others, it loses all the authority due to his name. I give a definition of Protestant ascendancy by a high constitutional Irish whig in 1792. "By Protestant ascendancy" (said Mr. Sheridan, cousin of R. B. Sheridan), "he meant a Protestant king, to whom only, being Protestant, we owed allegiance; a Protestant House of Peers, composed of Protestant lords spiritual in Protestant succession, of Protestant lords temporal with Protestant inheritance; a Protestant House of Commons elected and deputed by Protestant constituents; in short, a Protestant legislative, a Protestant judicial, and a Protestant executive, in all and each of their varieties, degrees, and gradations." Irish Debates, vol. xii. p. 135, 18th Febr. 1792. Of Sheridan, then member for Charlemont, see Hardy's Life of Lord Charlemont, vol. ii. p. 316–320.† Feb. 15, 1782. Irish Debates, vol. i. p. 243.***513† Irish Debates, vol. i. p. 257–259.*********512***511§ Votes, 1827, p. 632,‡ "Gratitude soon wears out," as Wolfe Tone says, speaking of the feelings of his Roman Catholic clients in respect to the concessions of 1793, while he was pointing out to them other and higher objects, i. 187—"When Mr. Secretary Hobart pressed the Roman Catholics of that day to say that they were satisfied, those who were willing to say so argued that the minister did not say the Catholics were to acquiesce for ever under the measures intended, but only that the public mind should not be irritated; that every accession of strength enabled them the better to secure the remainder," &c.—Wolfe Tone, i. 93,† Journals, 1824, p. 446.******510† Dr. Doyle's letter to Mr. Robertson, in Letters on the Re-union of the Churches, p. 4.***509‡ Butler, p. 14. See a similar passage by the late Dr, Milner, in the Appendix p. 168.† Butler, p. 10.********508‡ He was of the House of Ormonde [see evidence before the Commons, 1825]. His work is entitled "Justification of the Tenets of the Roman Catholic Religion, and a Refutation of the Charges brought against its Clergy, by the Right Rev. Lord Bishop of Cloyne. By Dr. James Butler." 1787.† Berkley's Miscellanies, p. 108–9.***507506***505judgment,conscienceentis,504**animus impon-*503Ibid.*Ibid.****502‡ Plowden's "Ireland since the Union," vol. ii., p. 120.******501500‡ Speech of the right hon. W. Pitt, on the Union, 31st Jan. 1799, pp. 39, 40. Wright. London. 1799.† "In discussing the subject, I must often allude to a speech published as Mr. Pitt's, and as various editions of it have been circulated, I shall select that to which the government has given the sanction of it's authority, the one printed by the king's printer, under their direction, of which ten thousand copies have been circulated gratis by them, and all of which have been paid for at the public expense." Speech of the right hon. John Foster, 11th April, 1799, p. 1. London, 1799.***499† Arguments for and against an Union between Great Britain and Ireland, considered Dublin and London, Dec. 1798.***498**comme ci-devant,*497***496***495† See Art. 1st, 5th, 12th, besides their majesty's own reference to it in their words of confirmation.***494† The protest in the Irish House of Lords against this bill was signed by fourteen peers, of whom seven were bishops; and seems to have been founded in some measure upon the injury which would arise to property by expunging, at such an interval, words introduced into the treaty at its ratification. "Because we apprehend many Protestants may, and will, suffer by this bill, in their just rights and pretensions, by reason of their having purchased and lent money upon the credit of the said articles, and as we conceive in several other respects." Lords' Journals (Ireland), 23 Sept. 1697, vol. i. p. 635.***493║ Speeches, 1828, p. 55.§ See Story, ii. 257. See also Continuation of Rapin, xiii. 474.‡ Speeches, 1828, p. 54.† Burnet, ii. 81.***492491‡ The King's Answer is dated 10th of March 1692, Journals, x. p. 848.‡ Journals, 4th of March, 1692, Vol. x. p. 842–3.*********490***489488║It appears by Story, ii. 165, that major general Talmash was believed to be inclined o lay aside the treaty, i. e. not to grant even such terms to the garrison and town.§ Curry, p. 93. in Browne, p. 23.‡ Browne, p. 33.† Leland, iii. 466.***487‡ 17 and 18 Car. 2nd, c. 6. § 6. See Browne, p. 33.† Brief Review of the Question, whether the Articles of Limerick have been violated, by Arthur Browne, esq. representative in parliament for the University of Dublin.—Dublin, 8vo. 1783.***********486**in the exercise of their religion;"in that particular"*totidem literis,485pace domini regis,pari passu,*pace domini regis,pari passu,**484***483‡ Speeches of Daniel O'Connell, esq. and, Richard Shiel, esq,—Dublin, 1828. p. 48.***482***481‡ By the proclamation of the lords justices, dated Jan. 1692, this phrase is explained to mean "housekeepers with estates of freehold of one hundred pounds a year"—Story, vol. ii. p. 298.† Story, vol. ii. p. 200.****be granted or taken away? **l*480† Mr. O'Connell is reported to have said [Speeches, 12mo. Dublin, 1828. p. 53], "Yet Mr. Peel pretends to have discovered that all the immunities guaranteed by the Treaty of limerick are included in a power merely to pray. What impudent nonsense! How could that***479***478of Limerick, "dispatched an express to St. Germain's, to beg either a speedy succour, or leave to make conditions for themselves."—[King James's Memoirs, ii. 459]. He goes on, "but the enemie pressed too hard to give any great hopes they (the Irish) could wait the relief which was to come from a country so remote: they made my lord Tyrconnel aprehend the army would capitulate in spite of his teeth; and many persons of distinction were so much inclined that way, as had like to have brought it about even before the enemie apeared in sight of the town."—ii. 460. Again, in p, 462. The Irish officers were so impatient to make terms with the English army before Limerick, (1691), that Tyrconnel had great difficulty in managing them: "but he pressed them only to have patience twenty days, there being no likelyhood of their being forced so soon, and that in so much time an answer might be had from the king:"—but, whilst he was thus struggling, he was seized with apoplexy, on St. Lawrence's day, and died two or three days after, 14th August, 1691.—See Story's Wars in Ireland, ii. p. 187.477† The last words of Tyrconnel were, "not to let things go to extremities, but to accept of such terms as could be got;" "and his words," says Burnet, "seemed to weigh more after his death than in his life-time, for the Irish began generally to say, that they must take care of themselves, and not be made sacrifices to serve the ends of the French." [Burnet, ii. p. 80.] This is further evident from king James's own Memoirs. On the surrender of Galway in the preceding month, 20th July, 1691, Tyrconnel, after making all preparations for the defence***i. e.476***475***474swhich the duke of Norfolk, the premier duke and earl of England, is withheld from his seat in parliament, with the privation by which a freeholder of 39s473***castellss472**ad verecundiamMr. Speaker
567566565564prœmunire563562561560559558557556555554553in bella internecineHœc sapientia quondam.552auto da fe551550549 said, it was once more his pleasing duty to support this question, which had been advocated by all the wise, all the great, and all the good men, who had adorned that House and done honour to their country, since the termination of the last century. It had been well remarked by an hon. gentleman who was himself opposed to the measure, that such a combination of intellectual superiority had never before been united for the attainment of any single object. Now, he did not think so highly of his own judgment as not to feel great relief when he found it strengthened and corroborated by the judgments and opinions of such an illustrious body of men. He did not think so ill of the moral and intellectual character of England and of Ireland, as to believe it possible that this whole class of persons, comprising her first statesmen and most celebrated men, had acted contrary to their substantial interests for the period of eight-and-twenty years. If he could really believe that such a conspiracy had been formed, and by such men, what idea should he then entertain of the character of the English intellect? What was this question, upon which, during this long period, all these great men had uniformly agreed? It was not a matter of speculation, but of civil policy and national redress. The whole first class of statesmen in this kingdom, who differed, perhaps, upon all other questions, combined upon this. This was not an appeal to authority against reason. The concurrence of the judgments of so many great men respecting this question, was a proof in itself that it was founded upon reason, and based upon the immutable principles of justice. Otherwise they must suppose that the splendid array of the greatest characters that adorned this country in modern days had combined to maintain a delusion upon this question; and the absurdity of such a supposition was too evident to require any comment.
567566565564prœmunire563562561560559558557556555554553in bella internecineHœc sapientia quondam.552auto da fe551550549Sir James Mackintosh
* rose, and addressed the House as follows*Sir R. H. Inglis
529528** said, he could assure the House that he would only trespass on its attention for a few moments. Indeed, he should be guilty of great presumption were he, after all the indulgence which he had received at its hands, to venture upon occupying their time on so important a question at all unnecessarily. He would refrain from entering into the numerous questions which hon. gentlemen had raised upon the construction of the Treaty of Limerick; for he was content to leave it on the argumentative explanation of his hon. friend, the member for Westminster, on the one side, and on the bare and naked statement of the hon. baronet who had just sat down, on the other. He made this declaration with one exception only; and that was, that he was happy to find that the hon. baronet who spoke last was not inclined to follow the precedent of bishop Doppin, who, shortly after the signature of the Treaty of Limerick, had preached a sermon against the faithful observance of it, and had publicly defended the doctrine, that no doctrine should be kept with recreants. The hon. baronet had disclaimed that maxim, and had marked his reprobation of that abominable sermon in the most pointed terms. He would not refer to times so distant as those in which the Treaty of Limerick was passed; but would come at once to the period of
529528**Sir John Newport
"—Paribus se legibus ambæ
Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant."606— "quacunque viam virtute petivit,
Successum dea dira negat."605experto credite quantus.604603602601600599598 rose and said:— Sir, before I proceed to offer to the House the remarks which I feel called upon to make upon this question, I beg to express my regret at having offered myself to the House at so late an hour of the discussion on Friday last. I hope I am not guilty of obtruding myself improperly upon the House; and I beg to assure those who hear me, that nothing but an anxiety not to give a silent vote upon the question could have induced me to act as I did upon the occasion. I now hope for the indulgence of the House, while I express the opinions which I have entertained ever since I first came into parliament, and which, upon the coolest consideration which it has been in my power to give the subject, I still entertain upon this great question. I have narrowly watched the working of the present system of exclusion, both in this country and in Ireland; and I make allusion to this fact, in order that hon. members may know the very peculiar situation in which I am placed, and the grounds upon which I have held my present opinions, unchanged. The question now before us has been regularly brought under the consideration of the House during a long period, and upon every succeeding occasion it has become more and more connected with the state of Ireland. At this moment, we cannot enter upon the discussion without looking directly at the internal state of that country; and the more we do so, the more necessary it becomes for us to enter into an inquiry, with a view to our coming to some satisfactory results."—Paribus se legibus ambæ
Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant."606— "quacunque viam virtute petivit,
Successum dea dira negat."605experto credite quantus.604603602601600599598Mr. Charles Grant
609608607 said, he was anxious to be indulged for a few moments, while he stated, for the first time, the opinions he entertained on this subject. When he first heard of the motion he was disposed to give it his decided negative. He supposed that little new, either in fact or argument, could be adduced in its support. He had been of opinion, that the question was not intimately connected with the existing situation of Ireland, and that the distresses of that country arose from other
609608607Colonel Davies
 said, that the gallant admiral, though he had talked of the massacre on the bridge of Wexford, and had referred to the feelings of the inhabitants of that town on the subject of Catholic emancipation, was not, he believed, very conversant with the sentiments of those whom he had mentioned. The gallant admiral was not sent to parliament by a large population, but by the mayor and a few burgesses of Wexford. Now, he was perfectly prepared to deny that the gallant admiral had uttered the real sentiments of the town of Wexford.Colonel Chichester
641damus, petimitsque vicissim." 640 said, that the objection made to the observations of the gallant admiral, on account of the paucity of his constituents, had no relevancy whatever to the question, It would be very
641damus, petimitsque vicissim." 640The Attorney-general
 intimated, that he was reading an important document.Mr. Brougham
654" Oremus pacem, et dextras tendamus inermes."653652badinage651de hœretico comburendo.fulcrum,Index Expurgatorius,Index Expurgatorius,650649fulcra,ipso facto,648647646645veto,644substratum643 said, that if his learned friend had an important document, he also (producing a book) had another. When it was contended that, by the terms of the treaty, every Roman Catholic in Ireland had a right to sit in parliament, and to serve in office, it was exceedingly strange that Sir Toby Butler, that great lawyer, should leave those important points unnoticed. No stipulation was made with respect to the right of sitting in parliament and of serving in office, but it was stipulated, that every nobleman and gentleman in Ireland might ride, carry a sword, and display a pair of pistols. He might ride on a bay colt or a white colt (Sir Toby Butler did not set forth the colour of the charger or palfrey), but the right was secured to every man in Ireland to ride a horse, to carry a sword, and to have pistols in his holsters. The hon. baronet had said, he should like to see this point argued in a court of law—but if it were brought before lord Tenterden or Mr. Justice Bailey, either of those learned persons would say, "It is too much to say that, under this treaty, such rights can be claimed, when the question of eligibility is wholly left out of it—when the most important part of the subject is not even hinted at. The Roman Catholic may ride about on a palfrey, and carry a sword and pistols—that is provided for; but there is no provision in this treaty which gives him a right to sit in parliament and to serve in office." He was very sure that, if the subject were entertained judicially, the court would hear only one side of the question, and would not ask the counsel on the opposite side to answer it. He concurred entirely with his right hon. friend, the Secretary of State for the Home Department; namely, that if it could be shown that the right claimed by the Roman Catholics was borne out by the Treaty of Limerick, the argument was at an end. There would then be no use in abstract reasoning, with respect to the expediency or inexpediency of conceding those claims. It would be unnecessary to show that expediency, because the compact would give the right. And he thought his right hon. friend acted wisely, when, he saw that the Treaty of Limerick did not give any such right, to apply himself particularly to that point. It was a
654" Oremus pacem, et dextras tendamus inermes."653652badinage651de hœretico comburendo.fulcrum,Index Expurgatorius,Index Expurgatorius,650649fulcra,ipso facto,648647646645veto,644substratum643The Attorney-general
658657656655 said, that although he certainly was not one of the young and highly-gifted members, of whom the learned Attorney-general had spoken so tauntingly, he would beg leave to trespass shortly on the attention of the House. The last observation which had fallen from the learned gentleman appeared not a little extraordinary. The learned gentleman had used an expression which conveyed rather the watch-word of a party than the meaning of any thing which had been addressed to the House in the course of the present debate; namely, the word "intimidation." In his conscience he believed, that no hon. gentleman who had spoken had had the least idea of saying any thing which could be justly called intimidation. On so momentous an occasion, it was the duty of every gentleman to put forward all that he thought calculated to throw a light on the subject; and to state, honestly and fairly, the black part of the prospect as well as the white. It was scarcely fair, on the part of the learned gentleman himself, to "intimidate" hon. members from explicitly declaring their sentiments by the use of such a phrase. The learned Attorney-general had advanced some singular positions with regard to the Treaty of Limerick. Having observed that the hon. baronet who introduced the motion had dwelt emphatically upon the violation of that treaty as one of his arguments, he had added that an hon. and learned friend of his had tossed both that and the argument grounded on the Union overboard as worthless. The fact was, that the arguments derived from the vio-
658657656655Mr. Wallace
670669668667666665664663662661660659 said:—At this late hour of the night, Sir, I must crave some little indulgence, for offering myself to the House. I confess that, on a preceding evening, I was not sorry at the adjournment of the discussion; and if I was not sorry then, I am much less so now that the postponement of the question has had the effect of preventing the able and eloquent speech of my right hon. friend
670669668667666665664663662661660659Mr. Secretary Huskisson
675674felo de se,673672671 assured the House, that it was with unfeigned satisfaction he expressed his intention of detaining them only a few minutes on this very important subject [cheers]; and he took leave to say, that the House could not receive this declaration with greater satisfaction than he, on his part, made it. He should not have thought it becoming in him to intrude at that period of the debate, after the speeches which had been delivered,—
675674felo de se,673672671Mr. Brougham
624623622621 said, it might appear
624623622621Lord Ennismore
 begged pardon for obtruding himself on the House at that late hour, but he rose at that moment, conscious that another opportunity would not be afforded to him before the close of the discussion. As the representative of a large county in Ireland, not pledged to any party, not sent there, as had been said by an hon. member, by the Catholic Association, but as the representative of a most numerous body of respectable Roman Catholics, he felt it his duty to state his opinion on this question. What an hon. member had said of the Catholics was not correct. They were not hostile to the Church: if so, why had they paid tithes so cheerfully, and why had they agreed to the commutation? The manner in which they acted concerning tithes was a proof of their cheerful obedience. The Catholics were deserving of great praise. That they were increasing in numbers was a fact not to be denied; and if out of seven millions of people, there were two millions of men in rags, who cared nothing for life the House could not expect that they would not show what their feelings were when an opportunity offered. The learned Attorney-general had not thrown overboard the Treaty of Limerick, though he had done so with the Union. Now, he would appeal to every Irish member, whether the Union could have been carried, if Catholic emancipation had not been promised to be conceded? If the Catholics had been hostile to the Union, it never could have been carried; but, in fact, they had been cajoled into an acquiescence in that measure.Mr. Butler Clarke
631premunire,630629628627626625 said, he could not accede to the proposition he had heard so often advanced in the course of that debate; namely, that emancipation, as it was called, would carry with it whatever securities would be desired. He had listened to the speeches of his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade, that evening, and of his right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, on Friday evening, with some pleasure, but mingled, in no inconsiderable degree, with pain and disapprobation. They had told the House very decidedly, nay, imperatively, what must be done, and he had expected they would tell the House also how it was to be done. His right hon. friend, the Secretary for Ireland, had particularly failed in that respect; and when he considered that his right hon. friend held a station in which it was his duty, mainly to direct his talents to the consideration of the interests of that part of the empire which was most likely to be affected by this question; and when he considered that his right hon. friend had told the House, and the same assertion had been confidently repeated that evening by his other right hon. friend, that this measure, and this measure only, was the remedy for all the evils of Ireland, he thought the House had some right to expect, as this measure must have been under his right hon. friend's consideration so earnestly and so long, that he would have been able not only to tell the House that they must do it, but also how it was to be done. It might be very well for
631premunire,630629628627626625Mr. George Bankes
 said, that the position of the hon. member was not tenable; because the town of Wexford contained ten thousand inhabitants, and the freemen amounted to upwards of two hundred and seventy [a laugh.]Admiral Evans
639638 expressed his determination to oppose any further concession to the Roman Catholics of Ireland. When he recollected the conduct of that body in 1798, he was not inclined to trust them with power. In that year, one hundred and twenty-five persons were massacred
639638Admiral Evans
620ferœ natureâ,619—" I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
Action nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
To stir men's blood."l.l.618l.l.venerativenerabiles617616615"nomen inter hœreticos non nominundum"" Quæ regio in terris nostri non pinna laboris."concordat614humiliabo,"impugnabo,""persequar"" Hœreticos, proposse persequar et humiliabo.""Hœreticos proposse persequar et impugnabo,"613612611610 deprecated the reasoning of the hon. member for Worcester, in denying the existence of unalienable rights on the part of the people. Would the hon. gentleman deny that we had a right to liberty? If so, he might with equal justice go one step further, and deny that we had a right to our existence. It was not from the articles of treaties, but from the principles of the constitution that we derived those unalienable rights, which the hon. gentleman had ventured to question and deny. The question of emancipation
620ferœ natureâ,619—" I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
Action nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
To stir men's blood."l.l.618l.l.venerativenerabiles617616615"nomen inter hœreticos non nominundum"" Quæ regio in terris nostri non pinna laboris."concordat614humiliabo,"impugnabo,""persequar"" Hœreticos, proposse persequar et humiliabo.""Hœreticos proposse persequar et impugnabo,"613612611610Mr. Henry Grattan
633632 said, he could not conceive by what process of reasoning the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department had arrived at the conclusion, that nothing ought to be done in regard to this question. What better witnesses, or what greater authority, could the right hon. gentleman require than the Solicitor-general for Ireland, and the Secretary for that country? As to the speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel), it seemed to be a mere recapitulation of the opinions of those who had preceded him: the only arguments which it contained were drawn, as it appeared to him, from those brought forward in the course of the debate, and in this manner, the arguments which the right hon. gentleman had made against the motion, were weaker than those which he had made for it. The hon. gentleman who last addressed the House had asked, how the conciliation of the Catholics could be carried into effect? His answer to that question was,—by the House appointing the committee moved for by the hon. baronet. Great apprehensions were entertained by the hon. gentleman, of the admission of Catholic members, as if they would unite and thwart the measures of government. Had any inconvenience been produced by the introduction of the Scotch and Irish members into that House? "But," said the hon. member, "do we not see many instances of union and confederation amongst them?" That might be a good argument for expelling the Irish members from the House altogether; but it was no argument for the maintenance of that system of exclusion which it was the object of this motion to put down. The hon. member had pointed their attention to the example of Mexico. He, on the contrary, would call the attention of the House to a country belonging to the same continent, but to a different division of it. While they saw in Canada, great divisions and differences, while they beheld the disputes there carried to a high pitch and serious consequences resulting from them, there was one ingredient absent from this civil turmoil. There were no differences upon the subject of religion. In Canada there existed a mixed population of Catholics and Protestants, but they all enjoyed equal rights and liberties. It could not be denied
633632Mr. J. E. Denison
637636s.635634 said, he had been anxious to follow the hon. member for Corfe Castle; for, differing, as he did, so widely from him in his conclusions, he had heard nothing which had given him so much pleasure as that hon. member's speech. Indeed, he hailed that speech as a happy omen of the success of the present motion. The hon. member had endeavoured to obtain a triumph over parallels and comparisons; while he quarrelled not with the arguments of the supporters of the question, he thought it not beneath him to deal with metaphors and similes, while he shrunk from grappling with the arguments upon which the measure was founded. Did that hon. member, when he asked the House what was the mode in which they would consent to Catholic Emancipation, conceive that that of itself was the question before the House? Or did he suppose that the quere might not be retorted upon him, and that he might not be asked, whether the real and practical question before the House was,—not whether they were prepared to emancipate the Roman Catholics, but whether they were determined to effect the tranquillization of Ireland? If the hon. member should object to Catholic Emancipation as the mode of tranquillizing Ireland, could he point out any other mode by which that country could be tranquillized? What was his scheme?—in what consisted his plan? That this House should go on considering this question year after year?— that they should debate it, night after night, and session after session, and never come to a decision?—that they should produce a balanced government and a balanced legislature, rendering every man who otherwise might be neutral or passive interested on one side or other, and each discussion of the question furnishing new topics for irritation and division? This was the hon. member's plan for tranquillizing Ireland! The House should pause long before they adopted such a course. They could not keep back the question. He was glad that they had at length put aside the Treaty of Limerick, and the engagements said to have been made at the Union, or whatever other matters might have been recorded in history, and that the question was put
637636s.635634Mr. North
695 said, he felt himself very unexpectedly called upon to make a few observations to the committee. He was one of those members who last year had endeavoured to express to the government, of which Mr. Canning was the head, the confidence which they were inclined to repose in its disposition to husband the resources of the country, and to secure the welfare of the state. Though it was with considerable diffidence that he ventured to differ on any subject from his
695Lord Clifton
 said, he was convinced that a bill of this nature could never pass through a single stage in that House. Until that part of the law which made the forfeiture of property consequent on a conviction for felony was altered, he was quite sure that the House would never trust such a matter to magistrates. This deprivation of property seemed to be entirely forgotten by the hon. member. Cases of misdemeanor, such, for instance, as assaults, might be advantageously disposed of in the manner now suggested, but in felonies nothing of the kind could be done, while the law remained as it was.Mr. Fergusson
l.698 said, he had no intention to have taken any part in a debate which must naturally be so interesting to his feelings; but, after the sentiments to which the hon. member for Aberdeen had given utterance, and the expressions in which he had clothed those sentiments, he felt himself compelled to address the committee, lest he, as one of the connexions of the late Mr. Canning, should be supposed to concur in their justice. With respect to the objections which the hon. member had raised to this grant, either on account of the alleged demerits of his illustrious relative, or on the narrow grounds of that false economy to which the hon. member was so partial, he would only make one observation, and that was, that he was quite sure the hon. member would not carry the committee along with him. The hon. member had found fault with the friends of Mr. Canning for the grounds on which this demand had been brought before parliament. He would tell the hon. member for Aberdeen, that if there were no other grounds for the remuneration now proposed, his right hon. relative had laid sufficient grounds for it in having always been the foremost in opposing the hon. member's theoretical reforms, and his petty, paltry projects of
l.698Lord George Bentinck
l.l.702l.701700l.l.l.699 said, that in the line of argument which he was going to pursue, it was his intention to speak of the late Mr.
l.l.702l.701700l.l.l.699Mr. Bankes
l.l.711710709708707"Would to God I were now on beard the Jupiter!"—the name of the ship des-stined for his voyage to India. So much, therefore, for his lamented friend's gratifying option: so much for the pleasures and profits of office, which he was supposed to have enjoyed with so much satisfaction ! He entirely concurred with his hon. friend, as to the necessity of enforcing a principle of economy; but, if he was not mistaken, his hon. friend had more than once acknowledged that the great offices of the state were not in this country sufficiently paid. He (Mr. H.) had, indeed, always thought it would be a most unwise policy even with regard to economy, to raise the stipends of the high officers of state. His reason had been, that, circumstanced as this country was in having an aristocracy possessing great wealth, a number of commoners likewise with large fortunes, among whom great talents were so often found suited to the service of the country to whom the salary of office would be no object; such a feeling ought on principle to be cultivated, while at the same time the Crown should not be deprived of the means of calling into its service those talents which might be found placed in less fortunate circumstances in the community. He should be sorry to see the Crown restricted in the privilege of benefiting by the talents of any of these classes, whether by being excluded from the choice of servants among the less wealthy ranks, or tied down to the aristocracy, to the exclusion of whatever advantages might be available in other quarters. His conclusion therefore was, that it was a wise principle to keep the salaries of high and efficient offices at a comparatively low rate; and, whenever great services had been received, and want of adequate means the result to the individual or his family, to come down to parliament, once perhaps, in a quarter of a century, to make an appeal for the payment of the debts of some statesman like Mr. Pitt, or some provision for the family of such a person as Mr. Canning. This was an infinitely more economical course, than raising the salaries of officers of state, which would entail a permanent expense to the nation. Instances would often occur when, as in the case of the present Secretary for Foreign Affairs, the earl of Dudley, or in that of the late Secretary for the Home Department, the marquis of Lansdowne, salary would be nothing for
l.l.711710709708707706705l.l.704703 said, that, having been alluded to by the hon. member for Montrose as one of the nearest and dearest friends of the late Mr. Canning, and having been connected with him by the ties of personal attachment throughout rather a long political life, he felt perfectly sensible, before he came down to the
l.l.711710709708707"Would to God I were now on beard the Jupiter!"—the name of the ship des-stined for his voyage to India. So much, therefore, for his lamented friend's gratifying option: so much for the pleasures and profits of office, which he was supposed to have enjoyed with so much satisfaction ! He entirely concurred with his hon. friend, as to the necessity of enforcing a principle of economy; but, if he was not mistaken, his hon. friend had more than once acknowledged that the great offices of the state were not in this country sufficiently paid. He (Mr. H.) had, indeed, always thought it would be a most unwise policy even with regard to economy, to raise the stipends of the high officers of state. His reason had been, that, circumstanced as this country was in having an aristocracy possessing great wealth, a number of commoners likewise with large fortunes, among whom great talents were so often found suited to the service of the country to whom the salary of office would be no object; such a feeling ought on principle to be cultivated, while at the same time the Crown should not be deprived of the means of calling into its service those talents which might be found placed in less fortunate circumstances in the community. He should be sorry to see the Crown restricted in the privilege of benefiting by the talents of any of these classes, whether by being excluded from the choice of servants among the less wealthy ranks, or tied down to the aristocracy, to the exclusion of whatever advantages might be available in other quarters. His conclusion therefore was, that it was a wise principle to keep the salaries of high and efficient offices at a comparatively low rate; and, whenever great services had been received, and want of adequate means the result to the individual or his family, to come down to parliament, once perhaps, in a quarter of a century, to make an appeal for the payment of the debts of some statesman like Mr. Pitt, or some provision for the family of such a person as Mr. Canning. This was an infinitely more economical course, than raising the salaries of officers of state, which would entail a permanent expense to the nation. Instances would often occur when, as in the case of the present Secretary for Foreign Affairs, the earl of Dudley, or in that of the late Secretary for the Home Department, the marquis of Lansdowne, salary would be nothing for
l.l.711710709708707706705l.l.704703Mr. Secretary Huskisson
712 said, that there were some points on which he should have addressed the House, had not the right hon. gentleman who had preceded him answered the hon. member for Dorsetshire on everything that had been so invidiously urged by him against the late Mr. Canning. But, though those points had been much more efficiently answered by the right hon. gentleman than he could have hoped to have done, he could nevertheless not consent to give a silent vote on this subject, as there were some matters in the course of the debate which had struck him as proper to allude to, at the same time he must dissent from an expression which had been used by a noble lord opposite, in reference to the hon. member for Aberdeen, and those who sat with him on that side of the House. The expression was one which had, no doubt, escaped from the noble lord (G. Bentinck) in the heat of debate, and which he would not have employed upon calmer reflection. He certainly was of opinion that in the present instance the hon. member for Aberdeen had acted upon a mistaken economy as to trifles, which would only lead to greater expenditure in more considerable matters: but he was sure that credit would be given to that hon. member, for his incessant exertions to curb the public expenditure. It was for this reason that he was sorry that his noble friend, in speaking of Mr. Canning, had made use of the expression that he had caused the member for Aberdeen and those who went along with him to shrink into their native and miserable insignificance. It was with the turn of the expression, and not with the substance, that he quarrelled; for certainly Mr. Canning had caused those minorities to shrink into insignificance; but how had he effected that? By the adoption of those liberal measures which that minority had for
712Mr. Stanley
 said, that he should certainly vote in support of the motion; and he thought that the House, when it took into consideration the zeal and the talent which the late Mr. Canning had uniformly displayed in the cause of his country, and the line of policy upon which he had acted, would follow the course which he intended to pursue.Mr. Stuart Wortley
715714l.713 said, he felt it his duty to offer a few observations to the House, in consequence of what had fallen from a noble lord (Althorp). The noble lord seemed to labour under the impression, that this vote had been proposed in consequence of some compromise between the members of the present administration. He could assure the noble lord that that impression was entirely erroneous. For himself he would say, that if he never had happened to have had any official connexion with the late Mr. Canning,—if he had been but a private member of that House,—he would have given his cordial vote for this proposition. The proposition appeared to him to be founded upon the broad grounds of its being perfectly consistent with policy, and reconcilable with the practice which had been adopted in reference to former ministers under similar circumstances. It was a proposition affording a reward for talent which had been devoted to the service of the country. He could not concur in the gloomy view which had been taken of the finances of the country. He did not believe that this country was so degraded as not to be
715714l.713Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that the resolution was the same as had been passed on the preceding night, after three days' debate, and he did not mean to say that the subject had not been fully discussed. He rose merely for the purpose of tendering his formal dissent from the measure; and, with reference to the course to be pursued, he trusted the hon. baronet would, at least, give the House some time to consider this very important part of the question.Mr. Secretary Peel
681 said, he was not aware
681Sir F. Burdett
685684l.683682 said, he rose to discharge a public duty under the influence of feelings which were in some degree of a painful, and in some degree of a grateful, nature, — painful, inasmuch as the task he had undertaken to perform brought to his recollection the loss which the House had sustained by the death of one of its members most distinguished for his abilities and virtues,— painful, also, as regarded the interests of a family, who had a right to look to that right hon. gentleman, not only for honours and distinctions, but also for the means of future support;— grateful, however, inasmuch as it gave him an opportunity of recording the opinion which he entertained of the talent and ability of that right hon. gentleman, and as it made him the instrument of rendering to his family what he considered an act of justice on the part of that House. His object in rising was, to propose an alteration of the Offices Pensions act, with the view of affording a provision to the family of Mr. Canning. He did not recommend the measure to the House on the ground of precedent, nor did he mean to propose the resolution in order that it might become a precedent. He did not mean to say that in every case the fact of an individual having held an exalted situation, either in public office or in that House, should be a sufficient ground for the interference of
685684l.683682The Chancellor of the Exchecquer
 regretted that a sense of public duty would prevent him from agreeing to the motion. He did not think that the public services of Mr. Canning called for such an expression of the national gratitude.Mr. Western
 thought the forfeiture of property consequent upon felonies should be removed, before the magisterial jurisdiction, proposed by the bill, was adopted. There were many cases of juvenile offenders, in which a summary power of conviction by the magistrates would be infinitely better than subjecting them to the contamination of a prison before trial. He felt how jealous the legislature ought to be in giving the magistrates this summary jurisdiction; but he did not believe that any evil could result from the measure now proposed. In truth, there were many little offences which it would be much better wholly to overlook, than to bring them before any tribunal.Mr. Western
718 hoped the House would give his hon. friend leave to bring in this bill, because it was probable that some measure
718Mr. Sykes
717 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to afford to criminals accused of Petty Felonies the option of Summary Conviction by two or more magistrates. In the first place, he begged gentlemen not to suppose that the object of his motion was to increase the power of magistrates. He thought that, in many cases, magistrates had too much power, and he should be happy to see it contracted. It did not however follow, that because they had too much power in some cases, they had not too little in others. He believed that their power of inflicting severe punishments was too great, and that their power in tempering justice with mercy was too small. He begged hon. gentlemen to observe the inconsistency of giving two justices at quarter sessions the power of transportation, while it deprived the same two justices at petty sessions of inflicting the most trifling punishment. All they could do was to commit the offender to prison, where he must remain for months, probably, until the period of his trial approached; and this, too, perhaps, for an offence which, some years ago, would have been much
717Mr. E. Davenport
l.l.,l.,l.697l.696 said, he was anxious to offer a few words to the committee on this motion, because he was afraid it was likely to be led away by the eloquent appeal which had been made to its passions, by the noble lord who had addressed them in support of this grant, and also by the right hon. relative of the departed statesman. He considered the present motion to be of great importance in a public point of view. If it were carried, they could never refuse to make a similar grant to the family of any gentleman in office which thought proper to apply for it. What had Mr. Canning done for the public, which entitled his family to so munificent a reward for his services? Had he, like the duke of Wellington, done any thing for his country which ought to make the House of Commons anxious to signalize his career, and to mark his decease? He was not aware of any such occurrence. If, then, their vote on this occasion could not rest upon such a basis, would hon. gentlemen consent that it should rest on the whole of Mr. Canning's conduct during the thirty-two years of his political career? He was sure they would not: for Mr. Canning had been the regular and unwearied advocate of all the measures which, during that time, they had denounced, as unconstitutional. Until Mr. Canning became premier, none of the gentlemen by whom he was surrounded, had been in the habit of approving the measures which obtained his uniform support; and he was certain that if this measure had been proposed five years ago, it would have been vehemently attacked by many of the gentlemen who were most strenuous in defending its propriety. He should like to know what Mr. Canning had done for his country during the last five years, which entitled him to such a tribute of their esteem and gratitude. If he did his duty as a minister, did he do any more? Was the mere performance of his duty sufficient to justify the chancellor of the Exchequer in calling upon the House to make a provision for Mr. Canning's family on the score that, when his majesty had appointed him to a lucrative situation in India, in which he might have amassed a fortune, he chose to stay at
l.l.,l.,l.697l.696Mr. Hume
716 said, that even if he had differed with the late Mr. Canning, on the question of policy, he would still vote for this motion, upon the same principle that
716Mr. Wynn
 said, it seemed to him, that some hon. members were desirous that the country should imitate the example of those states of antiquity who were remarkable for the ingratitude with which they had treated those illustrious men, through whose talents alone their existence had now descended to posterity. It was a satisfaction, however, to perceive that the younger members of the House were net tainted with this blameable apathy. He heartily concurred in the motion.Sir George Murray
 said, he felt deeply impressed with the importance of the subject, and he should feel it a great dereliction of duty if he were not to use every means in his power to oppose the progress of the measure. He believed that so far from what was called Catholic Emancipation being a subject of such deep interest with the Irish, if he were to travel through Ireland with emancipation in one hand, and a sovereign in the other, he should scarcely find a man that would not take the money in preference to the boasted panacea.Sir John Brydges
l.694l,l.l.l. said, that nothing could be more painful to him than to oppose a motion, in which considerations of a personal nature were inevitably involved; but, painful as it might be, he would shortly state the reasons which led him to concur with the view of this motion, which had been taken by his noble friend, the member for Northamptonshire. The right hon. gentleman who followed his noble friend was mistaken in supposing that his noble friend's objection to the motion rested on the amount of the grant proposed. It rested on no such foundation. The amount of the grant was, he admitted, only 3,000l.694l,l.l.l.Sir M. W. Ridley
693 said, he would state, in a few words, the reasons which induced him not to give a silent vote upon the present motion. No one was more deeply impressed than he was with the duty which he owed to his constituents and to the country at large, to watch over the public expenditure; but, whilst he held that frugality was a duty, and economy a growing necessity, he likewise held that there was a generosity becoming the character of a great nation, and a remunerative liberality which was calculated to promote the best interests of the country. He was not one of those persons who thought that these remunerative rewards and distinctions should be applied only to those great men who were employed in the military and naval service of the country: but that they should be extended to those who, by their laudable exertions in the civil departments of the state, had promoted the public welfare. Did the late Mr. Canning stand in such a situation with regard to the public, or did he not? Had he established his claims to the remunerative rewards and distinctions of the state, or had he not? He agreed that there might be found in his conduct public transactions which might not secure for him the general suffrage of that House. He might lament over inequalities, which were inse-
693Sir R. Wilson
687l. said, that, however delicately he felt himself placed with respect to the discussion of the merits of a distinguished statesman, he could not, without a dereliction of duty, abstain from addressing a few words to the House. The noble lord had confessed, that if this grant had stood, not on the grounds of liberality and generosity, but on justice, he would even then have opposed it. The force of this objection went to the extent, that let the merit of the party be what it might, he would not sanction the application, because, forsooth, the country was in so impoverished a state, that the paltry debt of gratitude to that merit, amounting to no more than 3,000687l.Mr. Stratford Canning
686l. confessed he felt surprise that, previously to bringing on such a motion, no allusion had been made to the financial state of the country. Without any such reference, they had been called on to make an advance of the public money to the family of a late high officer of state. Not that he thought the sum of 3,000686l.Lord Althorp
688 said, that the difficulty he felt in delivering his sentiments on the subject was greatly increased by the course which had been pursued by his noble friend. He entirely agreed with his noble friend as to the financial difficulties in which the country was involved, though he could not go with him the length of supposing that those difficulties were of such a nature as to prevent the House from considering, even for a moment, the propriety of coming to such a vote as was now under their consideration. If he could bring his mind to that state, he would be saved all the trouble of further deliberation. But, great as he admitted the difficulties of the country to be, they were not so insurmountable as to put an absolute veto on the proposition of the chancellor of the Exchequer, supposing there existed fit grounds for making that proposition to the House. It was not his intention to enter into the history of the political life of Mr. Canning. He could not have sat so many years in the House of Commons, without having, upon many and upon most occasions, differed from him in opinion. It would, therefore, be easy for him to select grounds of opposition, which would justify him, were he to confine himself to particular acts, in voting against the motion; but, as there appeared, in the course of every man's life, a mixed character, he could not feel himself authorized, in judging of another, to decide upon his merits, without taking the whole of his conduct into consideration. Could the stoutest partisan of any political leader, get up and say of the political conduct of him whom he supported, that it was free from all reproach?
688Lord Milton
692691690689 said, that, as he was the person who had, at an early part of the session, given notice of his intention to bring forward a motion on this subject, he felt no doubt that the committee would exercise some degree of forbearance towards him, while he addressed a few observations to their notice. Indeed the speech of the right hon. gentleman, and still more the speech of his noble friend, made it impossible for him to refrain from uttering his sentiments upon the subject. On a former
692691690689Lord Morpeth
 did not consider the proposition in the light of a reward for services rendered, nor as an act of generosity; but as a measure of strict justice. He regretted that the debate should have taken so decidedly a party turn. With the life of the eminent individual, all party differences ought to have ceased; and, as to the plea of economy, the setting it up upon the occasion, was calculated to disgust the House with the very name.Lord Palmerston
 regretted that any personal warmth should have found its way into the debate, and conceived the observations made by the hon. gentleman who preceded him not calculated to produce the unanimity they desired. Had he to give a vote as a private member of parliament, he could equally as at present, have supported the proposition; feeling that such a grant was deserved by the length and eminence of the public services of Mr. Canning. He, however, thought that expressions had fallen from his noble friend (lord Palmerston) stronger than, on reflection, he could have wished to apply to the noble marquis.Mr. Dawson
 concurred in the vote, and explained his connexion with Mr. Canning's government. In continuing in office, he had made very considerable sacrifices, of a personal nature, to his public duty.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 coincided in opinion with the hon. gentleman. He thought that a committee might find much to amend and new model in the existing system.Mr. Western
 said, he considered it quite impossible to establish a uniform system of gaol discipline throughout the country. Indeed, his opinion was, that there already existed too much minute investigation on the subject, and therefore he would oppose the motion.Mr. Peel
 said, that not having been present on a former occasion, when the grant to the family of Mr. Canning was proposed, he availed himself of that opportunity of stating his decided objection to the measure. He begged that his objection might not be considered to rest upon economical principles, but as being intended to mark his disapprobation of the principles of Mr. Canning, principles which he considered to have been productive of the greatest calamities to this country.The Marquis of Chandos
 expressed his feelings with respect to the zeal, talent, and industry, with which Mr. Canning had applied himself to the discharge of his official duties; and to which his health had been sacrificed, and to which he had ultimately fallen a victim.Mr. Planta
 felt it his duty to say, that however much he had differed with Mr. Canning in his latter days, in consequence of his attempt to carry on the government by the most unnatural alliance ever contracted in politics, still he could not but recollect Mr. Canning's eminent services, his unrivalled genius, and his public spirit. On these grounds he gave his unqualified assent to the motion.Sir T. Lethbridge
723 wished to seize the last opportunity that was likely to arise, to express his entire assent to the proposed grant. He considered the present likely to be the only opportunity that would present itself; for he could scarcely imagine that an opposition, so singular in its character, could be continued; and he anticipated, that the measure in its further progress would meet the unanimous approval of the House, as it undoubtedly would that of the country. The opposi-
723Mr. Spring Rice
722721720 said, he was not sorry that the noble marquis, by reviving this subject, had given him an opportunity of expressing his regret, that he had not been present last night when this measure was proposed. He had not been aware of the proposition or he should have made it his duty to attend, for the purpose of expressing his warm approbation of it. He could not agree with the noble lord, that a difference of judgment upon certain political measures of itself afforded a sufficient ground for withholding that approbation, he was not disposed to think that a minister, whose personal honour and integrity were above suspicion, was less sincere and zealous in devoting his life to the Service of his country, because he might
722721720Sir James Scarlett
 expressed his deep regret, after what had occurred on a former night, that any member should have expressed his opposition to the grant.Sir T. Acland
 —I rise to mention one circumstance which I omitted to state when I addressed the House yesterday evening; it is, however, a debt of justice due to individuals not to pass it over in silence. A rumour has gone abroad, that the peerage conferred upon the widow of Mr. Canning, was not so conferred until after it had been solicited by her. If such an impression does exist, from whatever quarter it may have been derived, I can say, that a more unfounded and flagrant calumny never proceeded from the lips of man. I am glad to take this public opportunity of stating, that this mark of favour was bestowed at a time, and in a manner, which reflected equal credit upon the Sovereign who so feelingly conferred it, and the statesman whose memory he thus honoured.Lord Morpeth.
 regretted that an occasion should have arisen that called on him for the expressions he had employed, but that occasion having arisen, he did not regret what had fallen from him.Lord Palmerston
 felt himself called upon, as a member of Mr. Canning's government, to reply to the observations which had fallen from the noble marquis in a tone of such apparent rancour. He could not allow that statement to remain uncontradicted, considering, as he did, that the government of this country would be entitled to parliamentary support, in proportion as it adhered to the principles of Mr. Canning, whose name would be venerated long after his detractors had been consigned to oblivion.Lord Palmerston
 thought the clause was particularly objectionable, which curtailed the period of voting from fifteen days to six, because it affected the rights of the electors. Besides, there would be a great difficulty in identifying the voters at the different booths. The provision, which empowered the returning officer to close the poll on any day when two hundred voters had not polled, intrusted too great a power to such persons. He trusted the hon. gentleman would delay his measure till another session.Mr. Jones
 was persuaded that six days would be sufficient to answer all the purposes of borough elections, and would persist in his motion.Colonel Davies
 was anxious to facilitate the taking of polls at elections, but thought that the present bill would, in most cases, have the effect of limiting the elections to two days, and was, in its general tendency, injurious.Lord Lowther
729 thought the bill calculated to produce entire confusion in the proceedings at elections. It gave great power to returning officers, a class of persons who ought not to be intrusted with much power; and the plan of dividing counties into different districts would add
729Mr. Baring
 stated several clauses in the bill which he considered objectionable, and would render it inoperative. He concluded by moving, as an amendment, that the report be taken into further consideration on that day six months.Mr. Ross
 said, that the bill required pruning with no sparing hand, several of its clauses were too obnoxious to be carried into effect.Mr. Bernal
 considered it desirable that a bill similar in principle to the present should be introduced in Ireland, where it was even more necessary than in this country.Mr. North
 objected to the bill, as it contained such exceptionable minutiæ that he believed it was unwise to attempt to amend it. For these reasons, he was for getting rid of the bill for this session.Mr. Bright
 said, that whilst others found fault with the bill for doing too much, he was opposed to it because it did too little. Although he approved of the principle of the bill, he thought it inefficient, and should support the amendment.Mr. R. Gordon
 thought this bill was a very fair exemplification of the difficulty so generally experienced in attempting to make a measure palatable to every one. The bill certainly was good in principle, though ill-shaped and defective in its application. It destroyed also the responsibility of the returning officer, who was too often a partisan at elections. If it passed, its effect would be to render it absolutely necessary to bring down all the metropolitan freeholders and voters in the first instance, even from the most distant parts of the kingdom; which would prove enormously and often very needlessly expensive.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 hardly knew whether the hon. mover of this bill had been treated worse by his friends or his foes. He admitted that the bill ought to be simplified. With that view he hoped leave would be given by the House to his gallant friend to recommit it.Mr. Sykes
730 approved of the provisions of the bill, so far as they related to em-
730Mr. Wynn
 felt the objection as to limiting the polling days to six, so strong, that he would vote for the amendment, although friendly to the general principle of the bill.Mr. Robinson
 believed the evil intended to be redressed by this bill was inherent in the system, and not to be reached by any thing short of a positive enactment to prevent the rights of the actual resident freeholders and persons having property in the county or city from being invaded and rendered valueless by the out-voters at elections. That corrupt influence was generally more easily discernible in that class of voters, no person, who had experienced the consequences of a contested election, would deny. He would confine the right of voting in boroughs to persons either residing or having property within them, for, without some such enactment, it would be impossible to have any security against corruption.Sir J. Newport
 said, he could not give his consent to a bill which was at once egregious injustice and egregious absurdity. He then entered into a minute investigation of its clauses, for the purpose of showing that it was calculated not only to multiply the expense, but to increase the confusion of elections.The Attorney-general
 objected to the course taken by the opponents of the bill; which, to say the least of it, was most unusual. After an amendment had been negatived for deferring the consideration of a bill to that day six months, it was not very usual to call upon the House, within ten minutes afterwards, to reconsider its determination. He expressed himself favourable to the principle of the bill.Mr. Wynn
 objected to the bill entirely.Lord Lowther
 defended the conduct of the Attorney-general. Surely hon. members were not bound to let this bill go into another committee, if the only object of the gallant officer was to alter the bill in such a manner as to make an entirely new bill of it.Mr. Ross
 entreated the House to let the bill go into a committee. Hon. gentlemen did not so much object to the principle of the bill as to its clauses.Colonel Davies
 said, it was quite evident that an act might be legal, and yet come within the description given of the suspension of Mr. Rough by the Privy Council; namely, that it was not justified by absolute necessity.Lord F. Gower
 expressed his surprise that the agricultural interest should be adverse to the repeal of the laws which restrained the commerce in money.Mr. Maberly
 thought it would be best to fix a day for the discussion of the question. He was sorry he could not undertake that government would bring forward the measure.Mr. Secretary Peel
 hoped that something would be done to alleviate the sufferings of the petitioner.Mr. Sykes
 said, the Privy Council did not decide that the suspension of the petitioner was illegal; but they said that, under all the circumstances of the case, they thought the lieutenant-governor was not justified in suspending him. The Privy Council added, that they saw cause to regret the indiscreet conduct pursued by Mr. Serjeant Rough. The object of the presentation of the petition was to procure the appointment of Mr. Serjeant Rough to some judicial situation in the colonies. Now, it ought to be known, that lord Bathurst had offered Mr. Rough the chief-justiceship of Dominica, which he refused on account of ill-health. The right hon. gentleman was wrong in supposing that the petitioner had been advised by the Colonial Department not to resort to legal proceedings. Mr. Rough was merely informed, that it would not be desirable to adopt both courses; namely, to bring an action, and to appeal to the Privy Council. Under these circumstances, Mr. Rough adopted the latter proceeding, and he received every assistance from the Colonial Department in bringing forward his case. Upon the whole, he thought the House must be of opinion that this was a case which ought to be left entirely to the discretion of the executive government.Mr. Wilmot Norton
 thought it betrayed great partiality in hon. members to declare their intention to oppose a motion before they had heard the grounds on which it was to be supported.Sir G. Philips
 said, the question had already been so often discussed, that every person must be supposed to be acquainted with its merits.Mr. Bright
pro forma, said, he also would oppose the motion, though he would have no objection to the bill being read a first time pro forma,Mr. Calcraft
 presented a petition from certain merchants of London, praying "for the Repeal of the Usury Laws." The hon. member took occasion to say, that if any intention existed of taking the sense of the House I upon his motion, which stood for that evening, for the repeal of the Usury-laws, he would postpone it to a future day.Mr. P. Thompson
726725 said, he had a petition to present from Mr. Serjeant Rough, late president of the court of justice of the united colony of Demerara and Essequibo, to which he earnestly desired the attention of the House. The petitioner's case was one of peculiar hardship, and if it should meet with no remedy, it was deeply to be deplored. He was a man who, for his learning, integrity, and abilities, had been promoted to the office of president of the Supreme Court of a very important colony. From that office he was suspended by the governor. Such suspension was afterwards pronounced illegal and un-
726725Sir James Mackintosh
 declared himself unwilling to adopt any theoretical opinions upon the subject, unless they were reconcileable with experience, which was, after all, the best guide that practical men could adopt.Sir J. Wrottesley
 expressed his determination to divide the House on the question.Sir R. Williams
736 spoke of the length of time the discussion of the estimates had been deferred. The whole of them, it was agreed, should be submitted to the finance committee, under the expectation that it would have been able to examine and report upon the subject this year. The House, however, was now given to understand, that the committee had not gone fully into the evidence connected with the estimates. But the committee, though unable to make a report, was in possession of a great deal of information, which would, in all probability, prevent its members from voting for the estimates, as now proposed by ministers, for the adoption of the House. Thus, the members of the finance committee were in possession of information not calculated to induce them to approve of these estimates, while the House was shut out from the information referred to. It must be allowed, that there was a great deal of difficulty in the situation of the House in this respect, yet it was called on to exercise that judgment which it would have had to exercise if no finance committee had ever sat. Again, the committee must deal with our existing establishments, and report upon them as if the country was in a perfect state of peace, for the committee had not, and ought not to have, any political information upon the subject of peace or war; therefore the House would also have to judge of the estimates with respect to the present state of the country, and without reference to future contingencies. But the difficulty which the House must feel in dealing with the estimates consisted in this circumstance—that the chancellor of the Exchequer had not stated in what state the country really was. The House
736Mr. Maberly
 said, that the hon. member for Montrose had stated, that it was impossible for the finance committee to diminish the amount of the estimates, and he had added, that the right of determining that point rested with his majesty's government. Now, he must say, the decision upon this subject rested neither with the finance committee, nor with his majesty's government, but with parliament. There was no wish on the part of the government to throw any difficulty in the way of inquiry, or to prevent the examination of any person able to give information. The hon. member had stated his main principle to be, that the naval service required no more men now than was required in 1792. Now, without considering that the naval powers of other countries had grown up and assumed an important aspect, he would leave the House to consider, whether the principles of the hon. member were just or not. He believed, that the best course the finance committee could have taken was to recommend this grant to be received by the House, without making any report, which at present they were not prepared to make.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
prima facie741l.l.740 said, that, as he was a member of the finance committee, he would say a few words on the present subject. The hon. member for Aberdeen had told them, that the House and the public would be greatly disappointed by the report of that committee. On that assertion he would merely observe that, if the country was disappointed, it would be owing to the exertions of the hon. member himself and others, who had systematically deceived it on all matters of this nature. The hon. member had told them that great reductions ought to be made, he believed to the extent of seven or eight millions. Now, in examining the truth of such a position, he should have no occasion, in the course of his remarks, to bring any principle into dispute, for no difference could exist as to the propriety of remedying abuses, when they were once detected, or reducing the establishments as low as was compatible with the interests of the country. The difference existing amongst them was a difference as to the degree of reduction. The House would certainly he disappointed if it expected that the committee, keeping faith with the national
prima facie741l.l.740Mr. Wilmot Horton
742 said, that he too must claim the attention of the House for a few minutes, as he also was a member of the finance committee. He was sorry to say, that there had been greater irritation among the members of the finance committee in the course of the discussion of that evening, than had ever been felt among them during all its former sittings. He would say, that in the whole course of his parliamentary experience, he had never known any committee appointed to examine into an important subject in which greater harmony and good feeling had prevailed, than had all along prevailed in this committee; and he believed that there would be a general admission by individuals of all parties, that nothing could be more fair than the examination of the witnesses which had been brought before it. He differed entirely from the views which had been taken of the labours of the finance committee by the member for Aberdeen, and by his right hon. friend, the member for Newcastle. Both of them had spoken as if little was to be expected from the labours of the committee. The impression on his own mind was very different. He anticipated a considerable result from its labours; not, indeed, in any great reduction of the naval estimates, but of the expenses of the other departments. He had already seen enough in the finance committee to be convinced, that there was a great deal in them, all which required regulation, and which, when judiciously regulated, would be productive of a considerable saving to the country. His impression was, that it would, before it concluded its sittings, confer considerable benefit upon the community. This was one of the few committees of finance which had been conducted upon fair principles; and in which some person had not been employed on behalf of the ministry of the day to throw out some plan for the consideration of the
742Mr. Baring
l.l. complained that, though the finance committee was appointed to inquire into the state of the army, the navy, and the ordnance, departments, not a single naval or military officer had been appointed a member of it. The consequence was, that, from its want of professional knowledge it could not conduct its inquiries as well as it ought to do. He censured the right hon. member for Newcastle for the manner in which he had taunted the member for Aberdeen, on account of what he chose to style his extravagant notions of economy. He was one of those who approved of those notions, and, though he did not think that a reduction could be made to the amount of 7,000,000l.l.Colonel Davies
 said, he should be glad to induce men to enter into the navy voluntarily, instead of compelling them to serve. At the same time, he agreed with the noble lord, that we could not give up our power of impressment without endangering the naval superiority of the country. He admitted that it was our duty to restrict the exercise of the power within as narrow limits as possible, and that the necessity of resorting to impressment should always be made apparent whenever it was practised. The House had done much to mitigate the evils complained of in the navy in the course of the last war. By giving pensions to the men, the practice of desertion was greatly diminished, and the present situation of the navy was such, and the facility of obtaining sailors so great, that the Admiralty had been obliged to issue strict orders, restraining the officers in all the ports from taking men from the merchant service. Although this was the present condition of things, he feared insuperable difficulties stood in the way of the noble lord's proposal, and that the system on which he proposed to act was impracticable. However, every attention would be paid by the Admiralty to that, or to any other suggestion that had for its object to lessen the necessity for impressment.Sir G. Cockburn
745 said, he would not have risen but for the broad proposition stated by the noble lord who had just resumed his seat. From that proposition he most positively dissented. It amounted, in fact, to this, that not one farthing ought to exist in the shape of public revenue, unless its existence had been previously justified by a proof of its absolute necessity. He could not conceive how any man who looked at the origin of revenue in England, could say it was necessary that we should know the amount of our income before we proceeded to dispose of it in our expenditure. He said boldly, that the manner in which all supplies in that House were voted proved distinctly that the principle on which they were voted was, that all that was possible should be saved to the country. If he was right in that statement, then the whole speech of the noble lord must be founded in error. He agreed with the hon. member for Callington, that, if the House were to judge of the good understanding and harmony of the finance committee from the specimen which they had seen of it that night, it would form a very wrong opinion on the subject. Among the members of the committee who had spoken, there were some who had spoken, as it appeared to him, with more warmth than the occasion required. In none of the committees, at which he had been present, had he ever seen so much cordiality, and so strong a disposition to arrive at the wisest conclusions, as he had seen in the finance committee. It therefore surprised him extremely to hear, from the hon. member for Montrose, so severe an attack upon the committee. It surprised him extremely to hear an hon. member get up in his place and desire them to throw away all hope of good from a committee so discharging its numerous duties. He was surprised to hear the hon. member say, that the committee had regularly taken that evidence which was least sufficient for its own purposes. If that charge were true, then had the finance committee failed most lamentably in its duty; and, what was more to
745Mr. Herries
 said, that the statement which the hon. member for Preston had read was given to that hon. member by himself, and he would vouch for its correctness.Mr. Maberly
 assured the hon. member he meant no personal imputation by the use of the word garbled.Mr. Herries
748747746 agreed with the noble lord, that on going into the committee they ought to be guided by one principle; namely, the means of meeting the expenditure; but he did not agree with the noble lord, that no vote ought to be granted until a necessity for the grant was shewn actually to exist. Such a principle could not be reduced into practice. If the Crown should think it necessary, for the support of the public honour, to go to war to-morrow, the question would not be whether there was enough in the Treasury for the war, but how best to supply the means of supporting what the Crown had determined on. It was not the principle of the constitution, or the practice of the country, to suppose that any means preexisted. He expressed his anticipations of much benefit resulting from the finance committee. The hon. member for Aberdeen supposed a vast saving could be effected. He disbelieved this; but he thought that, if they assented to the appointment of a committee, they should allow no appeals from it to that House; at least until its report was laid before them. Nothing had been publicly heard upon the subject
748747746Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 said, the information of the right hon. gentleman was not altogether correct. As an humble member of the committee, he was able to state, that that body did not think great national questions within its province. The subject of colonial policy, for instance, had been placed entirely out of view on that account; and it had been determined that it belonged to the executive government.Mr. Fyshe Palmer
749 expressed his conviction, in accordance with his previous sentiments, that neither the House nor the country would trouble itself much about the labours of the finance committee. He had much confidence in the exertions of the individual members; but he maintained that, however proper it might be to appoint a finance committee, it ought not to supersede the functions of the government, and that the discussions on the estimates ought not to be postponed. He looked at that appointment chiefly as an expedient for getting over the session, and not with any expectation that its labours would produce any effect on the estimates. Late as it was in the session, it was still the duty of the House minutely to investigate every thing relating to the expenditure of the country, more especially under the admission, that in the last year the receipts had fallen short of the expenditure. Whether the finance committee had travelled out of its proper course, was not a question for the House at present to consider; but whatever had been done by the select body, it was the duty of ministers to come forward with some proposition to meet the exigencies of the country, by making a most material reduction. The first point was, to consider what the country could afford, and not what it wanted. In 1817 lord Castlereagh had stated the amount of the army and navy he considered necessary; and what had happened since that year, to warrant an increase of eighteen thousand or nineteen thousand men in the former, and a proportionate augmentation in the latter? The
749Mr. Alderman Waithman
bona fide756755754753 said, that the hon. baronet (sir H. Parnell) and other gentlemen of the finance committee, had stated the partial evidence taken be-
bona fide756755754753Sir George Cockburn
 begged his gallant friend's pardon. He did not anticipate that a familiar term like that would have given him offence.Sir G. Cockburn
l.761in limine said, that in deciding on this question, his object was, in the first instance, to consider whether the reduction proposed was a fair and proper one. Now, under ordinary circumstances, he should have been stopped, l.761in limineMr. Maberly
732, in moving the order of the day for the House resolving itself into a Committee of Supply, wished to say a few words, for the purpose of laying before the House what he conceived would be sufficient grounds to justify it in entering upon the consideration of the Navy Estimates, previous to its receiving the Report of the Finance Committee. On the appointment of that committee, it was expected that it would be enabled to make its Report in sufficient time to admit of being taken into consideration, antecedent to voting the estimates. In the course, however, of their investigations they had met with difficulties and delays, which in all probability,
732The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in explanation, observed, that he did certainly say, in his evidence, that the coast-blockade force was not absolutely necessary for the suppression of smuggling, but he had added, that there were considerable naval advantages to be derived from it in other ways. In his evidence before the committee he had said, that the suppression of smuggling, might be provided for in another way, but not so effectually. He at the same time took occasion to point out to the committee the advantage which the naval service derived from the blockade service in cases of emergency, and the great saving which resulted from their being substituted for Customhouse officers.Sir G. Cockburn
767 said, he had not been prepared, on entering the House, for the proposition of the hon. baronet, and he had listened with great attention to the arguments on both sides—prepared, if he should see reason, to urge upon the government the observance of that economy which the finances of the country required. But, after the able arguments which he had heard from the Secretary to the Admiralty, and from the hon. member for Wareham, he could not vote for the proposed reduction. He was bound to believe on the authority of ministers, that if this force were done away with, it would be necessary to man the guard-ships, and
767Sir James Graham
 said, a gallant officer who was employed in the coast-blockade-service, had informed him that the transactions in which the individuals connected with that service were employed, were such as greatly deteriorated the character of British seamen. If he voted for the amendment of his hon. friend, he did not think he should be doing any mischief to the naval service. It would be given with a view to the reduction of the coast-blockade-service, and not with any desire to weaken the naval service generally.Mr. Bernal
735 said, that in the course of the last war, he had witnessed scenes of horror arising out of impressment, to get rid of a repetition of which no exertion ought to be wanting. During the whole of the war he had seen the port of Hull disturbed by broils and contests, brought on by the state of the law as it regarded compulsory service. Men who had gone long voyages, and had just come home to enjoy the society of their friends and families, were put on board king's ships, and kept afloat six or seven years. To avoid so terrible an infliction, men would go to all extremities. He remembered an instance of some men, who, having picked up a little of the Prussian language, all swore they were Prussians, with a view to escape. It was a shocking state of things under which men could be so seized and torn from their families for years. Arbitrary punishment was another great evil in the navy; and the consequence was, to occasion among seamen a dislike to the service. If any plan could be devised to induce seamen voluntarily to enter the service, it would be ex-
735Mr. Sykes
 thought, that in the present circumstances of the country it would be most unwise to reduce the force of the navy. Perhaps it would be soon found necessary to raise ten thousand additional seamen, instead of disbanding two thousand. That, he thought, was not at all improbable. The preventive service, under the board of Customs, had put an end to smuggling. He did not mean to argue whether the system was or was not good in itself, but certainly the end for which it was established had been answered.Mr. Curteis
 said, that as his gallant friend had disclaimed any reflection on him, he was satisfied. The reason that induced him to intrude upon the House, was his desire to vindicate his profession, He would say, that knowing the privations naval officers endured, and the anxious hours they passed, it was the duty of the House to save them from disappointment and injustice. The officer in the navy looked to a flag as the pinnacle of his ambition; but if, by patience and perseverance, he finally became a post captain, it was as much as he could ordinarily expect The gallant admiral had asked, what right the naval officer had to expect to be an admiral, because he might be on the post-list? He answered that he had every right. If there was nothing against his character, he had a right to look to a flag. Not one officer out of ten who entered the service, attained the rank of post-captain: yet, if he served with an unblemished character, he deserved all that the country could bestow on him. Under the present system, a man served for six years, and then, by interest, or excellent conduct, was made a lieutenant, and placed on half-pay. He thus became an annuitant on the public, a burthen to himself and to the country. Perhaps he was made a commander, and after serving a few years with credit and distinction, by special favour, good luck, or great merit, was appointed on the post-list. Then he was to be told by the gallant admiral, that he had no right to expect a flag. His royal highness, the lord high Admiral, he was convinced, had every inclination to consult the benefit of the service. He looked towards the exertions of his royal highness with the utmost confidence; and, in his opinion, the placing of that illustrious person at the head of the navy was one of the greatest boons that was ever conferred on that service. He hoped that in future the vacillating system of which he complained,—the system of issuing orders in council on one day and retracting them the next—would be effectually corrected.Admiral Evans
 said, that as he was one of those officers whom the gallant admiral had called "yellow admirals," he must tell the House, that the yellow flag was formerly the signal for punishment in the navy, and that he considered the allusion entirely gratuitous on the part of the gallant admiral,Admiral Evans
737 declared it to be his fixed opinion, that impressment was necessary in the navy, under existing circumstances. The state had a right to command the services of its subjects in its defence. The navy was our principal defence, and must be supported by compulsory service until a substitute could be found. The principle of compulsory service was also recognised in our militia system. From what he could collect, the naval service was now infinitely more popular among seamen than formerly, in consequence of the wants and comforts of the men being attended to, and great improvements having taken place in the whole system. The hon. gentleman proceeded to argue, that we were not at war. The occurrence at Navarin could not be denominated war. We were at peace, though not, perhaps, in a profound peace. He was surprised that the finance committee had not made a report on the subject of the estimates. It had now sat three months, and the only report that had been obtained from it was that respecting annuities. He therefore thought that the committee proceeded rather tardily in its labours, and that the House had a right to expect information, which, he was sorry to say, had not been afforded. His hon. friend, who preceded him, was in possession of information obtained as a member of the finance committee, and could, therefore, discuss the estimates with additional advantages,
737Mr. Calcraft
763 supported the original resolution. Government had told the House, that 30,000 men were necessary, and that, if they did not choose to employ a portion of these men in the preventive service, it would be expedient to fully man the guardships, where the seamen did nothing; but as in the case of Portugal, the country derived benefit from the labours of the men occupied in the preventive service. Surely, then, they would not deprive the navy of such a force, which might next year be wanted in the Mediterranean. It would be most impolitic to deprive the navy of upwards of one,
763Mr. Calcraft
760 said, the first objection made by the noble lord was, that the coast blockade and the preventive service being placed under different authorities, were likely to be mutually jealous of each other. This, however, was not the case. The two services were perfectly distinct, and never came in contact with one another. The coast blockade began on the coast of Kent, and extended down the river Thames, and part of the river Lea, to Chichester. Whether on the extreme point, where the services met, there might not be some collision, he could neither affirm nor deny; but even if there were, that did not constitute a reason for doing away with the coast blockade. Elsewhere, there could not be the least contact between the two services. The noble lord seemed to be of opinion, that the preventive service was more useful than the coast blockade, because they got information from the revenue department: but did he not know that the king's ships were also employed against smugglers, and that the coast blockade were enabled to give information to the officers of those ships? For his own part, he did not think the proposition of the noble lord was of any great moment, one way or other; because either the preventive service or the coast blockade must act on any information given to them. The noble lord had observed, that the coast blockade was not the best school for officers. Perhaps it was not for those who were going to sea; but he could not therefore consent, that, it should be altogether thrown overboard. That force was commanded by officers of the navy. They were lieutenants; and whether the school
760Mr. Croker
 denied, that he was capable of garbling any extract.Mr. Wood
l.l.l.743l.l.l.l. said, he had heard with considerable surprise the statement which had been made by the right hon. member for Newcastle. He had said, that hon. members had no right to allude to the finance for the year, as the statement of it had not yet been laid on the table of the House. It was of that very point that he rose to complain. In his mind, a financial statement the House ought, as a matter of necessity, to have, now that it was going to vote the different estimates; for surely, before they voted the establishments, they should know what amount of revenue they had to pay them with. He was not a member of the finance committee; but he understood that a statement of the finances of the country had been laid before it; and, if his information was correct, there was an actual deficiency of 127,000l.l.l.743l.l.l.l.Mr. John Wood
739 said, it was impossible for one committee to do the duty devolved upon this. When he stated to the House that the committee had as yet only taken up three branches of the public service out of twenty that ought to come before them, and that it had not yet got half through these, it would be perceived that hon. members must exercise their patience. He had before stated that several committees would be necessary to perform the duties devolved upon one. The hon. member for Wareham had as good a chance for obtaining information as the finance committee, for they had as yet only had before them official men, who, without attempting to convey any personal imputation on their honesty, were, generally speaking, disposed to defend the establishments with which they were connected. In consequence of this, the committee had only succeeded in obtaining general information. Under all the circumstances, he thought the House must regret that so much time had been suffered to pass without taking the estimates into consideration. As far as he knew at present, there was no intention on the part of government, to reduce a single pound of the expense of any one of the estimates. If we went on as we did last year, we should be unable to pay our expenditure, without having a loan from the Bank. There was not an amount of income sufficient to defray the expense of the estimates then on the table; and he should, therefore, oppose them as long as they continued on their present scale. He called on the ministers of the Crown to say what reduction they contemplated on the whole of the estimates; and he did this because he was aware it rested with, the minister, and not with the finance committee, to reduce them. The committee calculated upon what was necessary in a state of peace. And he was ready to say, that if we were in a state of peace? We only required the same number of seamen as we had in 1793. Why ask for thirty-thousand seamen if we were in a state of peace? The ministers ought to declare in what condition the country really was, as it regarded, our foreign relations, and it
739Mr. Hume
766765 said, he had never before heard, that a member of a committee was precluded from giving an opinion on any subject before that House. He had not a single page of the evidence by him; but if he had thought that, such a question would have been raised, he would have brought down the whole, and read from it every syllable which bore upon the subject. Why were they, in the present state of the country, to vote thirty thousand men, when, at former periods, a smaller number had been found necessary? At other periods, whenever an increase was proposed, it was considered the duty of the person proposing it to state the reasons of it. Every augmentation of our force had been declared necessary, from the existence of new services; but as those new services ceased, our force had not been diminished; and no reason had been assigned for continuing a force when the cause which created it had ceased to exist. What was the reason that they should now keep up such a force as this, when they had not the
766765Mr. Hume
 said, that, with respect to the blockade service, he was ready to admit that the execution of that service was apt to lead men away from what would be called proper and correct service; but there was no service in which a seaman's courage and abilities were more exercised. Why, then, should they take it away? If he were appointed to the command of a ship of the line, nothing would give him greater pleasure than to have one hundred men from this service to serve under him. He did think the proposal of reduction was very extraordinary, when it was notorious that all the other powers, and especially France, were increasing instead of diminishing their naval force.Sir C. Cole
762 thought it would have been much fairer, if the evidence given before the finance committee had not been referred to. He thought the committee, and even the country, was likely to receive injury from the course which had been taken. It was most true that the gallant officer, and other members of the government, had given their evidence
762Sir E. Knatchbull
l.l.l.750 rose for the purpose of detailing the estimates for the naval service in the present year. It would be recollected, that in the early part of the session, only half the sum to be required had been voted, under the expectation that the finance committee would soon make its report, regulating the expenditure of the different departments. The labours of that body having been unusually extended, it had become necessary to call for the remainder of the money; and it was proposed only to take the balance of the estimates, as originally laid upon the table. Hence he should secure the acquiescence of the hon. member for Wareham, who had said, that he should not object to vote the sum remaining due upon the estimates some months since laid upon the table. The number of seamen and marines was thirty thousand; and he was sure that no man who had turned his attention to the subject would wish that number to be reduced. Although the nation was at peace with all the world, its commerce was spread to every corner of it. In many parts of the globe serious disturbances prevailed, and a large naval force was therefore necessary for the protection of our trade, independent of the depredations to which it had been exposed in the Levant and in the West Indies. It was unnecessary for him to say more upon this point, because not a single member had stated that he thought the number too great, excepting the hon. member for Montrose; who, as usual, had insisted upon the naval establishment of 1792. When the hon. alderman (Waithman) expressed his surprise at the addition to the naval force since 1817, he
l.l.l.750Sir George Clerk
l.bona fidel.751 said, that when he last spoke, it was in his capacity of Chairman of the Committee of Finance: he now appeared in his own character—that of an individual member of parliament. He felt no disposition, under the circumstances, to resist the vote; but if it was proposed as the final peace establishment he should decidedly object to it. He did not think that any correct standard could be arrived at by referring back to former periods of undisturbed tranquillity. There was one part of the service in which he was of opinion that a reduction might properly be made. The committee of finance had taken into consideration the expediency of continuing the coast blockade, and, from the evidence taken, he, for one, had arrived at the conclusion that it might be dispensed with. The object of preventing
l.bona fidel.751Sir H. Parnell
 defended the finance committee from the charge of the want of due diligence or discretion in the course of its labours. It had had already forty-seven sittings; thirty-eight witnesses had been examined: it had ordered the production of three hundred and thirty-seven accounts, and two thousand sheets of letter-press, the results of its investigations were already actually printed. He thought, therefore, there had been no lack of diligence. On the subject of discretion, with respect to the course it was prepared to follow, no blame attached to the committee. It had acted upon the principle, that no report should be made to the House until it was in possession of every thing which could enable it to report with accuracy upon the important subjects submitted to its consideration. The committee was well aware of the wish of the House for a report from it on the public estimates; and it had already gone through those of the army, navy, and ordnance, in a general way. In attempting to prepare reports upon these branches of public expenditure, the committee found that its inquiries went to such an extent, as to render it impossible to make any thing like a perfect report. Had it originally taken up one branch the result might have been different. However, as the case stood, it appeared that public business would have been greatly delayed, if the right hon. gentleman had been compelled to wait for the committee's report; and, accordingly, the present course was resorted to as the best that could be adopted.Sir H. Parnell
l.764 defended the finance committee from the censure of not having made a report. The House would recollect, that the finance committee of 1817 did make a report, but he would ask any hon. member to point out the good which resulted from that report. Any hon. member who would take the trouble to refer to the report, would see at once that the committee and its report were used merely for the purpose of helping the government to accomplish the measures they had in contemplation at the time, and that no advantage was derived from the labours of the committee, with reference to the financial condition of the country. The present committee had avoided the errors of its predecessors, by taking time to become possessed of all the requisite information before they ventured to make a report. When he addressed the House before, he had pointed out, as an individual member of the House, the objections he felt to the vote of thirty thousand men, and he had availed himself, as he had a right to do, of the information he obtained elsewhere. When, therefore, he was asked to vote money for the naval service, and the prevention of smuggling, he thought he had full right to make use of any information he
l.764Sir H. Parnell
752 congratulated the House and the government, that the chairman of the finance committee had been able to do no more than suggest a reduction of two thousand seamen. It was well understood that the coast blockade was, as it were, the dépôt of the Admiralty, from which, on an emergency, it could be furnished instantly with men for three or four vessels if needed; and for this reason he should vote against the amendment. Me was rather surprised to find that no report had been made upon the subject of the experimental squadrons, which had been built and sent out in order to try the respective merits of particular modes of construction. The scientific individuals who were engaged in building the vessels had themselves commanded them; or, in the language of the turf, they had jockied their own horses. No expense was spared; various alterations were made in the placing of the masts, and in the size of the sails, in order that the experiment might end satisfactorily; and he hoped that the prin-
752Sir J. Yorke
 said, the noble lord had chosen a singular time for introducing the subject. It would have been much better if he had asked for a select committee. Whenever such a committee should be called for, to examine the knotty question of compulsory service, he would be one of the first to recommend investigation, with a view to improvement; for he was satisfied that many modes might be devised to mitigate or do away with a vast deal of the horrors which had been so forcibly described.Sir J. Yorke
 said, that the hon. baronet had completely justified the committee from the charges of negligence and inefficiency. With respect to the subject of impressment he was sure that a disposition existed to remedy as far as possible the evils to which it gave rise, but he was completely satisfied that it was a power that never ought to be relinquished.Sir M. W. Ridley
738 said, that on sitting days the finance committee had seldom or
738Sir J. Newport
 said, that since the year 1792, every power had been endeavouring to get the better of the English navy. The proposal for reduction, therefore, seemed to him to be a most extraordinary one. If it were agreed to, and there should arise an American or any other war, in what a condition would this country be placed?Sir J. Beresford
759758 said, that his hon. friend who moved the present amendment had been unfairly alluded to, on account of his having referred to the evidence given before the finance committee. Now, he
759758Lord Althorp
733 would not now have offered himself to the notice of the House, if he had not observed that the chairman of the finance committee was not then in his place, to confirm the statement of the right hon. gentleman opposite, relative to its being the wish of the committee that the mode now suggested for the disposal of the estimates, should be adopted. There was another reason which induced him to address the House. He alluded to a question of great public importance, on which it had long been his anxious desire to submit some observations; namely, that of impressment in the navy. He wished to state his opinions upon the subject, because he knew that he went to an extent upon this point, to which others refused to go. He felt there were many and great evils in the system of impressment, but he believed that much of the evil was necessary and unavoidable. It would be impossible for us to maintain our naval superiority, or to man our fleet so efficiently and quickly as was desirable in the event of a war, without possessing the power of enforcing compulsory service; but many things might be done in mitigation of the evils occasioned by impressment. As matters now stood, circumstances rendered it impossible to dispense with the power of impressment at such a time. If we could not man our fleet rapidly, the commerce of the country might be ruined at the commencement of hostilities. Besides, the principle of compulsory service was not confined to England—the practice, in one shape or other, existed in all countries of the world. He did not exactly know how America was circumstanced in this respect. He would point out some of the evils connected with the practice of impressment. In the first place, he reckoned as an evil, the interference with the personal liberty of the seaman, who was, perhaps, at the time, serving aboard a merchant vessel; and the circumstance of his being deprived of the right to choose the nature of his employment. But this was an evil which, as if formed the basis of the system, he feared it was impossible to get rid of. Another
733Lord Althorp
744 said, the public had some right to be disappointed as to the result of the labours of the committee; but it was the House, and not the committee, who were to blame, the House having put too much upon the committee. The committee ought to carry on its labours without reference to political circumstances. They must, then, consider what the circumstances of the country required. How was it possible to go into a detail of so many subjects in a short time? As to the navy, for instance, the committee must inquire into the best possible means to be adopted for diminishing the expense of ship-building. On this point they must examine scientific men; and this was only a small branch of the subject. The committee should have confined their attention to the actual state of the country. He could not agree with the right hon. gentleman, that certain es-
744Lord Howick
772 said, he wished to call the attention of the Secretary for the Home Department to the state of the supply of Water to the Metroplis. It involved matters of great importance, and was closely connected with the health and comfort of the inhabitants. He could have wished that the report which had been made upon the subject had gone a little further than it did, and had pointed out, not only the defects of the present system, but also the remedy that might be applied to them. What he proposed was, to carry the inquiry a step further, and empower the committee to consider of a plan for the improvement of the water supplied to the metropolis. The opinion of engineers should be taken upon the subject, and the most practicable mode of procuring an abundant and wholesome supply of water investigated. What he now wished to
772Sir F. Burdett
774773 said he had read the minutes of the report alluded to, with considerable interest. It was natural enough that companies formed in order to supply the metropolis with that essential of comfort, and indeed of life, should form these associations with a view to the private profit and emolument likely to arise out of the speculation. The next thing probably considered was the obtaining the supply required, and the last the quality of the water itself. Of these companies there were five principal Ones. The New River, the East London, West Middlesex, Chelsea, and Grand Junction Companies, supplying the northern parts of London and the city of Westminster. With reference to the evidence as respected the Grand Junction Water Company against the quality of whose water several insinuations had been thrown out during the examination, he did not think the water could be characterised as bad. It appeared from the statements in evidence—"That the portion of the town upon the north side of the river Thames, including the cities of London and Westminster, is supplied daily with a quantity of water amounting to nearly twenty-six millions of gallons, and that the total number of houses and buildings receiving this supply amounts to about one hundred and forty-four thousand. The water is of course very unequally distributed, the average consumption in each house being apparently greatest in the district supplied by the Grand Junction Company, where it amounts to about three hundred and sixty-three gallons daily per house. Taking the average of the whole supply, the daily consumption of each house is about one hundred and eighty gallons. Of this water, more than one half of which is derived from the Thames, a large portion is delivered at very considerable elevations above the level of the river, constituting what is
774773Mr. Secretary Peel
 (Mr. John Wood) said, he understood that could not be done.The Chairman
 doubted whether the hon. gentleman had adopted the most convenient course, as he did not think that the preamble was applicable to the nature of this amendment.Mr. Peel
779 said, if he abstained from any comments on the variety of observations with which the hon. gentleman had prefaced his particular questions, he trusted that no inference of any kind would be drawn from his silence. He trusted it would be sufficient for him to allude to the inconvenience which must arise from the partial discussion of such important matters, in the absence of that full information which alone could enable the House to decide upon the conduct of the government. If he did not enter into any detailed answer to the different questions, he trusted they would not interpret his conduct into any unwillingness on his part to defend every step which had been taken by his majesty's government in those transactions, but that they would consider prudence alone as the motive which dictated caution upon all the topics, and absolute silence upon some of them.—With respect to the particular questions now put, all the answer he could give, consistently with his duty was this,—that from the moment the treaty of the 6th of July was signed, there had been on the part of the advisers of the Crown, a sincere desire scrupulously to fulfil its engagements. He thought he might also say, that it was the opinion of the government, considering the length of the struggle between Greece and Turkey, that the interests of humanity, as well as of England and Europe, required that an end should be put to the contest as soon as possible, and a permanent arrangement effected, as to the relations in which Turkey and Greece should hereafter stand towards each other. England was prepared to fulfil all her engagements, and in common with her allies to concert the means of carrying the treaty into execution. It was now notorious to the world, that events had materially changed the relations
779Mr. Secretary Peel
 asked the hon. gentleman whether it was his intention to persevere in this bill?Mr. N. Calvert
l.l.780 said, that in that case, he should move an amendment; for he could not consent to the county of Nottingham being deprived of two of its members, as it already had not above its fair share. It was therefore his intention to move, that instead of the right of voting being taken away from the borough, it should be put into the hands of such
l.l.780Mr. N. Calvert
800 said, that the agricultural interests were dwindling away daily, and
800Mr. N. Calvert
801 said, that the present was a great contitutional question, involving the most important interests of the country. He could not, therefore, consider it merely as a question between the agricultural and trading interests of the community. He could not help expressing his surprise at the ground taken by the hon. member for Hertfordshire, and at the arguments by which he had supported his position. That hon. member had treated the subject as one purely between the two contending interests. Now, he could make no such distinction, but should consider it as a great constitutional question. The right hon. Secretary (Mr. Peel) had condescended to give them his opinion upon it. For half an hour he had listened to the right hon. gentleman without being able to guess which way the balance would turn. At last it came out, that one franchise was to be given to the landed, and the other to the manufacturing interest; but the right hon. gentleman had used no argument at all. He had, indeed, talked a good deal about expediency, but he was at a loss to know what the right hon. gentleman meant by expediency in this case. As to what had been quoted from judge Blackstone, that judge had taken nearly the very words of Bolingbroke, and the Tory writer Hume had used the same language. They were here asked to transfer the franchise of East Retford to the hundred, instead of to Birmingham, which was one-fourth larger, whose population was one-third more, and which was infinitely superior to the hundred, whether they considered the taxation which it paid, or the property it included. The present arrangement proposed to give the right of franchise abso-
801Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that though he took a great interest in the county of Nottingham, yet, if this question came to a vote, he should prefer giving the franchise to an opulent town rather than to his own county.Lord Ranclife
807Dum cadat elusus ratione ruentis acervi."Paulatim vello; et demo unum, demo etiam unum,"Utor permisso caudæqup pilos ut equinæ806805 said, he regretted to hear, in a question of such constitutional importance as the present, any allusion to private or personal motives in those who supported it. In the vote which he was now about to give, he would support that one of the three propositions before the committee, in which alone he could be said to have no personal interest. He considered that there were three propositions before the House;—one for giving the franchise to Birmingham, another for transferring it to Manchester, and a third for extending it to the adjoining hundred of Bassetlaw. He would not have mentioned Manchester if it had not been alluded to by the right hon. Secretary. Now, it so happened, that those who were likely to become candidates for Bassetlaw, should the House decide on bestowing the franchise on that hundred, were, with the exception of a right hon. gentleman who had been named, his personal friends. In Manchester it was well known he had a considerable connexion, but in Birmingham he had none whatever; yet, for that place he would give his vote, and he hoped that no competition between that place and Manchester would be made, as it would tend to weaken the greater question of taking the franchise from the corrupt borough of East Retford. To the country generally it was of no importance which of the two was represented. He wished that both could be so; but as that was not to be hoped for at present, he trusted that no difference would arise between the friends of either place. The real question was, whether the corrupt borough should be disfranchised, and he did hope, that no jealousies would prevent its being extended to that town, whose name had been connected with its disfranchisement, as Manchester had been with that of Penryn. He would now say a word or two as to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, with reference to the measure before the House of Lords. The right hon. gentleman had told them, that he could not know what had occurred in another place. It was true, he could not, at the present moment, know it officially; but was it possible he could not know it practically? Was there, he would ask, any man who could remain for forty-eight hours practically ignorant of what was going on in that House? The right hon.
807Dum cadat elusus ratione ruentis acervi."Paulatim vello; et demo unum, demo etiam unum,"Utor permisso caudæqup pilos ut equinæ806805Mr. Stanley
 said, that his noble friend was not incorrect, as to what had fallen from him on a former occasion; but when he said that if they adopted the proposition of the hon. member for Hertfordshire they would create a precedent for future occasions, he could not admit the principle, that the franchise should always in future be transferred to a great town whenever any borough might be disfranchised. The House might make a bad selection, and as what his right hon. friend near him said, related only to a choice between two towns, so his opinion had been that it would be better to extend the franchise to the neighbourhood of the town which had formerly enjoyed it, rather than to a distant part of the kingdom. Now, as to the present, which his noble friend considered a strange course, it should be recollected, that when the House first took upon itself to punish for corruption, it did not disfranchise any borough, but considered that a corrective was applied by throwing the liberty open to the vicinage; and that had been done in the cases of Shoreham, Aylesbury, and other places, and the argument in favour of that course was strengthened when there were numbers in any place who had not vitiated their franchise by using it for corrupt purposes. In such cases parliament had no right to take away the franchise, and thus punish innocent persons for guilt incurred by others. The proposition, however, of the hon. member for Hertfordshire, was not to infuse fresh blood into the borough by letting in the freeholders of the vicinage, but to deal with East Retford as they had with Grampound; and then, by giving the franchise to the neighbourhood, to create a new representation.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
l. said, that his object was, to give the franchise to the freeholders of the hundred in which East Retford stood, and who were about two thousand in number; and also to continue it to such of the freemen of East Retford as were rated at 20l.Mr. N. Calvert
 said, that did go, in fact, to annihilate the borough, as in the case of Grampound, inasmuch as it transferred the right of the voters to the hundred of East Retford, and created a new right in the borough. He did therefore wish that further time should be given; because he thought the hon. member for Hertfordshire's motion was entirely different from the instruction to the committee, which was:—"in order to prevent all unlawful proceedings, and that the borough be duly represented." He maintained, however, that it would no longer be represented if this motion were agreed to, and that the motion called on the House to transfer the franchise to the neighbouring hundred. Under these circumstances, he felt a great difficulty, and wished that the decision on this question should be postponed. As to the insertion of Manchester in this bill, it would be irregular, because another bill had been sent up to the Lords, which might pass, and in which Manchester was also inserted. The better way, therefore, was to postpone the decision until the fate of the other bill should be known.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
812l.811 said, he wished to make a few observations in reply to the remarks of an hon. member opposite, in reference to what had fallen from him (Mr. Peel) as to a compromise, and affecting his own personal character, which he felt more deeply concerned for than for any constitutional question. He denied that he held out any particular compromise. It might be true, that he had said he would give no opinion as to Penryn, until he knew what was done with East Retford, because he knew that the policy of the whole measure depended on whether there was one or two places to deal with. He denied, however, that he had entered into any compromise, which bound him to a particular case. It there was one borough only, he claimed a right to say whether he would dispose of it to the hundred, or to a great town. He left the hon. gentleman to the care and conduct of his own bill; and he had, in an early part
812l.811Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he gave the right hon. gentleman full credit for acting from the most conscientious motives: but, he must repeat, that comparing the right hon. gentleman's course that night with what he had held out on a former occasion, his parliamentary conduct was not consistent, The right hon. gentleman had said, that he was not bound by any declaration made at a former period. If not, what avail was it, before dealing with the present case, to see how the oilier was disposed of by the Lords? The right hon. gentleman gave it to be clearly understood, that he was disposed to give one borough to the one interest, and the other borough to the other interest. In the same breath in which the right hon. gentleman denied that he had made any compromise, he recommended waiting, until it should be ascertained what the other House had done with the other bill. What was that but a compromise? He was opposed to waiting. To go on without such a reference was the constitutional doctrine. As to Mr. Canning's vote on the Penryn question, that was no compromise. He might, perhaps, have expressed himself too strongly when he used the words "miserable compromise;" if so, he was sorry for it; but he must still maintain, that the right hon. gentleman's conduct was a compromise of constitutional principle. Mr. Canning had been guilty of no compromise; he had voted as he had done, because he-thought there was not sufficient evidence to justify him in voting otherwise.Mr. Stanley
813 said, he must again positively deny, that he made use of any words which pledged him as to the course he should pursue, if the two places were to be disposed of. He might have contended
813Mr. Peel
802 said, he had already stated his view of the course fit to be pursued on the present question, and hardly felt that he should be justified in detaining the House by repeating it. He had proved by his vote in the case of Penryn, that he had no aversion, under some circumstances, to the transfer of a borough franchise to a town of great manufacturing interest. But he confessed, that, in doing this, he meant to recognize no general principle, and was a good deal governed by the circumstances of the case. He thought there was a difference between the position of Penryn, which had twice been warned by bills in that House, of the effect of the course which it was pursuing, and the case of East Retford, the disposal of
802Mr. Secretary Peel
815 said, the question was, whether there was to be any reduction at all in the public expenditure? If there was, the House should attend, in the first
815Mr. Maberly
 agreed with the gallant admiral, that it was hard that an officer who had served his country bravely in war, should pine in want and obscurity during peace. But the amount of the deadweight was a matter of serious importance. In the army it was nearly three millions, and in the navy upwards of one.Colonel Davies
816 contended, that a fair proportion of old officers had been brought forward in the recent promotions; but it was a principle he had always maintained, and in which he had been supported by that House, that a certain portion of young officers should be included with them. Among the lieutenants recently made, there was a large proportion of midshipmen, who had passed their examination in 1815. It was absolutely impossible to refuse promotion to those who were in constant service, or to such claims as arose from events like the battle of Navarin, or from exposure to climates, like the coast of Africa or the West Indies. It would require a hard heart indeed to tell men, on their return home, after years spent abroad in such places as these, that they should not be promoted. He would not argue the question by reference to the feelings of the House, because he knew by experience that he could carry them with him; but he acknowledged, as one of pure policy, it was attended with great difficulties. When he was told by the
816Sir G. Cockburn
l. said, that the hon. member for Hertfordshire wished still to preserve the franchise to those freemen who were rated at 20l.Lord W. Powlett
799l.l.l.l.l.l.l.798797796795794vis medicatrix793l.l.l.;792l.l.l.791per se790pro re natâ789788787786785784783782781 rose and spoke as follows:—Mr. Speaker, notwithstanding the disposition manifested by the House on a former night, in favour of the proposal of my hon. friend, I must confess I did entertain a hope that he would have decided to abandon it after what has since occured in the other House of parliament, with regard to the bill for disfranchising the borough of Penryn. The main grounds upon which he received the support of the House no longer exist; but as he thinks it expedient to persevere, I wish to remind the committee that, by the vote of the 21st of March, to which I have referred, we are not in any manner bound to adopt this proposition. That vote merely enabled this committee to take it into consideration, and to examine the claims of the hundred of Bassetlaw in competition with those of the important town, to which this bill yet destines the elective franchise.799l.l.l.l.l.l.l.798797796795794vis medicatrix793l.l.l.;792l.l.l.791per se790pro re natâ789788787786785784783782781Mr. Tennyson
804l.803 said, that the proposition was, whether, in transferring the franchise from a borough which had been proved to be corrupt, they should allow the principle of representation to keep pace with the population of the country, or whether the representation of the Commons should remain stationary while the Lords received constant accessions of wealth and influ-
804l.803Mr. Littleton
 contended, that the identity of the landed interest was such, that the member for one county might easily represent any other, but that the interests of different species of manufacturers, and of different merchants, were so different, that they required different representatives. The proper representative for Leeds, for instance, would not do for Birmingham, and the gentlemen who might be well acquainted with the interests of the cotton, might know nothing of the interests of the woollen, manufacturers. Virtual representation might be very good in theory, but, in the present state of the country, it was necessary that the different commercial interests should have special representatives.Sir G. Philips
 said, that, if the hon. gentleman thought that, with a reduced navy, they could maintain the country against the other powers of Europe, they might, discarding all gratitude for past services cut down the estimates to their notions of economy. As to the promotions, did they suppose that age would not affect naval^ men, as it did all others? Young men must be brought forward; otherwise, if a war took place to-morrow, the navy would be found filled with old men, unfit for the toils and perils of the service. It was easy for gentlemen, who had lived during the war in comfort and composure, while the navy were defending them from invasion, to talk slightingly of the debt of gratitude they owed to that service; but let them not, by mistaken reductions, impair its efficiency, when it would again become necessary to them.Admiral Evans
 said, that the question they were called upon to decide was not between Birmingham and Bassetlaw, but whether they were then to set a precedent of an entirely popular representation. They had already given a pledge to that effect in the case of Penryn; and if they did so in a second instance, they would be bound
by that precedent [cheers]. He knew the meaning of those cheers; but he desired the House to look to the inferences which would be drawn, next year, by those gentlemen who had thus cheered, and see whether they would not deduce a strong argument from this precedent. The hon. member who spoke last had talked of checks by the three estates upon each other; and he believed it was essential that checks should exist, in a constitutional government, in every branch of those estates. They were told not to look to theories or to forms; and if they did look merely to facts, he asked, were there not sufficient checks, and was not each interest, whether East India or West India, Protestant or Catholic, represented in that House? He was anxious that each should have its fair turn; and, looking to the hundred in which East Retford was situated, if numbers were a guarantee for purity of election, it might be found, where the voters were from one to two thousand, and he was sure that when the motion of the hon. member for Hertfordshire was looked to, it would at once be seen how unfounded were the rumours that the change proposed was only intended to increase the power of the aristocracy.Mr. L. Foster
814l.l. remarked, that, if the House was at all disposed to deal with the estimates as they ought, this vote would attract its attention. When he stated that the year before the last French war, the whole charge of every sort for naval half-pay was 172,900814l.l.Mr. Hume
 thought that the hon. gentleman ought to move for the postponement of the preamble.Dr. Phillimore
 said, he was bound to declare that, although he might have argued erroneously, he had understood his right hon. friend distinctly to state, that if there were but one borough to deal with, he would vote for the transfer of the elective franchise to a great town. In his opinion, the House ought, without any reference to the course that might be pursued by the other House, to send up to that House bills, alternately transferring the elective franchise to a borough and to a great town. It was now pretty well understood, that the Penryn bill was not expected to be returned to that House; and if, on the disfranchisement of East Retford, the franchise was not transferred to a populous place, the country would conclude that the House had given to the popular interest the weaker case, Penryn, and reserved the stronger, East Retford, for the purpose of serving another interest. On these grounds he should vote for the original question.Mr. Wynn
808 said, that, as he had felt it his duty in the last session to oppose this bill, so should he now express his regret at the course about to be taken with respect to it by his right hon. friend. His right hon. friend thought that the cases of Penryn and East Retford should be dealt with on grounds of expediency. Now, that was not the course he would pursue, as he would deal with it according to the dictates of justice. He said now, as he had said last session, that he did not think the House justified in taking away the franchise of Penryn; for, after inquiry, there were found one hundred and fifty electors uncontaminated, and that was the reason
808Mr. S. Bourne
778777776775 on rising to put the questions of which he had given notice, respecting the State of our Relations with Foreign Powers, observed, that, upon several preceding occasions, he had felt it his duty to address questions to his majesty's government on the subject of our foreign transactions. In doing so he was not influenced by any wish to embarrass the government, to invite them to any premature disclosure, or to express any opinion of disapprobation against the motives or conduct of that government. On the contrary, he might once for all say, that so far from entertaining any views unfriendly to the present administration, he considered them, without reference to the circumstances which attended their appointment, as possessing more power to do good, and less likelihood to be counteracted in the endeavours to do so, than any other govern-
778777776775Sir Robert Wilson
 said, that although the hon. member for Blechingly had spoken of the hand-bill of Mr. Gally Knight, he well knew that the freeholders had more power in returning the members than the noblemen. As it was not known to the House from any authority, that the franchise of Penryn was to be transferred, the fact ought not to influence the debate. He denied that any expectations had been created in Birmingham; as the proposition, when put, was negatived without a division.Mr. Lumley
809 said, he rose to express his concurrence with what had fallen from his right hon. friend who had just sat down. If any thing could have induced the House to come to a compromise upon this subject, it was from the idea that the House of Lords would have given their consent to the bill which had been sent up to them. That, however, had not been done, and no one could say that the compromise had been fairly kept. He recollected that the Secretary for the Colonies (Mr. Huskisson) had said, that if there were only one case before the House, he would have no hesitation in transferring the franchise, in this instance, to Birmingham. He therefore claimed the vote of the Secretary for the Colonies; and he claimed it on the very grounds on which his right hon. colleague had rested the defence of his own consistency. The Secretary of State for the Home Department had deprecated the idea of establishing any uniform precedent one way or the other: yet if the mode now proposed were followed, that would establish the general precedent for transfer to the hundred; for all that had been transferred were disposed of in that way. Every one of those cases were wrong in principle;
809Lord Sandon
823 said, that having intimated to the hon. gentleman, that it was not his intention to oppose the introduction of the bill, he should not have said a word on the present occasion, had he not been informed that it was the determination of some gentlemen, who were opposed to any change in the Usury-laws, to enter that evening into a discussion of their general policy. Now, with all respect to those gentlemen, he would advise them to postpone the discussion until they had the measure in a distinct and substantive shape before them. He thought that it was impossible for any man who had attended to the speech of the hon. member, to shut his eyes against the great inconveniences which resulted from the Usury-laws. It was impossible to hear of commercial men being innocently subjected to the payment of enormous penalties, without feeling that the hon. member had made out a case, which rendered it imperative on the House to consider whether it could not devise some amendment for so defective a state of law. For these reasons, he should offer no opposition to the motion. In making that declaration, he reserved to himself the
823The Chancellor of the Exchequer
824 said, he was ready to agree to the mitigation of the Usury-laws, provided that mitigation did not amount to an actual repeal of the laws themselves. It appeared to him to be quite impossible to pass a bill like the present, without affecting the landed interest most materially. Mortgages must be affected by the change which would take place in the value of money on the repeal of those laws. The impression made on his mind by a perusal of the evidence taken before the committee in 1818, was unfavourable to the repeal of the Usury-laws, and was principally created by the evidence of Mr. Preston; no mean authority on such a subject. If there had been no Usury-laws, he believed that, during the panic of 1825, some individuals might have escaped from the ruin in which it involved them; but he likewise believed that more persons would have been ingulfed in it, who, owing to the existence of the Usury-laws, were saved from it by the benevolence of their friends. Those kind-hearted persons knew
824Sir R. Heron
maximum condemned the Usury-laws. They took money out of the pocket of the borrower, without putting it into that of the lender; the only person who was benefitted by them was the inferior description of attornies and agents. He wished the government would deal fairly between the landed and commercial interests on this question. The landowner was unrestricted as to price in every article which he produced. If the poor were starving, and corn selling at a guinea a bushel, the government would not pass a law to prevent the agriculturist from selling corn at that price. He did not see how they could continue the present Usury-laws, if they acted consistently, without imposing a maximumMr. Martin
 said, he had regularly opposed the bill of a learned serjeant on this subject, because it went to the total repeal of these laws, which he conceived would create a perfect revolution in pecuniary matters. But he was inclined to support the present bill; because, without going so far as the learned Serjeant's, it was calculated to correct most of the evils of the present system.Mr. Cripps
825 was convinced, that of all classes of the community the landed interest was that which suffered most from the present Usury-laws. A landholder, if he wanted money, could not procure it when the funds paid an interest above five per cent. He was, therefore, obliged to borrow it at a higher rate than the legal
825Sir J. Sebright
826ad libitum said, that all the former bills which had been introduced upon this subject went to the total repeal of all restrictions upon the interest of money. They were founded on the theoretical principle, that, as all other articles of trade found their own level, so too would money; and thence it was inferred, that it was unwise and impolitic to fix any certain standard of interest. He had studied this subject with great attention, and was deeply impressed with the conviction, that great oppression and injustice would arise from the repeal of the Usury-laws, and that a right to take interest upon money 826ad libitumThe Attorney-general
 begged to state that he never did say any such thing. What he did say was simply, that at a particular period of great commercial distress, the friends of the sufferers had come forward to save them from the misfortunes consequent upon that period of distress, but that if the Usury-laws had been repealed, those persons would have been left to their own resources.Sir R. Heron
828 said, he had always voted for a repeal of these laws, and would support this measure, though it did not go to the full extent of former motions for a similar purpose. He hoped the middle course taken would conciliate the opponents of this measure, and therefore effect some practicable good. Indeed, he thought the proposed alteration preferable to the previous application for a repeal. If he understood his hon. friend right, he meant to retain the legal standard of five per cent interest, but to repeal the obnoxious and severe penalties, of leaving
828Mr. Baring
 hoped, that the people of Scotland, which was more a debtor country than England, would have ample opportunity of knowing the nature of the intended change.Mr. Maxwell
maximum834l.l.l.833832l. said, it would not be necessary for him to enter into an explanation of that part of the hon. gentleman's speech in which he had stated that the pension list amounted to upwards of 6,000,000maximum834l.l.l.833832l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
838maximum837836maximuml. said, that if he could accede to the proposition, that parliament had it in its power to control the expenditure of the pension list in the way it thought fit, he might be disposed to agree to the motion. Parliament had, however, taken the matter out of its own hands; and, by declaring that 95,000838maximum837836maximuml.Mr. Secretary Huskisson
l.l. said, the argument of the right hon. gentleman, if good for any thing, went to this—that the moment the civil list was settled, so it should remain, unless the monarch was obliged to come to parliament for relief. It was not, it seemed, to be inquired into, though the situation of the country rendered such an inquiry indispensable. Now, if the civil list had been fixed at 95,000l.l.Dr. Lushington
844 said that every argument that had been urged in favour of the bill was applicable in opposition to the hon. gentleman's amendment. The proposition would, if adopted, expose the public to a danger which it was not desirable they should incur. Although friendly to the principles of free trade, he felt that government would have shown an incorrect sense of their duty, if they had ventured, under the present circumstances, to propose so low a reduction of the duties. The question was not, whether the proposed system was the best possible system of Corn-laws for the country, under any circumstances in which it might be placed; but the hon.
844Mr. F. Lewis
 proceeded to propose the amendment of which he had given notice. He was anxious to impress on the minds of the committee the necessity of making a change in the list of places, where the average prices of British corn were to be taken. He strongly objected to the introduction of London into the list, because he was satisfied that it was not a place where the average prices of British corn could be fairly taken. The regulations respecting corn were formerly for the benefit of the consumer; they were now for the protection of the grower. But London was the worst place for the purpose of taking a fair average, because the large quantities of foreign corn which were sold here, and other circumstances, all had a tendency to produce an artificial state of things, as well as a great and unnatural fluctuation of prices. The influence of this was also felt, directly, or indirectly, in all the neighbouring counties. In his opinion, a change ought to be made in the mode of taking the averages. He moved, therefore, "That the word 'London' be struck out of the list of places where the average prices of British corn were to be taken."Mr. Portman
d.s.845 said, it would be impossible to make so important an alteration, without changing the character of the measure. The hon. gentleman had, however, introduced some novelty into his argument; for they were now, it seemed,
d.s.845Mr. F. Lewis
bona fide maintained that the averages did not give the true price of grain in bona fideMr. Curteis
s.s. supported the amendment, and contended that the farmer never got the prices mentioned in the Gazette. He knew instances where corn was bought at 40s.s.Colonel Sibthorpe
 contended, that it was necessary to omit London in the averages, in consequence of the tricks constantly practised there, by which it appeared that the farmer got a much larger price than he really ever obtained. If the protecting duty was considered too high, it would be much better to reduce it than to retain this fallacious mode of settling the averages.Mr. Benett
846 said, that neither corn
846Mr. F. Lewis
847 said, he felt himself placed in a most difficult and disagreeable situation, by something that had occurred since the last time of his discharging his duty in the House. He referred to "an Account of certain Proceedings stated to have taken place on the bringing-up of the Report of the Committee on the Bill now under consideration." That account had taken a more authentic form than usual, and imputed to those who voted in the minority, on the grant to the family of the late Mr. Canning motives of a very improper nature. It was remarkable that the Report did not appear on the day after the proceedings, but on a subsequent one. In the account alluded to, the hon. member for Limerick was represented to have imputed to the opponents of the grants motives of a very singular nature, and to allege, that they must be influenced either by a foolish idea of saving money, or by the personal feelings of the worst kind towards the memory of Mr. Canning. He knew not to which of these two classes he might be thought to belong by the hon. member, but contented himself with saying, that as an humble individual he had given his vote on that occasion with a clear conscience, and from upright motives—motives which he considered as honourable and defensible, as any that had ever influenced a vote in that House. God forbid he should follow the example that had been set, or attribute improper motives to any man for the observations alluded to; but if he could stoop to retaliation, perhaps those motives might be questioned. He trusted he might say deliberately then, that in reference to the character of that great and distinguished man (Mr. Canning), he should be the last person who would speak with any slight or disrespect whatever. When an attack had been made, and imputations thrown out relative to the motives by which he had been influenced in giving the vote which he did upon the subject in question—when he, in common with others, was taunted for the
847Sir R. Fergusson
 expressed his cordial assent to the measure.Mr. Lennard
 regretted that he felt it his duty to vote for the motion. He regretted it, because he had every wish to support the present government, who were placed in a situation of difficulty, both with respect to foreign and to domestic affairs, to which few administrations had ever been exposed. But he could see no reason why the civil list of this country, as well as the civil lists of Ireland and Scotland should not be laid before the House. He was sure it would disclose nothing discreditable to his majesty or his advisers; and therefore there could be no reason for withholding it. The sum was given to his majesty for the purpose of rewarding meritorious servants; and the public should be satisfied that such services had been rewarded.Mr. Fergusson
 said, he merely stated, as a general proposition, that when personal motives were attributed to an opponent, it would provoke retaliation.Sir R. Fergusson
 expressed a hope that as the party interested in the discussion on a former evening had now been heard, the irregular conversation would be permitted to drop. Further discussion would only engender feelings ill suited to the consideration of a question of that nature. For his own part, he would repeat, that he cordially concurred in the vote.Mr. Secretary Peel
 thought that this vote did not pledge the House to approve of any part of Mr. Canning's political life. It was merely intended as a remuneration to his family for the injury done to his and to their private fortune during a long course of public service. He had opposed Mr. Canning during the last years of his life, and he should probably be in opposition to him were he now alive; but he had never allowed private feelings to enter into his opposition [hear, hear]. He opposed Mr. Canning as a politician, and not as a father or a husband, and he would as soon refuse to give him credit for his private virtues, as he would oppose this vote on account of any errors committed by him in his political life.Lord Ashley
842l.l.841 rose amidst
842l.l.841Mr. Sugden
 by no means intended that what he was doing at present should preclude him from going further: but he was anxious not to embark in too wide a field at once: for he was sure that whatever was done in haste would be done imperfectly.Mr. Sugden
 considered the proposition of the hon. mover worse than an open avowal that his design was a repeal of the Usury-laws. What was that proposition? To leave five per cent still the legal standard of interest, but to abolish all the securities and penalties against those who violated the law. His opinion was, simply, that the law should either be repealed or enforced; but the hon. mover would not compel a dishonest man, who agreed to pay twelve per cent for the use of money, to perform his contract; he would allow this fraudulent party to go into a court of law, and cut down the creditor's demand to the legal standard. This was worse than the total repeal of all regulations on the subject. He wished the hon. gentleman would leave this question in the hands of government, who would digest a plan which might be produced next session, and would probably call forth the approbation of all parties. He would not consent to the repeal of the Usury-laws; as he was afraid it would be productive of great mischief both to the commercial and to the landed interest.Mr. Sugden
854 said, that the observations of the hon. member for Limerick might excuse, if they did not call for, a few observations from him. He had given one vote on the question of the proposed grant. That vote was one of the most painful he had ever given in that House. For his part, he not only fully recognized the proposition that the dead ought to be treated with respect and reverence, but he would extend it even to the absent. He must, however, say, that the hon. member for Limerick had lost sight of that generous principle when he indulged in remarks on two absent members, which could not fail to be most painful to them if reported to their ears. With respect to the noble marquis (Chandos) who had been alluded to, he could state, that he was engaged on public business in the county to which he belonged. Had that circumstance been known to the hon. member for Limerick, he probably would have postponed some of the observations he had made. After all the explanations which the hon. member had offered, he
854Mr. G. Bankes
850849848 said, he was, he believed, the member to whom the hon. gentleman alluded. In the few observations he should make to the House, it was unnecessary for him to state that he discharged every personal feeling, and meant no disrespect to the hon. member for Limerick. His complaint was, that in the character of a member of parliament lie had been subjected to imputations which he denied. In the independent discharge of his duty in that House, he had never assigned, undue motives to others, nor acted from improper motives himself. If there was any imputed impropriety in his vote of Wednesday, he was ready to vindicate it; but he preferred that it should pass in silence. He had never given a vote which he was afraid to vindicate; and if necessary, no motives of delicacy towards any man should prevent him from
850849848Mr. Legh Keck
855 lamented, that any personal feelings should be mingled with this question. It had been his fate to have opposed Mr. Canning on a variety of questions, and particularly on that of parliamentary reform, but nevertheless he thought this small tribute was due to the memory of that lamented statesman; nor did he
855Lord Nugent
 could not see how the real difficulties would be met by the proposed arrangement of the hon. member; he was friendly to the motion, but would reserve his opinion until the bill was introduced.Mr. Bright
 supported the motion, but trusted that the amendments projected by his learned friend went further than the mere measure before the House.Mr. H. Twiss
l. said, he should resist the motion. This sum of 95,000l.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that if he had not, on a recent occasion, declared his intention to oppose the repeal of the Usury-laws, he would not—finding that the proposal of the hon. gentleman was so different from what he had expected—have thought it necessary to say anything. He would give the hon. gentleman's proposal a fair and deliberate consideration, and as it did not touch upon that part of the subject which he had feared it would, he should support it if he could. At the same time, he considered himself perfectly free. The subject was surrounded with difficulties. He was decidedly opposed to the repeal of that part of the laws which applied to loans of money upon mortgages. The cases stated by the hon. member were extreme, and should be regarded as exceptions, rather than examples; but still, if that part of the laws to which he had alluded was preserved, he saw no objection to the proposal of the hon. mover.Mr. Calcraft
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.831l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.830l.l. rose to call the attention of the House to the subject "of Pensions Payable out of the Civil List." He knew it was considered by common consent in that House, that the civil list when once settled, was not to be meddled with, until they were called upon, at the conclusion of one reign, to consider a new arrangement for another. But he had never concurred in that principle; because he found, that there never was any hesitation on the part of ministers to ask for the payment of the debts of the civil list, when they had accrued to a great amount. The House, he thought, had an equal right to ask, what was passing in the civil list. But though the House had, he thought, a right to interfere, he intended only to ask for an account of the pensions payable out of the civil list, in order that they might see whether the acts of parliament for the regulation of that list had been complied with, and whether there were not the means of providing for cases such as that which had lately occurred; as he thought that this was the source from which any allowance of this kind should proceed, instead of calling on the House for additional grants, in the present over-burthened state of the finances. In the act of 1782, called Mr. Burke's act, there was an express provision, in the 17th clause, that the pension list, which was then very large, should be put under the regulation that only. 1,200l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.831l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.830l.l.Mr. Hume
839l.l.l. said, with respect to the argument of the chancellor of the Exchequer, that the House should not interfere with the civil list, he would reply, that parliament did interfere several times during the last reign. In the first year of George 3rd the civil list was settled at 800,000839l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 rose amidst cries of "Oh !" and declared that he would take the sense of the House on the next stage of the bill.Mr. Hume
843 was grateful even for the little good promised by this bill; but it would be necessary to go a great deal further. Upon the subject of the contempts of court, no complaint could fairly
843Mr. M. A. Taylor
822821l.l.l.820l.l.l.l.l.819l.l.l.l.818817 in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Usury Laws, said that, in laying his proposition before the House, he did not intend to go fully into the general question; but, as there were many hon. gentlemen now in the House who were not members when the subject was last discussed, he felt it his duty to make a few general observations. He much regretted that the task of bringing the question before the House had not fallen to the lot of an individual more competent than himself; but when he considered the crimes and evils which those laws produced, he was anxious that some course should be adopted to mitigate their severity. Honourable members were aware that, in the year 1818, when Mr. Serjeant Onslow brought forward a similar bill, a committee was appointed for the purpose of examining into these laws; and to the evidence taken before that committee he should have occasion to refer. He much wished that his majesty's ministers had redeemed their pledge of bringing forward some measure for amending the state of
822821l.l.l.820l.l.l.l.l.819l.l.l.l.818817Mr. Poulett Thompson,
 said, he had hesitated offering himself to the House for a few moments, because he understood that there was another charge to be brought against him, which he should show arose from misapprehension, and which he regretted. He therefore wished to reserve himself until he had heard what that other charge was.Mr. Spring Rice
853852851 thanked the hon. member for the manner in which he had made his statement, and should, he hoped, satisfactorily reply to his observations. And first, he must express his regret, that any thing he might have said should have been mixed up with a question of this delicacy and personal interest. He wished that any hon. gentleman, having any objection to make to him, had made it to himself alone, without mixing it up with the discussion of such a question as this. If there had been any blame in the affair, it should rest exclusively and entirely on him, and not attach to the question before the House. There might be some irregularity in the proceedings which had taken place on this subject; but he rejoiced, that the hon. gentleman had read the passage of which he complained, because he therein knew the full amount of the charge against him. He thought he should be borne out by the testimony of members on both sides of the House, when he said, that he had endeavoured, upon all occasions, even though engaged in questions which called forth asperity, to avoid any step which could hurt any individual, much more any class of individuals in that House. The House would allow him to recall to it the circumstances of this case. It so happened, that on that night a noble lord had stated, that his objection to the vote did not arise in any degree from economical principles, but specifically from his dislike to the principles of Mr. Canning. He (Mr. S. Rice) then separated the opposition into two classes, and stated, that an objection might be made to the vote on the ground of economy; or it might be objected to upon constitutional grounds. Many might object to the precedent, without objecting to the end of the grant or to the policy of Mr. Canning. These reasons he considered to form a specific ground of objection, distinct from others. This was not imputing motives, but distinguishing the classes of opposition; that of the noble lord being connected with the personal character of Mr. Canning. There had not been a single word read by the hon.
853852851Mr. Spring Rice
 said, he had been opposed to Mr. Canning on many occasions, but he considered that his public conduct during the two last years of his life was a legitimate ground for supporting the vote, even on the part of those who had previously opposed his measures. It was degrading to the character of the House to suffer personal feelings to interfere with an act of public justice. He agreed with his noble friend that it would tend greatly to raise the character of public men, and induce them to apply their energies to the service of their country, if they knew that their families would be provided for by the public generosity.Mr. W. Smith
 contended, that, even with his explanation, the hon. baronet had only shifted the burthen; for it was perfectly evident that there was both loss and risk in the transaction. He could not see that the slightest degree of injury would result from the modification or repeal of these laws. It was beyond dispute, that the man in extreme distress must get money at whatever rate he could.Mr. W. Smith
 thought that, if the bill only went as far as the Attorney-general was disposed to give it his sanction, it might as well not go on at all. An hon. baronet had alluded to a case in which, at a period when the difficulty of raising money was extreme, the friends of the individuals in distress had come forward to their relief, to prevent them from being compelled to accede to the terms of the usurer. But he would ask the hon. baronet, did he not consider that there was still in this case a loss and risk? There was a loss and risk to the friends of the parties.Mr. W. Smith
827 said, he was anxious for the repeal or modification of the Usury-laws. The former he should prefer, and he hoped his hon. friend would not get into greater difficulties than those he wished to avoid, by consenting to take a qualified course. From a twenty years knowledge of extensive commercial transactions, he could speak to the injurious tendency of these laws. They operated most injuriously both upon the commercial and landed interests. Why not leave money, which was the very essence of trade, like any other commodity, to be regulated by the necessities of the borrower and lender respectively? Each, could bargain accord-
827Mr. Robinson
835 said, he had listened in vain for any thing like a reason against the motion of his hon. friend. All that his hon. friend desired was, to know to whom pensions had been granted. The right hon. gentleman said, it was not desirable to bring the Crown into unnecessary con-
835Lord Althorp
 said, he should have preferred an entire repeal of the Usury-laws to the measure now proposed; he nevertheless thought it would be a great improvement upon the old law. He could not agree with the learned gentleman, that it would favour dishonest at the expense of honest men, but the reverse.Lord Althorp
l. said, he never heard a move extraordinary speech than that which had been made by the last hon. member. He said, that it was unconstitutional to inquire into the civil lists, and yet he had admitted, that the king might come down to that House, and ask for an increase of those lists. He would contend, that it was highly constitutional for them to see that this sum was properly disposed of. Responsibility was a complete joke if this information were refused. The hon. member told them, that they might apply for this information if they could show a case of abuse. What! show a case of abuse without the information, by means of which alone they could ascertain whether abuse existed? He had been told, on a former occasion, that he had displayed constitutional ignorance in saying that they ought to ascertain the amount of their income before they settled what their expenditure should be: but he still held the same doctrine; and the expenditure of five only of these 95,000l.Lord Howick
856 said, he highly disapproved of the clause which gave county magistrates a concurrent jurisdiction with the magistrates in cities and boroughs,
856Mr. Heathcote
 said, that the clauses alluded to, involved the whole principle of the bill. The hon. member for Oxford, by attempting too much, would be likely to fail altogether. Abuses might have crept into the licensing system; but that was no reason why the magistracy, as a body, should be aspersed. With respect to the clause which required the concurrent jurisdiction of county magistrates, no compulsory attendance was to be enforced by the bill. Nor did his hon. friend appear to consider the jealousies and rivalries that an occasional co-operation like this would most probably produce. To infer that all connected with public-houses were necessarily corrupt, was a harsh and unwarrantable conclusion; yet the bill conveyed this imputation. It would place county magistrates in a most embarrassing situation; as they would naturally feel a delicacy at coming into a corporate town, where they had not exercised any previous jurisdiction.Mr. Bernal
 was of opinion, that no benefit could arise from an increase of public houses. They tended to promote vice of every description, and encouraged a wasteful expenditure of money amongst the poor. He had had in his employment a hundred labourers for several years, and he seldom knew of any drunkenness among-them, in consequence of the neighbourhood being almost free from public houses.Sir R. Heron
 considered the bill an infringement on chartered rights, and introduced magistrates where they hitherto had had no jurisdiction.Mr. Jones
858l.857 wished to state the evils resulting from the present system. He would not put into the hands of any individuals a power affecting the price of
858l.857Mr. Slaney
 considered the clause in the bill respecting the concurrent jurisdiction of county magistrates with corporate magistrates so objectionable, that he would rather the measure should be lost, than that this clause should form a part of it.Mr. G. Bankes
 also opposed the clause.Lord Sandon
 thought the clause the best part of the bill. He was for opening the jurisdiction in such cases, as well as for taking oft" all restrictions on the trade in beer. In other countries, no injury resulted from allowing the sale of wine to be unrestricted.Mr. Hume
, as he was aware of the evils of the present licensing system, would support the bill.Mr. C. Wood
 wished the bill success generally, although this clause certainly went to deprive corporators of their chartered rights. If this were not withdrawn, he should certainly oppose the bill.Mr. Calcraft
 considered the clause of such value to the public, that if passed as a separate act, it would be a greater boon than all the rest of the bill.Sir J. Sebright
 considered the public owed a debt of gratitude to the hon. member for Oxford. Although the general principal of throwing open trade was good, it should however be controlled by forethought and caution, as to the practically injurious effects likely to follow. If, as a matter of police, it was necessary to exert this control, it was the first duty of the legislature to see that it should not be liable to abuse. The power of the magistrates in regard to licensing was not a corporate right, or derived from charter, but from acts of parliament. He hoped the House would not throw out the bill, as the period had not arrived for considering the clauses separately.Mr. Secretary Peel
 concurred in the sentiments of the hon. member for Oxford, and j supported the bill.Sir. J. Graham
859 said, that as the bill was
859Mr. Curteis
 said, it was his original intention to have proposed the doing away with the licensing system altogether; but he had received such accounts from those best acquainted with the mischiefs to which it would probably lead, that he was induced to alter his course. As to the particular clause, he had no objection to postpone it to the committee.Mr. Estcourt
 thought the clause calculated to lower the magistrates in the eyes of the people.Lord Belgrave
 thought it would be better to do away altogether with the jurisdiction of the corporate magistrates, than to take from them the respect which they ought to possess.Mr. Baring
864863862861860, in rising to present a petition from the miners of Holy well Hold, and other districts in Flintshire, said — the petitioners complain, and with reason, of the reduction in the duty on foreign Lead Ore, and of the abolition of One Pound Notes. I understood that some proposition, for again advancing the duty on foreign lead ore, was intended to be brought forward; but, with respect to the abolition of the small-note circulation, I shall take the opportunity of expressing my surprise that government has not thought it expedient or necessary to explain to the House the ground of their proceedings on that subject. They have, indeed, stated what their intention is, but have given no explanation of the reasons why they propose to persevere; the measure in question is not one which, originating for the first time in 1816, is now to be expected to be carried into effect as a matter of course: their whole course of proceedings has led to a contrary conclusion. They, in 1819, adopted a measure, the effect of which was to extinguish the circulation of one-pound notes; but, in 1822, another was passed to continue their existence. In 1826, government again resolved on their abolition; but, of this
864863862861860Mr. Attwood
l.l. protested against the proceeding adopted by the hon. member. He must say, that on a petition, the principal prayer of which was, that the House would take into consideration the state of the trade in Lead Ore, the introduction of the topics on which the hon. gentleman had addressed the House was a little out of order. He knew that the state of the currency, the increase of crime, and other important topics, might be incidentally introduced into such a discussion; but when he had received no notice of the discussion, and when others who might wish to take part in it were absent, he put it to the candour of the hon. member, whether it ought not to be discontinued. To shew the unfairness of the views taken by the hon. member, he would just refer to one statement, in which he had asserted that England and Scotland were in precisely the same situation with respect to the circulation of small notes. In making that statement, did the hon. member think it fair to hide from the House the important fact, that, for the last century Scotland had possessed a circulation of notes under 5l.l.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, the object of the bill which the chancellor of the Exchequer proposed to introduce, was simply to prevent the Scotch paper money from coming into England after such a circulation had been declared disadvantageous for this country. He acknowledged the ability and extensive information of his hon. friend and colleague, but on this occasion he believed he was entirely wrong when he appeared to wish them to return to a depreciated currency, which, instead of relieving the difficulties of the country, would materially increase them. To what was much of the present distress of the country to be attributed, but to the tampering with the currency? And if any thing that had been done was good, as an argument on this subject, it was, that they should avoid that error in future. He trusted that we should persevere in the system which was now laid down; the strict adherence to which would best provide for our security.Mr. Baring
 said, he had postponed the discussion of his bill at the request of many gentlemen who could not attend that day, and from no fear that he should not be able to justify its necessity to the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought, that under such circumstances, the present discussion was misplaced.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, that the government had not given up the measure with respect to Scotland from caprice, but because they had been satisfied by evidence, that the present currency of Scotland was the most advantageous for that country, and they had therefore allowed her to follow her own course of prosperity in her own way.Mr. Dundas
867 observed, in explanation, that if the right hon. Secretary had attended to the former part of what he had said, he would have seen that the character of the petition was accurately described; the complaint was of injury from two causes, the introduction of foreign lead ore, and the abolition of small notes. He had used no argument which did not strictly bear on the petition. With respect to the practice of debates on petitions, he observed that it was generally deprecated by one party, and approved by another; but it was surely advantageous to discuss frequently, and on various occasions, questions of difficulty and importance. The right hon. Secretary had been mistaken, in imputing to him the allegation that Scotland and England stood on the same footing with respect to the circulation of small notes. His statement was, that the right hon. gentleman's colleagues, when they brought in the bill of 1826 for abolishing small notes in England, supported that measure by reasons applicable in the main to Scotland and Ireland, as well as to England; and he had pointed out the inconsistency, therefore, with which they were now chargeable in proposing, without explanation, to carry their measure into effect in the latter part of the empire, and not in the former. His hon. friend and colleague, Mr. Baring, had charged him with exaggeration, in his estimate of the mischiefs arising from these measures relative to the currency. Now the degree of mischief thus occasioned must be estimated from the extent of difference effected in the value of money. He (Mr. Attwood) had taken
867Mr. Attwood
868 added, that his hon. colleague had observed, that his estimate was overcharged, not in the extent he ascribed to the alterations in the value of money, but in the evils he ascribed to the abolishing one-pound notes. But all he had said on this head was, that this abolition would occasion some degree of general pressure and difficulty extending to all the productive classes; but what degree, he neither himself pretended, nor could any man pretend, to estimate. It was doubtful how far it would go. His hon. friend admitted that the value of money had been altered from twenty-five to perhaps fifty per cent. That alteration had been effected in the legal money of the country, by the act of the government secretly, without its being known that such an operation was in progress; and if any man would consider what the effect of such a measure must, be, in a country like this, operating on all its public and private pecuniary engagements, altering to that extent, all monied contracts, he would be convinced, that it would be difficult to make any statements of the effects of such measure which could be considered as exaggerated. It was from the disorder thus occasioned,
868Mr. Attwood
l.l.l.l.l.l.874l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1.873l.l. said, he had given notice of his intention to introduce two bills, bearing upon the practical domestic economy of the country. The first measure went to abolish what were called Church Briefs, for raising money in cases of calamities by fire, and for the raising of money for the building or repairing of churches or chapels. In the first place, he conceived that the existence of insurance offices dispensed with the necessity of making collections in this way, in cases of loss by fire; and, besides, to any one who attended the celebration of divine service, it must appear, to say the least of it, very indecorous to introduce into the middle of it a subject so totally unconnected with it. A return had been called for last session, to show the enormous expense attendant upon this mode of collection, and the disproportion between the loss sustained, and the amount of money collected. All that appeared on those returns combined to show the policy of abolishing- this system. He would therefore propose the total abolition of the system of raising money in cases of loss by fire by means of church briefs. He held in his hand an account of all the church briefs which had been issued since the 15th of May, 1819. He would select one or two instances to show the smallness of the sum paid to the party by whom the loss had been sustained, in consequence of the immense expense incurred, for the patent, for printing notices, and for the salaries paid to officers for distributing them, and collecting the subscriptions. Under the first brief which he should select, the loss sustained by the party amounted to 362l.l.l.l.l.l.874l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1.873l.l.Mr. Secretary Peel
l.l.l. said, that briefs for the last fifty years had been farmed by contractors, and that was the reason why they produced only 300l.l.l.Alderman Wood
876l., in reply, said, that it was his intention to repeal the act of Anne altogether. He thought the worthy alderman must be misinformed as to the farming of the briefs; for any one guilty of that offence was liable to a penalty of 500876l.Mr. Secretary Peel
878l.877s., said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill, the object of which was the more speedy Recovery of Small Debts. Speaking of the system which prevailed in the country generally, he believed it would fee found better, in most instances, to abandon any claim which an individual might have for a certain sum, than to attempt to recover; it, as the law now stood. The expense of proceeding in the county courts was so I enormous, and their jurisdiction so confined, that in many cases, the party seeking redress there was actuated by feelings of pique and resentment, rather than by any; hope of recovering his debt. The attention of the House had been repeatedly called to this subject, and great difficulty had been experienced in attempting to devise a remedy for the present defective state of the law. A noble lord (Althorp) had: given much consideration to the subject, and several bills had been introduced by him. Those measures had not met with the approbation of the House, and it was at the desire of that noble lord, in the course of last session, that he (Mr. Peel) had undertaken to introduce a bill. The first bill brought in, proposed to enable the lord lieutenants of counties to appoint assessors, who were to receive considerable salaries, and a separate court was to be established in those towns where the ordinary courts were on a small scale.; Several objections were urged against this plan, and the impropriety of placing the appointment of assessor in the hands of the lord lieutenant was very justly pointed out. By the subsequent bill, the appointment was left with the Crown. It was there provided, that assessors should preside in the county courts, and they were; to look to the Crown for their salary. Again, it was proposed, that the commissioners appointed to discharge the duties connected with the Insolvent Debtors Court should adjudicate in cases of small debts, and should, for that purpose, make circuits through the country. To these measures objections were also taken, and they were abandoned. He should propose to adopt in each county the ancient institution of the county court, and to extend its jurisdiction from debts of 40878l.877s.,Mr. Secretary Peel
 highly approved of the motion. The mode of raising- money by church briefs was inadequate, as the expense often exceeded the nett amount received. The country was much indebted to the right hon. gentleman for his proposition to incorporate a society, most excellent in its principle, and most beneficial in its effects.Dr. Lushington
l.s.l.879 expressed his cordial concurrence in the policy of the bill. The
l.s.l.879Alderman Wood
l.l.l.l. said, that his object was, to enable the creditor to allege his debt by the simplest and most unexpensive process. For instance, instead of a cumbrous declaration, the form proposed in the bill was—"A B complains of C D. that he owes him 10l.l.l.l.Mr. Secretary Peel
l.s.d.s. said, that, as, on a former occasion, he had treated this subject at considerable length, he would not detain the House many minutes now. He had shown the consequence of the abuses of that branch of the Poor-laws which related to the employment and relief of able-bodied persons: and he thought it would be conceded to him, that those abuses ought to be removed. He would now merely state, that these abuses were different in different parts of the country, though the laws were, of course, the same. In the southern counties these abuses prevailed, and the peasantry were poor and degraded: in the northern counties there were no such abuses, and they were well paid and happy. They must also recollect the burthens which agriculture was subject to, in consequence of these abuses. In the county of Cumberland, where these abuses did not prevail, the poor-rates were only 1l.s.d.s.Mr. Slaney
884 said, that the grounds upon which the vote ought to be supported, were grounds upon which he had hoped a difference of opinion scarcely could arise; and most sincerely had he been gratified by the declaration of the right hon. baronet who had recently spoken, that he would give his support to the grant, however to the man he might have been opposed. For himself, he had entertained no difference of opinion, either as to the foreign or the internal policy of the country, from Mr. Canning; and if he forbore from resting the present motion upon the merits of that policy, it was because he wished to found it upon a principle which the House could hardly fail to be unanimous in admitting. He wished to claim the vote as a meed of honour due, apart from the question of persons, to the services of an illustrious public man, whose disinterested regardlessness of all pecuniary considerations Had left his family unprovided with
884Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, he should, on constitutional grounds, give his cordial vote in favour of the grant.Mr. Batley
897 said, he would state in a few words, the grounds on which he should give his vote. He could not but
897Mr. F. P. Cust
 supported the vote, on the ground of the public services of Mr. Canning, and thought that ministers were entitled to thanks for having introduced it.Mr. J. Maxwell
 said, he entertained, for the memory of the illustrious statesman, the highest possible respect, and felt bound to give to the motion his cordial support.Mr. Stewart
 hoped the House would not imagine that, in the vote which he should feel himself conscientiously bound to give on the present question, he was influenced by personal motives. He must oppose the motion, but that opposition was founded solely on constitutional grounds. He for many reasons, however, wished his hon. friend to withdraw his opposition for the present.Sir R. Fergusson
, sir J. Graham, and Mr. Western concurred in stating, that the subject was one of great importance, but that this was not the time for its discussion,Mr. Liddell
 said, he could not remain silent, after the manner in which the hon. member for Colchester had mentioned the name of the late Mr. Canning. The hon. member had said, that he had spoken of the Manchester massacre with savage brutality. Now, if any man would look back to the history of that time, he would find that there was no just ground for such a charge. He would admit that the right hon. gentleman had, on the occasion alluded to, made use of one indiscreet expression; and dearly had he afterwards paid for it, by the gross misrepresentations to which he had been subjected in consequence; but it would be found that the expression had not been used in the offensive sense in which it had afterwards been described, and that it was almost deserved by the individual to whom it had been applied. As to the talents of Mr. Canning, there could not be a difference of opinion; but it was not for the possession of those talents that the pension was now granted to his family, but for their entire devotion to the service of his country. Mr. Canning had filled several public offices, and he had filled them, particularly that of Secretary for Foreign Affairs, to the satisfaction of all and in a manner highly beneficial to the country. It was on these grounds that the provision was now proposed to his family. But it was said that the opinion of the people was against this grant. He should, however, be at no loss, not only to justify this vote to his constituents, but to glory in having paid the tribute of his homage to long-tried public services, private worth, and exalted genius.Mr. Liddell
"de mortuis et de absentibus nil nisi bonum" supported the amendment. He was the last man, he hoped, to look upon public services with indifference; but he could not assent to such a grant, in the present state of the finances of the State. For himself, he should always be inclimed to say, "de mortuis et de absentibus nil nisi bonum"Colonel Sibthorp
 observed, that as the extension of the jurisdiction of the county courts would greatly increase the number of causes in those courts, and as the consequence must be, that a large income would be derived from the increase of fees, it would be proper to introduce a clause in the bill to enable the House to regulate those fees hereafter.Mr. C. Wood
l.l. approved of the bill, and trusted that the valuable principle recognized in it would not be restricted to 10l.l.Mr. D. W. Harvey
894l.893 said, he would cheerfully concur in the speech of the right hon. and learned member behind him, if he could bring his mind to believe that splendid talents, highly cultivated, were the sole guide to public reward; and the more readily should he do so, as he saw no living evidence that the precedent was likely to become extensively burthen some to the country. But, greatly as he admired the transcendent powers of Mr. Canning, and that brilliant combination of mind and beauty which marked his parliamentary efforts, yet that pleasure was, with few exceptions, greatly subdued, because he thought those talents had been directed to purposes at variance with the ends of all good governments—the freedom
894l.893Mr. D. W. Harvey
 defended the magistrates of Dublin from the sweeping charge that had been made against them by the right hon. baronet. So far as his experience, went, they were wholly unobnoxious to such a charge.Mr. Moore
872871870ad libitum869 said, that the principal objects for which he introduced his present bill were comprised in a very few words. One of the merits of the measure which he was now asking leave to introduce to the House, and if it had not that merit he had misapplied the pains and trouble which he had bestowed upon it, was, that the bill which he was desirous to bring in was not a long one, that the provisions of it were simple and intelligible, that it was calculated to work out its own object, and that all it aimed at might be easily effected. The chief object of it was to give to all cities, boroughs, and cinque ports, in England—Ireland and Scotland he specifically excepted out of its operation,—a register containing the names and descriptions of all persons who had a legal right to tender their votes for the election of members to serve in parliament for those places. He was fully aware that nothing was more distasteful to the House than to enter into a discussion of the abstract principles of representation; he should therefore abstain from saying even a word upon that subject: but he could not help remarking, that whatever might be the views of gentlemen on the abstract theory of representation—or he should rather say the machinery of representation—there could be no good gained in practice by the concealment of the numbers or qualifications of those who had a right to vote at elections for cities and boroughs. There was no tenable ground on which it was desirable that either the candidates, or the returning officers, or the voters themselves, should be left in ignorance of the number and qualifications of the different voters. Whether gentlemen were inclined to favour the influence of property or the influence of population, in regard to elections, in neither case were they left uncrippled by being totally ignorant of the numbers and qualifications of those who exercised the elective franchise. Indeed, he apprehended there were only one or two objects that could be answered by refusing his motion; and he did not expect that gentlemen would rise up in that House to advocate either of them. One of them would be,
872871870ad libitum869Lord Nugent
 said, he could not suffer the observation of the hon. member for Aberdeen to go abroad without contradiction. That hon. member had spoken of the necessity of a paper currency convertible into gold, and seemed to suppose that such a currency would add to the security of the country. Why, it was just that sort of currency which destroyed the security, whenever a panic occurred from any cause whatever. What was it that occasioned, in 1825, the failure of twenty-five out of every hundred bankers, but the power of demanding that their notes should be immediately converted into gold? That convertibility, therefore, constituted the danger which parliament had wished to avoid; and he trusted that they would not depart from a course which experience had proved so necessary.Mr. Monck
882 declared, that he also must oppose the proposed grant. In the case of the earl of Chatham, that House was almost unanimous in granting a pension to his family, but in the House of Lords the proposal met with considerable
882Mr. Monck
l.l.l.l. said, that, on a former occasion, he had stated the grounds upon which he objected to this grant. Since that occasion he had met with additional grounds for opposing the grant. By a discussion that had taken place on a former evening, it appeared that no less a sum than 200,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
mesne process,l.l.l.l.l. was happy to hear that the right hon. gentleman intended to abolish the taking of the person, in all cases of debt decided against the defendant in the county court; because he held the principle of arresting the person to be contrary sound sense, good policy, and humanity. If the right hon. gentleman admitted the principle in the case of persons against whom debts of 10mesne process,l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 was glad that the act regulating the currency of England had stopped short of Scotland, and he believed that this country must, ere long, return to what he would call a sound currency of paper and gold—a paper currency that was convertible into gold on demand. By banishing such a currency from this country we had crippled ourselves, and the difference in the currencies of the three kingdoms was productive of the greatest inconvenience: there was one currency for England; another, totally different, for Scotland; and a third, of a mixed kind, for Ireland; and the whole was now to have the additional patchwork of a bill, to prevent Cumberland, and the northern parts of this country, from enjoying the same advantages as Scotland.Mr. Hume
To spurn delights and live laborious days."" Fame is the spur, which the pure soul doth raise895 said, he had not intended to take any part in this discussion, but after what had fallen from the hon. member who spoke last, he could not give a silent vote. He was surprised at first, why the hon. member had so construed the speech of his right hon. and learned friend as to dismiss from his consideration all the historical recollections of the life of Mr. Canning; but, as the hon. member proceeded, he saw on what ground he had dismissed them; they would not have answered his purpose, and therefore he touched only on those points which were calculated to excite angry feelings. His right hon. and learned friend's object had been to allay any such feelings, but the hon. member who last addressed the House, had, with perverse diligence, raked up every thing calculated to give a different tone and temper to the discussion. Now, he thought that the circumstance under which they were called to vote this grant was an addition to the praise of the lamented individual to whose services it referred; namely, the comparative poverty in which he had died. It was the duty of that House to take care that the families of those who had devoted themselves wholly to the public service should not suffer by
To spurn delights and live laborious days."" Fame is the spur, which the pure soul doth raise895Dr. Phillimore
898 felt himself called on to state on what grounds, if his hon. friend should divide the House, he should vote with him. Having already had an opportunity of stating the constitutional grounds of his opposition, he was inclined not to oppose the present motion, lest the opposition might appear to be of a personal character: but, after the speech of the gallant officer opposite, which was not in accordance with his usual good taste, and which threatened those who opposed the grant with the obloquy, not only of the present generation, but of posterity, he felt himself obliged to support the amendment. He thought it was incumbent on all those who opposed the grant on con-
898Mr. P. Thompson
l.892l.891 said, that his sentiments on this question had been so completely anticipated by what had fallen from the right hon. and learned gentleman, that little was left to him to say; vet, when the House considered the situation in which he stood, with respect to the late Mr. Canning, he hoped they would allow him briefly to state
l.892l.891Mr. Courtenay
880 expressed his gratitude to the right hon. gentleman for this measure, and thought it might be advantageously extended to debts of a larger amount. He hoped to see the time when there would be no imprisonment for debt in this country. He thought it better, however, to proceed by steps than to attempt too much at one stride; and he would suggest to his hon. friends the adoption of an old proverb.—"Do not work a willing horse to death." The right hon. gentleman had proceeded cautiously, and had never found it necessary to retrace his steps; which he
880Mr. G. Lamb
896 regretted to hear the grounds of objection which had been taken to this vote. These were various and inconsistent: some were on the score of economy, that it was too much; others that it was not enough; and others, again, that it should not be granted because of former votes in other cases: but he thought those objections had been set at rest by the eloquent speech of the right hon. and learned gentleman. It was painful to think, after the long and meritorious services of Mr. Canning, there should be such opposition to a grant which was deserved on so many grounds. What must have been the feelings of the right hon. gentleman in his last moments, and what his anxiety at the destitute condition of his wife and children? But how much more painfully acute would they have been, if he could, at that moment, have anticipated such a course as had that night been taken, in opposition to the very moderate provision which had been proposed for them? Did such an opposition become the representatives of a generous nation? Did it become them to refuse this scanty pittance to the family of one who had wasted his best energies and spent his whole life in the service of the public If there was any ground for this grant, extrinsic of the great services of the late lamented statesman, it would be found in the principle, that it was wise, by a proper
896Sir G. Murray
'Twill trickle to his rival's bier."" Drop upon Fox's tomb a tear,"Carteret's calm mind, and Stanhope's noble fame Admir'd; and saw their generous end the same."890889888887886885 spoke to the following effect:—Sir, I feel that I should be guilty of a great neglect of duty, if, not having addressed the House upon this subject on any former occasion, I were not to avail myself of this, my last opportunity, to justify the vote which I intend to give; and, in so doing, to express my dissent from some of the maxims which we have heard—maxims subversive of the whole of that system of national rewards, which forms one of the best parts of the policy of a powerful, a civilized, and above all, a free state. In so doing, Sir, I should have been exceedingly desirous to recommend a calm tone of discussion;
'Twill trickle to his rival's bier."" Drop upon Fox's tomb a tear,"Carteret's calm mind, and Stanhope's noble fame Admir'd; and saw their generous end the same."890889888887886885Sir James Mackintosh
899 said, he had not understood the gallant officer to impute any thing improper to those gentlemen who had voted against the measure on constitutional grounds. His urbanity recommended him as much to his friends, as his gallantry made him distinguished in the country. He had alluded, he thought, to those who, in the debate, had raked up all the topics which they could possibly collect against Mr. Canning, and which were now every where forgotten, except as they were still made the vehicles for vulgar abuse. Giving the hon. member for Colchester all possible credit for his integrity, he thought his speech was in much worse taste than that of the gallant officer. He did not mean to follow the hon. member for Colchester through all his remarks, but he would say that, the more Mr. Canning's character, public and private, was investigated, the brighter and the purer would it appear. The question had been argued on constitutional grounds, and the grant opposed as unconstitutional. Now, he thought there was nothing unconstitutional in it. The Crown had been accustomed to reward great public services in a liberal manner; but parliament had taken away the means, promising, when it did take them away, to be always ready to meet the wishes of the Crown on such a subject. Was it, therefore, unconstitutional for parliament to bestow great rewards for splendid public services? It was not: there were many instances to the contrary. The rewards bestowed on the duke of Marlborough were the subject of an act of parliament. The more modem examples of similar proceedings, had already been referred to, and he did not know on what ground the grant was unconstitutional. He understood the argument of those who said that where there
899Sir James Scarlett
883 said, he had sat in that House for five and twenty years, and when he assured them that for a large portion of that time, it had been his fortune to be in political hostility to Mr. Canning, he was sure they would acquit him of being actuated by any improper motive in voting as he should vote on this occasion. He did consider that the latter years of Mr. Canning's life had created so large a debt of gratitude, both from this country and from the whole of civilized Europe, that he should be wanting to himself if he did not come forward and support his vote by stating the reasons on which he gave it. He thought the country was indebted to Mr. Canning for liberating it from that system which, under the Holy Alliance, would have crushed all liberal institutions throughout Europe. He thought that the cause of liberty throughout the world was largely indebted to Mr. Canning, for the speedy recognition of the South American States. The question was, whether the
883Sir J. Newport
l.l.875 wished to know whether the measure was to extend to Ireland. The principle of voluntary contribution for the building and repairing of churches would be extremely acceptable there, where a large majority of the inhabitants who dissented from the Established Church were taxed to an enormous amount for the support of that establishment. The right hon. baronet alluded to the returns which had been laid before the House of the appointments made under the Vestry act, in
l.l.875Sir J. Newport
 was no friend to unnecessary expense, but thought that the bill curtailed constitutional enjoyment, on occasions which were not of frequent occurrence.Colonel Sibthorpe
 said, that, if the hon. member meant by constitutional enjoyment, eating and drinking for fifteen days, he thought that a detestable nuisance, and a disgrace to the country. At the same time he did not agree as to the time laid down in this bill. He thought there ought to be a graduated scale of time, adapted to the number of voters, and the facilities or difficulties of bringing them to the poll. It was his intention to amend this bill as far as he was able; and if he could not effect the amendments he wished to introduce, then he would do his utmost to throw it out, in order that he might introduce another bill, more congenial to the feelings of the country.Mr. F. Palmer
 said, that if the hon. member had been with him in the committees upon this bill, he would have seen that so far from being able to effect a graduated scale, he had found the greatest difficulty in getting any scale of time at al agreed to.Colonel Davies
 thought the time allowed quite sufficient.Mr. Batley
 opposed the bill, as calculated to restrict the time allowed for polling in an inconvenient degree.Mr. O'Neil
 said, that he was only anxious to have the bill referred to the select committee, on the Poor-laws. On the report of that committee, perhaps some measure, in the next session, might be found practicable. The abuses of the Poor-laws were all that he complained of.Mr. Slaney
 bore testimony to the abuses of the Poor-laws in his vicinity. In many parts of Buckinghamshire the system was, to pay the labourers only four or five shillings a week, and the parish rates made up the deficiency.Sir T. Fremantle
 said, that the state of things was just as bad in Berkshire.Mr. F. Palmer
"That the most fatal consequences would ensue from the operation of such a system; that the countries which shall hereafter supply us with grain in lieu of so much British displaced, would in our necessities raise a revenue by duties upon the export, which must be paid by us; they would increase their marine, by confining the corn trade to their own ships; and, finally, when our dependence upon men becomes further increased, they might in time of war force us to submit to any terms by closing their markets to our manufactures, and withdrawing from our unoccupied and famishing artizans that food which from them alone could then be supplied.""That the bill now upon the table, admitting foreign corn at all times upon payment of the duties therein provided, and into warehouse free of any duty till taken out for home consumption, must, in all probability, produce that effect:"That, though the price of grain is thus forced beyond its natural level, and the level of the continent, the growth of the United Empire is adequate to the demand in ordinary years, and might be increased to an incalculable extent; and that, under these circumstances the introduction of foreign grain must eventually displace an equal quantity of home growth, adding therefore nothing to the aggregate supply, rendering a portion of it very precarious, annihilating the capital employed in the production of the corn so displaced, and depriving- of occupation such a number of husbandmen as the cultivation required:"That the burthen of taxation has been further increased in the ratio of the increase of the value of money, under the operation of the act of 1819:"That taxation adds to the cost of production, and the additional charge so created must be paid, or the production will be discontinued:"That the present excess of price over the continental price is owing to artificial causes:"That for many years the money price of corn was at or below the continental price:902"That the cultivators of the United empire have, from its soil and climate, from their skill and industry, and the facility of conveyance, the means of rendering in our markets an abundant supply of grain with less labour, or, in other words, at a lower labour price, than most of the countries from whence a foreign supply would be drawn:"That the competition of the British growers of corn with each other has, in general, kept their profits below the profits of capital and industry devoted to other pursuits, and capital invested in land, in general returns a lower interest than when otherwise employed:"That, though this price, so much lower than the import prohibitory price, and the average price of the preceding twenty years is chiefly attributable to the increased value of the currency by the act of 1819, it affords ample proof that the producers of grain can no more uphold the price by means of the prohibition of foreign import, than the producers of any other article could save themselves from the depression which that act has occasioned in all the other products of industry:sss"That the act of 1815, prohibiting the import of foreign corn till the price of wheat rises to 80sss"That the most abundant supply, with the least fluctuation of price, And with a surplus for exportation, has occurred in those years in which the most effective protection has been given to British agriculture:"That our laws have for near two hundred years been framed upon the principle of the latter system above-described:"That, in order to accomplish this object, means very different have at different times been suggested; on the one hand it has been maintained, that a free commercial intercourse with foreign countries should, for this purpose, be allowed; on the other, the exclusive encouragement of British agriculture has been deemed the more effective and the safer policy:901"That every legislative enactment affecting the agriculture of the country, or the commerce in grain, should have for its
901 said, he had abstained from fatiguing the House with his opinions on the subject of the Corn-laws during the late discussions, because he found the unequivocal sense of the majority was against him. Having, however, directed his attention to this subject for a great many years, and often taken an active part in the discussions upon it, he was desirous, on the present occasion, to record the opinions which he had long formed and acted upon, in the shape of a string of resolutions upon the Journals of the House. As to the general state of agriculture, although the farmers had, in I most instances, recovered from the extreme depression into which they had been cast in the year 1822, he cautioned the House how they proceeded upon the notion, that the farming interests could bear tampering with. The subject was one of peril and difficulty, and he hoped they would pause before they pressed heavier on those who were the least able to bear that pressure. The hon. member concluded by moving the following Resolution, by way of amendment, viz.—
"That the most fatal consequences would ensue from the operation of such a system; that the countries which shall hereafter supply us with grain in lieu of so much British displaced, would in our necessities raise a revenue by duties upon the export, which must be paid by us; they would increase their marine, by confining the corn trade to their own ships; and, finally, when our dependence upon men becomes further increased, they might in time of war force us to submit to any terms by closing their markets to our manufactures, and withdrawing from our unoccupied and famishing artizans that food which from them alone could then be supplied.""That the bill now upon the table, admitting foreign corn at all times upon payment of the duties therein provided, and into warehouse free of any duty till taken out for home consumption, must, in all probability, produce that effect:"That, though the price of grain is thus forced beyond its natural level, and the level of the continent, the growth of the United Empire is adequate to the demand in ordinary years, and might be increased to an incalculable extent; and that, under these circumstances the introduction of foreign grain must eventually displace an equal quantity of home growth, adding therefore nothing to the aggregate supply, rendering a portion of it very precarious, annihilating the capital employed in the production of the corn so displaced, and depriving- of occupation such a number of husbandmen as the cultivation required:"That the burthen of taxation has been further increased in the ratio of the increase of the value of money, under the operation of the act of 1819:"That taxation adds to the cost of production, and the additional charge so created must be paid, or the production will be discontinued:"That the present excess of price over the continental price is owing to artificial causes:"That for many years the money price of corn was at or below the continental price:902"That the cultivators of the United empire have, from its soil and climate, from their skill and industry, and the facility of conveyance, the means of rendering in our markets an abundant supply of grain with less labour, or, in other words, at a lower labour price, than most of the countries from whence a foreign supply would be drawn:"That the competition of the British growers of corn with each other has, in general, kept their profits below the profits of capital and industry devoted to other pursuits, and capital invested in land, in general returns a lower interest than when otherwise employed:"That, though this price, so much lower than the import prohibitory price, and the average price of the preceding twenty years is chiefly attributable to the increased value of the currency by the act of 1819, it affords ample proof that the producers of grain can no more uphold the price by means of the prohibition of foreign import, than the producers of any other article could save themselves from the depression which that act has occasioned in all the other products of industry:sss"That the act of 1815, prohibiting the import of foreign corn till the price of wheat rises to 80sss"That the most abundant supply, with the least fluctuation of price, And with a surplus for exportation, has occurred in those years in which the most effective protection has been given to British agriculture:"That our laws have for near two hundred years been framed upon the principle of the latter system above-described:"That, in order to accomplish this object, means very different have at different times been suggested; on the one hand it has been maintained, that a free commercial intercourse with foreign countries should, for this purpose, be allowed; on the other, the exclusive encouragement of British agriculture has been deemed the more effective and the safer policy:901"That every legislative enactment affecting the agriculture of the country, or the commerce in grain, should have for its
901Mr. Western
 opposed the bill, as calculated to cramp the free exercise of the elective franchise. He thought the time allowed for the poll not sufficient.Mr. Sugden
 said, he hoped no steps would be taken upon the bill, without full consideration. Whatever faults there might be in the administration of the Poor-laws, he was convinced that, in principle, they could not be dispensed with.Mr. Benett
 believed that the learned member had greatly overrated the difficulties of the bill.Mr. Monck
 supported the bill, and thought six days sufficient.Mr. Fyler
 opposed the bill, and moved that the report be taken into consideration that day three months.Mr. Trant
 said, he was not surprised that the hon. member for Essex had taken the opportunity of recording his opinions, and showing to the public and his constituents that he had discharged his, duty; but in the present stage of the bill it was surely unnecessary to enter upon a discussion of the merits of the measure.Mr. F. Lewis
 thought the time ought to be extended to ten days.Mr. Robinson
907Sir, I am surprised at the objections urged against the appointment of military men to civil offices. The House has now before it the manner in which civil appointments have been discharged, and from that specimen it can judge of the general fitness of military men for such appointments. Sir, I maintain that, generally speaking, they have been the most competent persons to hold them. If we maintain, that a military education disqualifies a man for a civil appointment, then we have a right to say that it disqualifies him for a seat in this House; nay, for the possession of every right of a free citizen. Not far back, every gentleman thought it dishonourable
907Sir A. Hope.—
:—Sir, if all I have heard be correct, I think the appointment of the gallant officer in question as good as any that it is in his majesty's power to make. But I do hope and trust, we shall soon have an assurance, that the administration is permanently settled; for I think it would be better that we should act upon a system in some degree defective than that our whole policy should be in a state of continual change. All who have witnessed what has taken place in this country within the last twelve or thirteen months, must see the necessity of coming to some fixed determination with respect to the administration. Within the short period to which I have alluded, we have had no less than four Colonial Secretaries, not to allude to the other equally numerous changes of place. Under these circumstances, how can we hope for any perfect system of colonial legislation.—Sir, when we look around us, we must feel convinced, that if we are not to have one set of individuals, we ought at least to act upon one fixed and determinate system. In some of our colonies it has, for some time, been unknown who was Colonial Secretary. We scarcely sent them out the name of one individual, than they were informed that that individual had been displaced. Under such a system of change, how can any efficient colonial measure be expected? For myself, I am ready to give my humble support to any ministry formed on sound, constitutional principles, without caring from what party, or set of men, they may be chosen.Mr. Hobhouse
905I am aware, Sir, that, strictly speaking, this House has no right to interfere with the king in the appointment of the officers to whom he wishes, to intrust the direction of his government. But I think that, in the present state of the country, as well as of our colonies, this House, and the country at large, have a right to expect some guarantee, that an efficient officer will be appointed to the very important situation of Colonial Secretary. The right hon. gentleman who lately filled that office, was commencing a system of kindness and conciliation, which was calculated to produce union and peace in our colonies; and, if a different system be now adopted, both will be banished, and discord and disunion will prevail in their stead. For my own part, I anticipate a change of our colonial policy; and I dread it the more at the period like the present, when our internal state requires that every practicable reduction should be made both at home and abroad. No man can look at the present state of the
905Mr. Hume said,—
906.—Sir, I find it impossible to listen to the observations made by the hon. member, without feeling desirous to say a few words in answer to the observations he has made upon the appointment of my gallant friend. And first, I will ask, whether it follows, that, because a man has borne arms, he is therefore unfit to hold a civil appointment? Is a man, because he has been brought up in the school of honour, the less fit to devote himself to the service of his country in a civil capacity. Under all the circumstances, I consider the observations of the hon. member, to say the least of them, a little premature and uncalled-for. As to the gallant officer; I know no man more competent to fill the situation. He had been long stationed as a military officer abroad; and had an opportunity of making himself acquainted with our colonies; and
906Colonel Lindsay
 said, the commissioners had not yet made their final report. He remembered that, in a former case, when part of a report was submitted to the House, it was felt that it would be inconvenient to lay the whole upon the table, in consequence of some individual reflections. He hoped he should soon be able to answer the questions put to him.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
909 said, he did not deny the right of parliament to the whole of the reports: he had mere-
909The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 maintained the right of parliament to a full and complete report of the commissioners whom they had appointed.Mr. Gordon
 said, that his right hon. friend could not mean to deny the right of the House, but to except only such cases of individual difference and hostility as ought not to be revived, unless connected with some question relating to the public service.Mr. Peel
 could not concur in the distinction drawn by the right hon. gentleman, for he seemed to forget, that the whole of those questions between the colonies and their governors were questions of a personal nature. All the petitioners complained of the gross misgovernment of individuals, and it was to be remembered, that every one of our great colonies had now come forward with complaints. Unless the gallant officer now at the head of that department, could devise some better mode of governing the colonies than had hitherto been adopted, it was to be feared that great evils would arise under the present system. If it was to be understood that every thing of a personal nature was to be struck out from these reports, the House never could understand the question between the colonies and their governors. The case was different in matters of a strictly private nature, though even then he should be very jealous of leaving it to the colonial department to decide what was private and what was not.Mr. Baring
 said, he had merely alluded to private differences, which were known to exist at the Cape.Mr. Peel
 said, that from the little experience he had had in colonial affairs, he was impressed with the conviction, that there could not be a worse with reference to New South Wales, than to carry into execution sentences of seven years' transportation. This country could not make a worse present to that colony than a young London pickpocket.Lord F. L. Gower
915 said, that the hon. member was mistaken as to the remission of punishment at the end of two years. The rule was, that the superintendent, at the end of three years and a half, had the privilege of recommending eight out of every hundred convicts to the Secretary of
915Mr. Secretary Peel
 considered the present system preferable to any that he had heard suggested.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 thought it high time, that the colony should be exempted from a practice which impeded its improvement.Mr. Stuart Worthy
l. said, it would be in the recollection of the committee, that it was arranged, under the treaty of Ghent, that commissioners should be appointed to settle the boundary line between the territories of his Britannic majesty and of the United States. It was found that such a settlement could not be made without commissioners being present on the spot; and in consequence two sets of commissions had been appointed. He was happy to state, with regard to one of them, that their labours were already terminated, and with regard to the other, that they would terminate in the course of the next year; so that, after that period, the committee would not be called upon to make any further grants upon this head. With respect to the item of 2,400l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that negotiations were going on between the two governments, the object of which was to relieve the country from this expense.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. said, that when the treaty was signed, the Mexican government thought proper to make a present of 1,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had, in his intercourse with the colonial office, known Mr. Stephen, and he believed him to be a man of honour and of perfect impartiality.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 gave full credit to the merits of Mr. Stephen; still, such was the prejudice against him, and such was the extraordinary coincidence between his writings relative to colonial affairs, and the public acts of the government at home, alluding more particularly to the late despatch of the colonial minister where whole passages were literally the same, that he verily believed no one circumstance would tend more to conciliate the colonies, than—not the removal, for he meant no reflection upon the individual—but the promotion of that gentleman to some other office. It would, he could not help thinking, be alike grateful to the learned gentleman himself, as it would undoubtedly be to the colonies.Mr. R. Gordon
s.s.l.914l.l.l. said, that the hon. gentleman was probably not aware of the fact, that there was a limit to the number of convicts who could be received in the colony of New South Wales; and it was, besides, very doubtful, whether those who were sent to that colony proved such good members of society as those who were forced to labour on board the hulks. It was a matter worthy of attention, that transportation had not been introduced, as a punishment, into any other country of Europe. In almost all other countries, convicts were subjected to hard labour on public works. That the result of the employment of a certain portion of the convicts in labour on board the Hulks was not expensive, a slight examination of the accounts would prove. By the return in his hand, it appeared, that there were last year on board the Hulks, four thousand and thirty healthy convicts, and two hundred and thirty-three sick, making in ail four thousand two hundred and sixty-three. The deaths in the year amounted to one hundred and sixty-six, and the total expense of their support was estimated at 75,810s.s.l.914l.l.l.Mr. Secretary Peel
 bore testimony to the extent of labour done by the convicts in the Dock-yards. They proved the best workmen, and saved considerable sums to the government.Sir G. Cockburn
l. then moved, that 98,413l.Mr. Dawson
 observed, that the suggestion of the hon. gentleman for separating the estimates, might form a proper subject for the finance committee, but could not be entertained in a committee like the present.Mr. Dawson
l. moved, that 140,000l.Mr. G. Dawson
913 had no desire to speak disparagingly of Mr. Stephen, although he felt the weight of prejudice which called for his removal, and knew that it would be the greatest step which the government could
913Mr. Bright
 deprecated the system of condemning convicts for seven years to the Hulks, but whose punishment was remitted after two years' condemnation. This commutation of punishment gave employment to undeserving convicts, whilst industrious persons were left without occupation.Mr. Benett
 agreed, that it was better to employ the convicts in labour if possible, but he thought that labour ought to be performed in the colonies. The convicts were kept in this country at a great expense, in order to do that labour which ought to fall to the lot of the guiltless and the industrious part of the community. He recommended the government, if they were determined to promote emigration, to begin with the worthless part of the population. If any of the convicts considered transportation in any other light than a punishment, he would send them to countries less congenial with their feelings, and less favourable in climate.Mr. Benett
 wished to know whether the hon. member would reduce those who represented the majesty of England to this wretched condition—that they should receive presents from foreign powers, and not be allowed to make them in return?Captain O'Neill
 thought, that it would be a great saving to every country, if a stop were put to the practice of making and receiving presents.Mr. Hume
l.l.l. said, he wished to make one observation on the expenditure of the colonial department, which amounted this year to 39,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 doubted whether the confinement of convicts on board the hulks, as the system was now carried on, was of any service. Persons who had been thus treated were often brought two or three times before courts of justice, after they had undergone their punishment. It would be much better to send the convicts out of the country at once.Mr. Hume
l. said, there was a charge of 4,000l.Mr. Hume
 said, that a stop should be put to this exchange of presents with foreign ministers, which he looked upon as nothing else but bribery and corruption [a laugh]. After all the pains we had been taking to make electors honest, we ought to take some pains to make the high officers of state honest too. Public functionaries ought to be prevented from receiving presents in this manner, or be compelled to pay the amount into the public treasury.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l. proceeded to contend, that the country was paying more for its diplomatic services than any other in the world. Besides the charge of 226,000l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.908 complained, that so many items were classed under a single head, and thought it would be much better that they should be separated in the estimates,
l.908Mr. Hume
l.l.l.910l. was of opinion, that when a public commission was appointed, it ought not to be in the power of ministers to defer the presentation of their report, because it contained matter of a private or a personal nature. They ought to take it for granted, that the commissioners whom they appointed would not introduce into their report any thing that was frivolous or impertinent. As he intended to take another opportunity of saying a word or two on these reports, he would leave them without further remark at present, and would proceed to notice an item of 6 000l.l.l.910l.Mr. Hume
 said, that a million of money had been paid in the course of the last twenty years, for commissions of inquiry; in return for which, we had only received extracts and abstracts, and alt sorts of partial and garbled statements.Mr. Hume
 having moved a new Writ for Perthshire, in the room of Sir George Murray, who had accepted the office of Secretary of State for the Colonies, in the room of Mr. Huskisson,Mr. Planta
.—Sir, I can bear testimony to the high character and military talents of my gallant friend. He has, upon every occasion, discharged his military duties in a manner alike honourable to himself and advantageous to the country. But I cannot help expressing my dismay, at witnessing the frequency with which, administrations have, in succession, been broken up, by private dissentions and internal quarrels. I should look upon these changes with distrust at any period, but they are peculiarly to be dreaded when coupled with the state of the country, our foreign relations, and our colonial possessions. There are great public questions shortly to be agitated, as well in this as in the other House of Parliament, which must depend mainly upon the character and principles of the cabinet; and I hold it to be a heavy responsibility on the part of those who create disunion and distrust, where union and co-operation ought to prevail. Such a course of proceeding must of necessity create a want of confidence in this House and in the country, and without confidence, it is impossible that public business can proceed. I feel bound to acknowledge the eminent services rendered to this country by the noble duke at the head of his majesty's councils, in his military character; but I entertain apprehensions of the continuance of his civil career. I trust in God, that the military glory which he has achieved may not be eclipsed by the misfortunes of his civil appointment.Sir George Warrender
 was of opinion, that parliament had a right to the whole of the reports, and ought not to be satisfied with mere extracts.Sir J. Newport
 said: —In rising to move the order of the day for the committee upon the East Retford Disfranchisement Bill, I cannot refrain from expressing my deep regret, that a measure, winch rests upon grounds altogether distinct from party considerations,—the failure or the success of which could not affect the stability of any administration,—a measure, too, which I had fondly imagined would be productive of unmixed advantage to the country, should have incidentally occasioned a change in his majesty's government, which, I am persuaded, a vast majority of all thinking men in this country will agree with me in considering, both in itself, and its probable consequences, a great public misfortune.Mr. Tennyson
944943942941940939"Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON."938"London, 26thMay, 1828."W. HUSKISSON."93725th May, 1828."Downing St. 9 ½ P. M.936"The Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON.""London, May 25, 1828.Duke of Wellington, K. G.""His Grace the"W. HUSKISSON."935934933932931"WELLINGTON.""If you had called on me the next morning after your vote, and had explained to me in conversation what had passed in the House of Commons, the character of the communication would have been quite different; and I might have felt myself at liberty to discuss the whole subject with you; and freely to give an opinion upon any point connected with it. But I must still think that if I had not considered a letter couched in the terms in which that letter is couched, and received under the circumstances under which I received it, as a tender of resignation, and had not laid it before the king, I should have exposed the king's government and myself to very painful misconstructions. My answer to your letter will have informed you that it surprised me much, and that it gave me great concern. I must consider therefore the resignation of your office as your own act, and not as mine, Ever your's, most sincerely."Could I consider this in any other light than as a formal tender of the resignation of your office, or that I had any alternative but either to solicit you to remain in office contrary to your sense of duty, or to submit your letter to the king?"It is addressed to me at two o'clock in the morning, immediately after a debate and division in the House of Commons. It informs me that you lose no time in affording me an opportunity of placing your office in other hands, as the only means in your power of preventing an injury to the king's service which you describe. It concludes by 'regretting the necessity for troubling me with this communication.""My dear Huskisson;—In consequence of your last letter I feel it to be necessary to recall to your recollection, the circumstances under which I received your letter of Tuesday morning."London, May 21st, 1828.930"W. HUSKISSON.""On the other hand, nothing can be further from my intention than to express an opinion, that the occasion was not one in which you might fairly consider it your duty to advise his majesty to withdraw from me the seals of office, on the ground of this vote. I do not, therefore, complain; but I cannot allow that my removal shall be placed on any other ground;—I cannot allow that it was my own act;—still less can I admit that, when I had no other intention than to relieve the question, on which you had to decide, from any personal embarrassment, this step on my part should be ascribed to feelings, the very reverse of those by which alone I was actuated, either towards you or his majesty's government. Believe me, to be, my dear duke, your's very sincerely,"If, understanding my communication as I intended it to be understood, you had, in any way, intimated to me, either that the occurrence, however unfortunate, was not one of sufficient moment to render it necessary for you, on public grounds, to act in the manner in which I had assumed that you possibly might think it necessary —or that you were under that necessity— in either case there would have been an end of the matter. In the first supposition, I should have felt that I had clone what, in honour and fairness towards you, I was bound to do; but it never could have entered my imagination that I had claimed, or received, any sacrifice whatever from you, or any member of his majesty's government."If you had not misconceived that impression, as well as the purport of my second letter, I am persuaded that you could not suppose me guilty of the arrogance of expecting "that you and his majesty's government should submit yourselves to the necessity of soliciting me to remain in my office," or do me the injustice of believing that I could be capable of placing you in the alternative of choosing between the continuance of my services, (such as they are) and the loss to your administration of one particle of character, which, I agree with you, is the foundation of public confidence."It was under this impression alone that I wrote to you immediately upon my return from the House of Commons.929"You cannot refuse to me the right of knowing the motives of my own actions, and I solemnly declare that, in both my letters, I was actuated by one and the same feeling. It was simply this.—That it was not for me, but for you, as the head of the government, to decide how far my vote made it expedient to remove me from his majesty's service. I felt that I had no alternative, consistently with personal honour (in a difficulty not of my own seeking or creating) but to give that vote;— that the question in itself was one of very minor importance;—that the disunion was more in appearance than in reality; but I also felt that, possibly, you might take a different view of it, and that, in case you should, I ought (as I had once done on a similar occasion with lord Liverpool) to relieve you from any difficulty, arising out of personal consideration towards me, in deciding upon a step to which you
929"My dear Duke;—In justice to myself I cannot acquiesce for a moment in the construction which your letter of last night puts upon my conduct."Colonial Office, 21st May, 1828.(Private.)928"The Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON.""In this view of the case I have put out of it altogether every consideration of the discredit resulting from the scene of last night; of the extent of which you could not but have been sensible when you thought proper, as a remedy for it to send me the offer of 'placing your office in other hands.' Ever, my dear Huskisson, yours most sincerely,"However sensible I may be of this loss, I am convinced that, in these times, any loss is better than that of character, which is the foundation of public confidence."My dear Huskisson;—I have received your letter of this evening. I certainly did not understand your letter of two o'clock this morning, as offering me any option; nor do I understand the one of this evening as leaving me any, excepting that of submitting myself and his majesty's government to the necessity of soliciting you to remain in your office, or of incur ring the loss of your valuable assistance to his majesty's service."London, May 20th, 1828.(Private.)"W. HUSKISSON."927"My dear Duke;—Having understood from lord Dudley and lord Palmerston, that you had laid my letter of last night before the king under a different impression from that which it was intended to convey, I feel it due both to you and to myself to say, that my object in writing that letter was, not to express any intentions of my own, but to relieve you from any delicacy which you might feel towards me, if you should think that the interests of his majesty's service would be prejudiced by my remaining in office, after giving a
927"Downing St. 20tk May, 3/6 p. M. 1828.(Private.)"The Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON,""My dear Huskisson;—Your letter of two this morning, which I received at ten, has surprised me much, and has given me great concern. I have considered it my duty to lay it before the king. Ever your's most sincerely,"London, May 20th, 1828.(Private.)926925s"W. HUSKISSON.""Regretting the necessity of troubling you with this communication, believe me, my dear duke, ever truly yours,"My dear Duke.—After the vote which, in regard to my own consistency and personal character, I have found myself, from the course of this evening's debate, compelled to give on the East Retford question, I owe to you as the head of the administration, and to Mr. Peel as the leader of the House of Commons, to lose no time in affording you an opportunity of placing my office in other hands, as the only means in my power of preventing the injury to the king's service, which may ensue from the appearance of disunion in his Majesty's councils, however unfounded in reality, or however unimportant in itself the question which has given rise to that appearance."Tuesday Morning, 2 A. M. 20th May."Downing Street,(Private and Confidential)924923922l921ll920919918 rose and said:—944943942941940939"Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON."938"London, 26thMay, 1828."W. HUSKISSON."93725th May, 1828."Downing St. 9 ½ P. M.936"The Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON.""London, May 25, 1828.Duke of Wellington, K. G.""His Grace the"W. HUSKISSON."935934933932931"WELLINGTON.""If you had called on me the next morning after your vote, and had explained to me in conversation what had passed in the House of Commons, the character of the communication would have been quite different; and I might have felt myself at liberty to discuss the whole subject with you; and freely to give an opinion upon any point connected with it. But I must still think that if I had not considered a letter couched in the terms in which that letter is couched, and received under the circumstances under which I received it, as a tender of resignation, and had not laid it before the king, I should have exposed the king's government and myself to very painful misconstructions. My answer to your letter will have informed you that it surprised me much, and that it gave me great concern. I must consider therefore the resignation of your office as your own act, and not as mine, Ever your's, most sincerely."Could I consider this in any other light than as a formal tender of the resignation of your office, or that I had any alternative but either to solicit you to remain in office contrary to your sense of duty, or to submit your letter to the king?"It is addressed to me at two o'clock in the morning, immediately after a debate and division in the House of Commons. It informs me that you lose no time in affording me an opportunity of placing your office in other hands, as the only means in your power of preventing an injury to the king's service which you describe. It concludes by 'regretting the necessity for troubling me with this communication.""My dear Huskisson;—In consequence of your last letter I feel it to be necessary to recall to your recollection, the circumstances under which I received your letter of Tuesday morning."London, May 21st, 1828.930"W. HUSKISSON.""On the other hand, nothing can be further from my intention than to express an opinion, that the occasion was not one in which you might fairly consider it your duty to advise his majesty to withdraw from me the seals of office, on the ground of this vote. I do not, therefore, complain; but I cannot allow that my removal shall be placed on any other ground;—I cannot allow that it was my own act;—still less can I admit that, when I had no other intention than to relieve the question, on which you had to decide, from any personal embarrassment, this step on my part should be ascribed to feelings, the very reverse of those by which alone I was actuated, either towards you or his majesty's government. Believe me, to be, my dear duke, your's very sincerely,"If, understanding my communication as I intended it to be understood, you had, in any way, intimated to me, either that the occurrence, however unfortunate, was not one of sufficient moment to render it necessary for you, on public grounds, to act in the manner in which I had assumed that you possibly might think it necessary —or that you were under that necessity— in either case there would have been an end of the matter. In the first supposition, I should have felt that I had clone what, in honour and fairness towards you, I was bound to do; but it never could have entered my imagination that I had claimed, or received, any sacrifice whatever from you, or any member of his majesty's government."If you had not misconceived that impression, as well as the purport of my second letter, I am persuaded that you could not suppose me guilty of the arrogance of expecting "that you and his majesty's government should submit yourselves to the necessity of soliciting me to remain in my office," or do me the injustice of believing that I could be capable of placing you in the alternative of choosing between the continuance of my services, (such as they are) and the loss to your administration of one particle of character, which, I agree with you, is the foundation of public confidence."It was under this impression alone that I wrote to you immediately upon my return from the House of Commons.929"You cannot refuse to me the right of knowing the motives of my own actions, and I solemnly declare that, in both my letters, I was actuated by one and the same feeling. It was simply this.—That it was not for me, but for you, as the head of the government, to decide how far my vote made it expedient to remove me from his majesty's service. I felt that I had no alternative, consistently with personal honour (in a difficulty not of my own seeking or creating) but to give that vote;— that the question in itself was one of very minor importance;—that the disunion was more in appearance than in reality; but I also felt that, possibly, you might take a different view of it, and that, in case you should, I ought (as I had once done on a similar occasion with lord Liverpool) to relieve you from any difficulty, arising out of personal consideration towards me, in deciding upon a step to which you
929"My dear Duke;—In justice to myself I cannot acquiesce for a moment in the construction which your letter of last night puts upon my conduct."Colonial Office, 21st May, 1828.(Private.)928"The Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON.""In this view of the case I have put out of it altogether every consideration of the discredit resulting from the scene of last night; of the extent of which you could not but have been sensible when you thought proper, as a remedy for it to send me the offer of 'placing your office in other hands.' Ever, my dear Huskisson, yours most sincerely,"However sensible I may be of this loss, I am convinced that, in these times, any loss is better than that of character, which is the foundation of public confidence."My dear Huskisson;—I have received your letter of this evening. I certainly did not understand your letter of two o'clock this morning, as offering me any option; nor do I understand the one of this evening as leaving me any, excepting that of submitting myself and his majesty's government to the necessity of soliciting you to remain in your office, or of incur ring the loss of your valuable assistance to his majesty's service."London, May 20th, 1828.(Private.)"W. HUSKISSON."927"My dear Duke;—Having understood from lord Dudley and lord Palmerston, that you had laid my letter of last night before the king under a different impression from that which it was intended to convey, I feel it due both to you and to myself to say, that my object in writing that letter was, not to express any intentions of my own, but to relieve you from any delicacy which you might feel towards me, if you should think that the interests of his majesty's service would be prejudiced by my remaining in office, after giving a
927"Downing St. 20tk May, 3/6 p. M. 1828.(Private.)"The Rt. Hon. W. Huskisson.""WELLINGTON,""My dear Huskisson;—Your letter of two this morning, which I received at ten, has surprised me much, and has given me great concern. I have considered it my duty to lay it before the king. Ever your's most sincerely,"London, May 20th, 1828.(Private.)926925s"W. HUSKISSON.""Regretting the necessity of troubling you with this communication, believe me, my dear duke, ever truly yours,"My dear Duke.—After the vote which, in regard to my own consistency and personal character, I have found myself, from the course of this evening's debate, compelled to give on the East Retford question, I owe to you as the head of the administration, and to Mr. Peel as the leader of the House of Commons, to lose no time in affording you an opportunity of placing my office in other hands, as the only means in my power of preventing the injury to the king's service, which may ensue from the appearance of disunion in his Majesty's councils, however unfounded in reality, or however unimportant in itself the question which has given rise to that appearance."Tuesday Morning, 2 A. M. 20th May."Downing Street,(Private and Confidential)924923922l921ll920919918Mr. Huskisson
948947946945 said:— There is nothing, Sir, that has fallen from my right hon. friend that shall prevent me from prefacing the observations which I have to offer to the House with the expression of my deep and sincere regret at the circumstances which have rendered these explanations necessary. When, in the early part of this year, Sir, I was recalled, without any act or suggestion of my own, into the public service, I own I did all that I could to promote the union of those who had co-operated in the administration at a former period; and my right hon. friend himself can best judge whether, during the period which has elapsed since that re-union was effected, to the very day that his separation from the government took place, I have not acted with a desire to strengthen and confirm that union. I had heartily hoped that the time had at length come, when, being again joined together in the public service, the recollection of the differences of last year might be obliterated among us—I had hoped, that the time had come when public men would not be called on I for personal explanations of their conduct, but when we might be cordially acting together in the public service, and devoting our best energies as ministers to advance the welfare of the state. Sir, I regret that the event has not been such. I deeply regret the necessity of entering into this explanation, and I make the same appeal to the House for indulgence, which my right hon. friend made, whilst I follow his example in explaining fully the circumstances into which he has entered.948947946945Mr. Secretary Peel
 here observed, that he did this inadvertently.Mr. Huskisson
962961960959958"The right hon. W. Huskisson."957"London, May 21, 1828.956955954(Signed) "W. HUSKISSON."953"Downing St., 2. A. M. May 20th.952951950949: My right hon. friend says, he made this observation inadvertently, and I thought at the time he had spoken of this matter inadvertently, and in the heat of argument. My right hon. friend said, that if he had only one borough to deal with, he would consent to give it to a great manufacturing or commercial town, and he says that an inference was to be drawn from what I said, which warranted him in thinking that my opinions coincided with his. This is most certainly the very first time I ever heard that any such inference was to be drawn from what I said upon this subject; and I really must say, that in all the discussions which have taken place upon the question, I never heard that any such inference could be drawn from any thing I said, or from any argument I had advanced. Sure I am, at all events, that no authority was given to me by the members of the government to make any admission upon the subject of the single borough. My right hon. friend will recollect, that on the Sunday, when the meeting took place, I told him he was in a different situation from the other members of the government. I said to my right hon. friend, "You have made a declaration upon the subject of the single
962961960959958"The right hon. W. Huskisson."957"London, May 21, 1828.956955954(Signed) "W. HUSKISSON."953"Downing St., 2. A. M. May 20th.952951950949Mr. Peel continued
970969968967amende966965964963:—Sir, I feel that I owe it as a duty to myself and to the House to explain such parts of the transactions adverted to in the speeches of my right hon. friends, as far as I was connected with them, and as far as they have relation to the grounds that led to my retirement from office. With respect to the borough of East Retford, my right hon. friend, who spoke last, will confirm me in the statement, that I very early acquainted him with the preference that I entertained for transferring forfeited franchises to large manufacturing towns, rather than to extend them to the hundred. However, as, in the case recently brought before parliament, there were the franchises of two boroughs, Penryn and East Retford, to be disposed of, I considered it a reasonable proposal, that one of them, Penryn, should be transferred to a large manufacturing town, Birmingham, for instance, and that East Retford might be thrown into the hundred. This was in the case of two boroughs being to be disfranchised: but I never concealed from my right hon. friend, that in the event of there being only one borough, I should prefer the transfer of that one to a manufacturing town; otherwise the House of Commons would be acting on a rule which my right hon. friend himself deprecated; namely, that there should be a settled precedent for transferring a forfeited franchise either to a manufacturing or to an agricultural district. This rule, it appeared to me, would be acted upon, if, after having extended the forfeited franchise to the adjacent hundreds in the cases of Shoreham, Cricklade, and Ailesbury, an additional instance should be afforded of disposing of a new disfranchised borough in a similar way. It certainly was the impression on the minds of those who were present in the cabinet on the previous
970969968967amende966965964963Lord Palmerston said
972971 — I should not have trespassed again on the indulgence of the House, in explanation, had not much of the debate turned upon matters which it is material should not be misunderstood. My right hon. friend, in the first part of his speech, alluded to the proceedings which took place concerning East Retford. He stated, that I meant to have voted as he did. I am bound to say, that his statement is perfectly correct. I came down to this House fully intending to vote with my right hon. friend. Nay, such was my intention nearly up to twelve o'clock on that night. Up to that hour I saw no necessity for not giving that vote. It having been settled in the cabinet that morning, that it should be an open question, my vote was not material one way or the other: but after that hour, an attempt was made to lay down an entirely new proposition, with respect to the elective franchise, I therefore proposed an adjournment of the question, until we could decide upon this new principle. If my right hon. friend will refer to what I said, he will see that I opposed the substitution of Manchester for Birmingham on a technical objection. What I said was, "if we were to send up a second bill, with the word Manchester in it, we should be guilty of a manifest inconsistency." We had a right to presume that the bill in the Lords would not transfer the franchise to Manchester; but still it was urged, that, whilst it was in the Lords, we could not send up another bill with the same name to it. We were not to know that that bill would ever pass; and we were bound to proceed upon the knowledge which we had, that the Penryn bill would not transfer the franchise to another town. I knew my own intentions; I knew that I had it not in contemplation to speak in the debate of the 21st March; nor could I have any motives for outstepping the limits assigned by my colleagues. If I did, it was inadvertently, but whether it was so or not, I was bound by it. This, however, is a point which I do not think it necessary to enter into further. From the imperfect manner in which I expressed myself, my right hon. friend must have greatly misunderstood me in that part of my speech,
972971Mr. Huskisson.
973 said, that he was not disposed to take a part in discussing the very extraordinary transactions which had given rise to the explanations of the right hon. gentleman, and to the speech of the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department. That which was of the most importance to the House, and to the country, was, the character and intentions of the government formed after the resignations. That it was, in many essential particulars, both with respect to the individual composing it, and, if he might so speak, with respect to the principles of its construction, different from that which had preceded it, no man could entertain a doubt. On this subject, however, he abstained for the present, from making any observations.—He was willing still to wait and watch the proceedings of the government; but if he had thought that vigilance was necessary at the beginning of
973Mr. Brougham
"future"974 said, that the separation between himself and his right hon. friend had not arisen from any difference of opinion on the general policy of the government. He had made no compromise in remaining in office. As to the future, he would not give any pledge, but he did not contemplate any change in the foreign or domestic policy of the country."future"974Mr. Peel
 asked the right hon. member, to which of the words "future." his amendment applied?Mr. Tennyson
 said, that, the House was bound to counteract the evil which had been proved to exist in this borough. The view which the House had taken of previous cases of this kind was perfectly clear. If, in the case of any delinquent borough, a number of voters were proved to have been free from corruption, the practice was, to exclude the tainted voters, and to retain those that were pure, by extending the franchise to the neighbouring hundred. It was in this mode that the House had proceeded in former cases of boroughs in which some voters were corrupt and some untainted, and where it was thought desirable to preserve the untainted voters in the possession of their former privileges. This was the case with Penryn, where it was not proved that half the voters were tainted. But, in the case of East Retford, it was quite different, for there the great majority were proved to have been corrupt. Therefore the ground for throwing open the franchise to the neighbouring hundred did not exist. His hon. friend (Mr. N. Calvert) said, it was not his intention to destroy the borough, but to throw it open to the hundred of Bassetlaw. This would be, in effect, to create that hundred into a little county in itself; for there were scarcely more than two members of the borough of East Retford who could have a vote in it. Rather than agree to the creation of these little new counties, he would prefer that the franchise should go to one of the Ridings of Yorkshire.Mr. Huskisson
975 expressed a hope, that the bill would have the vote of the right hon. Secretary, after what he had admitted —the compromise that had been made. Having stated that compromise, the right hon. gentleman should be bound by it; for it was childish to suppose that the franchise, in the case of the bill sent up to the other House, would now be given to Manchester. If transferred at all, it
975Mr. C. Wood
976 observed, that as to the merits of the question, it had been said,
976Mr. Stanley
 said, the evidence did not bear out the hon. gentleman in the assertion that only eleven voters in East Retford remained uncorrupted. The evidence applied rather to the election of 1812, than to the subsequent elections; and since that period about one hundred and forty-six new freemen had been added. It would be most unjust to deprive those individuals of their rights, without conclusive evidence of their guilt. The hon. gentleman had made allusion to the returning officer; but it should be recollected, that there were two returning officers for the borough, a junior and a senior. Now, the senior officer had never been even suspected of receiving a bribe. Upon the whole he thought the motion of the hon. member for Hertfordshire was most consistent with justice, and therefore he would give it his support.Mr. G. Bankes
 addressed the House, but continued coughing and other noises rendered him quite inaudible.Mr. Alderman Waithman
977 said, he had thought one of the proposals of the hon. mover of this bill was, to agree in effecting a compromise, by admitting one of the boroughs to retain its franchise, while the other was given to a large town. By that plan his course would be governed. If the House of Lords should throw the franchise of Penryn into the neighbouring hundreds, he, as an individual, should consider himself bound by his pledge, and would certainly redeem it, by throwing the franchise of the borough of East Retford into the hands of the inhabitants of a large town. But if the Lords adopted a different course, then,
977Mr. Secretary Peel
 objected to that recommendation, that if the bill should now be printed with that amendment, the House would afterwards be considered to have taken an irretrievable step. He would rather lose the bill altogether, than let the franchise be extended to the hundred.Mr. Tennyson
 said, he was convinced that there had been notorious and general corruption, such as to justify him in punishing the borough. He would consent to disfranchise every individual member of that borough who had been proved to have been guilty of corruption. He would, in that respect, go beyond the cases of Cricklade and Aylesbury, and adopt the precedent furnished by the borough of Shoreham. In doing so, there might be a question as to whether that punishment could be visited on those who had admitted their corruption at the bar of that House; since those individuals had been promised indemnity. Upon that promise, it might be a question whether the indemnity was an indemnity from penal consequences only, or from consequences of any other kind.Mr. Secretary Peel
978 thought it quite unnecessary to wait for the decision of the House of Lords, of the nature of which they must all be well aware. He much regretted that the right hon. Secretary had not made the other night the same declaration which he had just made. It would have saved a world of embarrassment elsewhere, and have avoided the necessity for much of what had passed to-night. With respect to himself, he must say, that if the borough was to be disfranchised only to give its elective rights to the hundred, he should prefer letting it return to its old corruption. He could not agree, that the franchise was
978Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the House might divide to all eternity before he would submit to have his object defeated.Mr. Tennyson
 stating it as his opinion, that the hon. and right hon. gentlemen were differing only about a question of punctilio.Mr. Stanley
 characterised the conduct of the hon. gentleman as that of a vexatious proceeding, to which he would not resort if he were out of office to-morrow; as it only tended to stop public business. He should take the sense of the House on the question itself, and he trusted that would be decisive.Mr. Peel
 said, that the object proposed on both sides of the House was, to cure the evil of bribery and corruption which had long prevailed in East Retford. He cautioned the House against transferring the bribery from one class of electors to another, and recommended the right of election to be confined to the resident freeholders.Mr. Rickford
 observed, that if the right hon. Secretary was sincere in his intention of giving this franchise to a considerable manufacturing town, in case Penryn should go to the hundreds, what could he gain by the clauses being brought up? If, after the course he (Mr. T.) had taken in this measure, he allowed "Bassetlaw" to stand in the bill, he should be disgraced in the eyes of the country.Mr. Tennyson
979 was on his legs, declaring that he would accept no compromise. If the hon. member would allow
979Mr. Secretary Peel
 did not think, without a fresh instruction to the committee, that the clauses could then be introduced into the bill.Mr. Tennyson
 recommended his hon. friend not to oppose the introduction of the clauses. He would rather see the bill thrown out than that it should pass as it was now framed. The public would then be assured, to whatever extent corruption might be carried, it would receive no punishment from that House.Sir J. Sebright
 thought there could be no objection to adopting the recommendation of the right hon. gentleman. He would allow "Bassetlaw" to stand in the bill, in order that it might be printed and re-committed.Lord Nugent
 thought that no injury could arise from delay. The hon. gentleman was not prepared with his clauses.Mr. Baring
 observed, that the House had the pledge of the right hon. gentleman's word, and more, the pledge of his character, that if the Penryn bill took another shape in the House of Lords, he would find the means of placing them in as advantageous a condition as before.Lord Nugent
 rose to contradict the statement that he was not prepared to bring up the clauses. He was perfectly prepared.Mr. Calvert
 felt as warmly in favour of his hon. friend's measure, as any member, but as they would not be placed in a worse situation, he recommended his lion, friend to allow the insertion of the clauses.Mr. S. Rice
 persisted in the view he had taken of the subject, and charged the right hon. gentleman with knowing perfectly well that it had been determined in the cabinet, that Penryn should not be disfranchised.Mr. Tennyson
980 replied, that, as far as he was acquainted with the matter, no such determination had been come to by the cabinet. He was not aware that the question had ever been put as to what course the members of the cabinet should pursue. After the late decision by a majority of 97, it seemed reasonable that the hon. member for Herts should have an opportunity of shewing in what shape he would present
980Mr. Peel
s. then proposed a further amendment, omitting all the latter part of the bill, and substituting a clause enacting, that the 40s.Mr. N. Calvert
 remarked, that such a course was irregular in this stage.The Speaker
 was not aware of any forms of the House which took a bill out of the hands of the member who brought it in, and being appealed to as to the day, he had naturally said, on this day six months.Mr. Tennyson
 observed, that the Chairman of the committee had no right to appeal to the hon. gentleman for the time.The Speaker
 admitted, that he had answered in a flippant way when he had proposed this day six months.Mr. Tennyson
992l.991l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.990l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.989988l.987l.986l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.985l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.984l.983982981, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill "to restrain the Circulation of Scottish Banknotes in England," said, that when he first gave notice of his intention to submit such a measure to the consideration of the House, he had little reason to expect that it would be necessary for him to enter into any lengthened or detailed observations. He conceived that, after what had passed in parliament, no one would dispute the absolute necessity of withholding from Scotland the privilege of circulating notes in England, when parliament had already withdrawn such privilege from bankers resident in England. That principle appeared to be so manifest, that it seemed
992l.991l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.990l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.989988l.987l.986l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.985l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.984l.983982981The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1012"Our popular government, perhaps, will render it difficult or dangerous for a minister to venture on so desperate an expedient as that of a voluntary bankruptcy; und though the House of Lords be altogether composed of proprietors of land, and the House of Commons chiefly, and consequently neither of them can be supposed to have great property in the funds, yet the connexions of the members may be so great with the proprietors as to render them more tenacious of public faith than prudence, policy, or even justice, strictly speaking, requires." And here followed a passage respecting our foreign relations, which he thought was worthy of particular attention,—"And perhaps, too, our foreign enemies may be so politic as to discover that our safety lies in despair, and may not therefore show the danger open and barefaced till it be inevitable. The balance of power in Europe, our forefathers and we, have deemed too unequal to be pre
10121011Inferno10101009l.l.l.l.l.1008l.l.d.s.100710061005"A nation, whose money decreases, is actually weaker and more miserable than another nation which possesses no more money, but is on the increasing hand. The alterations in the quantity of money are not immediately attended with proportionable alterations in the price of commodities: there is always an interval before matters be adjusted to their new situation; and this interval is as pernicious to industry when money is diminishing, as it is advantageous when it is increasing. The workman has not the same employment from the manufacturer, though he pays the same price for every thing in the market. The farmer cannot dispose of his corn and cattle, though he must pay the same rent to his landlord. The poverty, beggary, and sloth, which must ensue, are easily foreseen. But, in every king
100510041003"The exigencies and uses of money not lessening with its quantity, and it being in the same proportion to be employed and distributed still, so much as its quantity
1003l.l.l.l.l.1002s.1001l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1000s.s.s.s.999s.l.998s.s.s.997"That, coincident with the present system of currency, if not immediately owing to its effects, there has been a great and progressive increase in the manufactures, agriculture, commerce, population, and general wealth, of the country. Your committee are certainly not convinced that it is the suppression of one-pound notes that would affect the cash credits to the extent apprehended; but they are unwilling, without stronger proof of necessity, to run the risk of deranging, from any cause whatever, a system admirably calculated, in their opinion, to economize the use of capital, to excite and cherish a spirit of useful enterprise, and even to promote the moral habits of the people, by the direct inducements which it holds out, to the maintenance of a character for industry, integrity, and prudence."996l.s.995994993 said, that he always rose in that House with considerable embarrasment, and on this occasion he felt greater embarrassment than usual, when he recollected the magnitude and the difficulty of the subject with which he had to deal. The dry ness of the details, and the necessity of perpetual references to written documents, made him fear that he should not succeed in engaging their attention; but he would endeavour to deserve it by not wearying them unnecessarily either with the one or the other. The difficulties which must, at any time, attach to this subject, had been materially increased by the course which the right hon. gentleman had adopted; a course which, he must say, he thought rather unfair. The notice of the motion of the right hon. gentleman on the paper, was, for leave to
1012"Our popular government, perhaps, will render it difficult or dangerous for a minister to venture on so desperate an expedient as that of a voluntary bankruptcy; und though the House of Lords be altogether composed of proprietors of land, and the House of Commons chiefly, and consequently neither of them can be supposed to have great property in the funds, yet the connexions of the members may be so great with the proprietors as to render them more tenacious of public faith than prudence, policy, or even justice, strictly speaking, requires." And here followed a passage respecting our foreign relations, which he thought was worthy of particular attention,—"And perhaps, too, our foreign enemies may be so politic as to discover that our safety lies in despair, and may not therefore show the danger open and barefaced till it be inevitable. The balance of power in Europe, our forefathers and we, have deemed too unequal to be pre
10121011Inferno10101009l.l.l.l.l.1008l.l.d.s.100710061005"A nation, whose money decreases, is actually weaker and more miserable than another nation which possesses no more money, but is on the increasing hand. The alterations in the quantity of money are not immediately attended with proportionable alterations in the price of commodities: there is always an interval before matters be adjusted to their new situation; and this interval is as pernicious to industry when money is diminishing, as it is advantageous when it is increasing. The workman has not the same employment from the manufacturer, though he pays the same price for every thing in the market. The farmer cannot dispose of his corn and cattle, though he must pay the same rent to his landlord. The poverty, beggary, and sloth, which must ensue, are easily foreseen. But, in every king
100510041003"The exigencies and uses of money not lessening with its quantity, and it being in the same proportion to be employed and distributed still, so much as its quantity
1003l.l.l.l.l.1002s.1001l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1000s.s.s.s.999s.l.998s.s.s.997"That, coincident with the present system of currency, if not immediately owing to its effects, there has been a great and progressive increase in the manufactures, agriculture, commerce, population, and general wealth, of the country. Your committee are certainly not convinced that it is the suppression of one-pound notes that would affect the cash credits to the extent apprehended; but they are unwilling, without stronger proof of necessity, to run the risk of deranging, from any cause whatever, a system admirably calculated, in their opinion, to economize the use of capital, to excite and cherish a spirit of useful enterprise, and even to promote the moral habits of the people, by the direct inducements which it holds out, to the maintenance of a character for industry, integrity, and prudence."996l.s.995994993Sir James Graham
 said, he considered a paper currency not only cheap but useful. It had been objected to the paper system, that it had given rise to the wildest speculations. That was true to a certain extent; but then it should also be considered, that it had given rise to the most useful enterprise, which had given employment to thousands, and had realized large fortunes to many honourable and industrious individuals. He could not see, if the public were secured by proper regulations, from the dangers to be apprehended from what was called over-trading, where the danger was of making the trial, or rather of continuing that which had been already made, and had been on the whole successful. As to the danger of over-issues, he thought it was only imaginary, as long as the Bank of England had the power of contracting its issues at pleasure. Besides, when we talked of the danger of the issue of small notes, he would ask, what security did their abolition afford against the insolvency of private bankers? There was none he contended, which they might not have at the present moment, and with a small-note currency. On the whole, he thought that a paper currency, founded on a metallic basis, was that which the country required, and without which we could not go on, with such a weight of debt as the country had to bear.Mr. S. O' Brien
1019 said, the right hon. gentleman proposed to bring in a bill, the effect of which would be, to prevent the circulation of Scotch notes in England; and that measure he wished to introduce, after a committee had sat to inquire into the subject of the circulation of Scotland, and had recommended parliament not to interfere with that circulation.—The business of the Scotch banks was carried on in the same manner as those of London.—Their exchanges were regularly made twice a week; and the consequence was, that there could be no over-issue of paper. If that system was changed, the poor would be deprived of the power of investment of small sums, while, as it at present stood, it was prevented from becoming injurious, by the frequent exchanges among
1019Mr. Maberly
1027s.d.s.10261025l.l.l.l.10241023l.102210211020 said, he should not take up much time in delivering his opinion on the subject,, although it was undoubtedly one of the greatest importance. The original motion had been confined to a certain point; but the hon. baronet near him had gone into the discussion of the larger subject. He did not regret that the debate had thus taken a larger range, nor that the House had of late had frequent discussions upon this great question. It was to be recollected, that the charter of the Bank of England would, in a few years, expire, and it was time for them to sharpen their wits upon the important subject of banking, in order that they might be able to see which was the best course to be pursued, whether the system that was now in use in Scotland, and whether it would be advisable to introduce that system into England when the Bank charter was done away with here. After all that had been so plainly and dogmatically laid down on the subject of the currency, it was clear that there were no great questions on which most persons, both within and without those walls, were so completely, as it were, learning their lessons, as upon the questions of the circulation and the banking system. Indeed, he felt it necessary himself to speak with a degree of diffidence on the subject, when it appeared that as yet hardly any principle had been established, notwithstanding the opinions which had been given to the world, under the sanction of some men of great name,—Mr. Horner, for instance, and the right hon. gentleman opposite, who was certainly no ordinary authority. Indeed, when it was recollected, that it had been settled by a vote of that House, during a period when they were experiencing all the pressure of a long war, that within, a few months, and that, too, when
1027s.d.s.10261025l.l.l.l.10241023l.102210211020Mr. Baring
1033 was desirous that the matter should go to a committee. If the chancellor of the Exchequer did not
1033Mr. Bankes
10141013"nullum fere genus quod non tetigit, et nihil tetigit quod non ornavit." said, that, after the very able speech of his hon. friend,—a speech of which he might say 10141013"nullum fere genus quod non tetigit, et nihil tetigit quod non ornavit."Mr. Liddell
 suggested, that the debate should be adjourned.Mr. Bright
1028 said, he could not but consider the argument of the right hon. gentleman a most lame and impotent reply to the admirable speech of the hon. baronet (the member for Carlisle). At the same time, with the experience they had unfortunately had of the results of the inquiries of committees, he could by no means vote for the hon. baronet's amend-
1028Mr. Hudson Gurney
10321031 said, it had been long his lot to address the House on all the general subjects which the hon. baronet had touched upon with a rapid and lucid view; but he would not go into a discussion, on the present occasion, upon the depreciation of the currency, the conduct of the country banks, or the blunders, as an hon. member had described them, of the committees of 1810 and 1819. He regretted that he had not had the advantage that evening of hearing the speech of the chancellor of the Exchequer. It was, therefore, that he wished very shortly to state the grounds on which he should vote for the proposition of his right hon. friend, and most decidedly against the amendment. He agreed with the noble lord, in the general proposition, that provided no risk or inconvenience attended the proceeding, it was desirable to go into a committee on such subjects; for the more they were inquired into, the more should we increase the stock of our practical experience, the want of which had led to the errors we had committed, to the great detriment of the national prosperity. But he would ask, was there no risk in unset-ling the mind of the public, as to what was to be the future state of the currency? He had no hesitation in saying, that many questions must be brought under the consideration of such a committee, if it should be appointed, the discussion of which
10321031Mr. Huskisson
1018101710161015 said, that in his view of it, the whole tendency of the hon. baronet's speech resolved itself into a recommendation of a depreciated paper-currency. Then, he put it to the House, whether it would not be the more direct course for the hon. baronet to avow distinctly and at once what was his real object, and to bring it forward in a more tangible form. The hon. baronet had introduced a variety of extraneous topics, but no one who had attended to the course of his reasoning could fail to come to the conclusion, that the great end and aim of
1018101710161015Mr. Frankland Lewis
1030d.s.s.1029 said, he should not have risen, had it not been for a remark of the late Vice-president of the Board of Trade. He agreed with the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that the profit on one-pound notes was not of any consequence to the country bankers. But they had heard from the Vice-president of the Board of Trade, that the great pressure which was felt in the year 1825 was chiefly caused by the pressure of the country bankers on the Bank of England for gold. Now this was a statement which he felt himself called on to deny. The country bankers had done no more than any other men. They who held the paper of the
1030d.s.s.1029Sir M. W. Ridley
l.l.l. thought, that the Restriction act, and also the act of 1819, was a piece of injustice; but he did not, therefore, think, that they should now do another act of injustice, which they would do if they retraced their steps, and again depreciated the currency. He should, however, vote for the amendment of his hon. friend, on the simple ground, that it was worthy of inquiry, as a paper was so much cheaper than a metallic currency, whether it could not also be made as safe as a metallic one. He thought it was no argument, because a paper currency had failed under a bad system of banking, perhaps the worst that ever existed, that it must necessarily fail under a system, with proper regulations, and with all those checks and safeguards which might be devised. No step should be taken which added unnecessarily to the burthens of the country. An inquiry could do no harm; and if it ended in suggesting proper checks, the country might be able again to have a paper currency, which was to be wished, on account of its cheapness. The chancellor of the Exchequer had stated, that at present, the gold currency amounted to 22,000,000l.l.l.Lord Howick
1036l was sorry that this bill had been considered a private bill. The object of it was, to grant to the Archbishop of Canterbury power to appoint to an office in reversion, which he believed to be a mere sinecure. The Archbishop had a right to appoint the principal Registrar of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, and to put into the patent one, two or even three lives. Now, the late Archbishop had put into this office his three sons. One of them was lately dead; and the present Archbishop wished to insert a new life into the patent: but the two surviving sons of the late Archbishop refused to surrender their present patent, and so prevented the present Archbishop from inserting a new life in a new patent. The present Archbishop, therefore, came to the Mouse and asked it to enable him to add a third life to the two which were now inserted in the patent; the third life not taking any sham of the profits of the office until the death of the two present holders. By giving him that power, the House would, he believed, perpetuate an office which levied 29,0001036lMr. Hume
 contended, that this was strictly a private bill. It had already undergone a strict ordeal in the House of Lords. He should therefore oppose the postponement, especially as a public report had been made respecting the office to which it referred; which report stated, that the duties of the office were executed with precision and regularity, and did not recommend any reduction in the amount of fees paid to the officers.The Attorney-general
l thought, that the bill deserved the consideration of parliament, if it were true that the office, of which it was intended to give away the appointment, cost the public 29,000lMr. D. W. Harvey
 recommended that the third reading of the bill should be deferred for a week, on the ground, that further information should be laid before the House before the measure was passed.Mr. Wynn
 gave notice that, on Monday, he would move that "the Petition be referred to a Committee."Mr. Gordon
 was satisfied, that the reclaiming of the bogs and waste lands of Ireland, while it would afford, in its progress, employment to a considerable portion of the population, would finally be attended with the most beneficial results. As a sincere friend to Ireland, his most anxious wish was, that means should be devised for effecting the object contemplated by the petition.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
1048ll104710461045 said, he could assure
1048ll104710461045Mr. Secretary Peel
 complained of the duty levied upon coals, imported into Ireland, being doubled since the time of the Union.Mr. O'Brien
ll1050 presented a petition from upwards of 1,400 merchants, bankers, and inhabitants of London, complaining of the present condition and management of Smithfield, and the places appropriated to the slaughtering of cattle. The hon. gentleman entered into an examination of the present condition of Smithfield Market, and observed that its present situation rendered it objectionable upon several grounds. The first was, the manner in which the cattle were driven, with blows and execrations, through the streets of the metropolis, to the great danger of its inhabitants. The second objection arose from the system of driving the cattle into London on a Sunday evening, and keeping them penned up, without food or water, and in a state of the greatest torment, until Monday. Another objection to the present state of Smithfield was found in the
ll1050Mr. R. Gordon
l1051 said, that though he was in the city six days in the
l1051Mr. Alderman Thompson
1052 said, that the inconvenience and danger of driving cattle through the streets of London must be apparent to every one. On a market-day, a man might as well walk in a country cattle-fair as from Ludgate-hill to Lombard-street. He believed that the opposition to the removal of Smithfield-market arose principally from persons who, because they had kept public-houses in the neighbourhood for some years, fancied that they had chartered
1052Mr. Martin
 said, he certainly could not congratulate any gentleman upon his task, who, at that late period of the session, should undertake to carry a bill through parliament, which should remove Smithfield-market, provide another, and settle all the claims for compensation of the parties concerned. He did, however, think that the proper course would be, to give notice of a motion for the appointment of a committee, and not make such a motion then. He had read the petition, and thought that a committee ought to be appointed to inquire into the statements it contained. For instance, the grounds upon which the nice calculation respecting the loss of meat from bruises, seemed to him to be worth inquiring into. He had received a letter from the master butchers, who were in the greatest alarm, and begged of him to oppose the prayer of this petition. He had assured those gentlemen, that nothing should be done without giving an opportunity to every party of being heard. It was impossible to look at the state of Smithfield-market and not say, that it would be very unfortunate if it must be continued. He did not consider it an objection, that these individuals had come forward with a view to their own private interests. Government, in this country, could not take charge of such institutions; they must be left to individuals as a great many others were; and if any set of individuals could effect a great public convenience, of course they ought to be remunerated for it. At the same time the rights of individuals ought to be taken care of; and it would be better if the hon. member would give notice of a motion for the appointment of a committee.Mr. Secretary Peel
l10571056sslad captanduml1055 said, that the question, as stated, seemed simply to him—whether the public should or should not be compelled to pay their publick and private debts in a currency of higher value than that in which they had contracted them. It was a question between the payers of taxes and the receivers of them. He had himself no trading connexion with the issue of paper in question; but he thought its continuance essential to the well-being of the country. His hon. friend, (the member for Radnorshire) was a political economist. He should like to hear that hon. member explain how it was, that there were at the same time masses of capital lying idle in the country, and millions of people out of employment?—How was it that the labourer was in rags, or naked, and the loom silent, because no market for its products could be found? The solution was, that a link in the great chain of national prosperity was wanting—the link of credit. The country banker, who formed that link, was almost wholly driven out and destroyed. The currency in circulation, he maintained, was not sufficient for the purposes of trade; and he was sur-
l10571056sslad captanduml1055Mr. Davenport
1059slslslsl1058 declared, that upon the best consideration he could give the subject, he felt himself bound to vote against the proposition of the hon. member for Carlisle. As the Bank restriction of 1797 had been alluded to, and as he was one of the few members then in the House who had participated in the discussions on that measure, he hoped he should be excused if be said something respecting it. When that measure was proposed, the objection that had been made to it was, that if an extensive issue of paper were carried into effect, it must necessarily depreciate the standard of our currency. That anticipation had been verified by the event. The standard had been silently and gradually depreciated. It had been in vain contended, that all bad governments, from the time of the French committee of Public Safety back to the reign of Louis the 14th, and up to the Roman republic after the first Punic war, had adopted similar expedients. The arguments which he and others had used against the measure were of no avail; for an immense majority were in favour of it. It was carried; and it led to results glorious, no doubt, to our arms, but ruinous to our finances. He regretted much, that when the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) and others were endeavouring to find a remedy for the system in 1819, they had not resorted, when they found the currency so depreciated, to that of altering the standard. Such a measure would have prevented the ruin of the farmer, the tradesman, and the artisan;
1059slslslsl1058Mr. Denison
10671066 said, he cordially concurred in the observation of an hon. member, that it would ill become them to speak too dogmatically upon matters of such great moment as those which the House was now engaged in considering. The facts to be collected were so numerous, so widely spread, affected the interests of so many, and were composed of such various elements, that that man must indeed entertain great confidence in his own judgment, who could make up his mind conclusively, on the whole bearing of the question. The hon. gentleman had alluded to the resolutions which parliament had come to, as a proof that they should abate their confidence; and in that also he agreed with the hon. gentleman. But while he admitted those positions, he must say that nothing could give rise to more serious evils, than keeping the public mind in a perpetual state of uncertainty, as to the intentions of the legislature. If they resolved at one time that the issue of small notes should cease, and at another time that they should continue,—if they went on vacillating between one course and another, and finally gave up the principle
10671066Mr. Secretary Peel
10951094ss1093ss10921091109010891088108710861085dss10841083108210811080 said:—It is not now, Sir, for the first time, the right hon. gentleman, will allow me to remind him, that propositions for inquiry into the character of our own measures, and into questions of essential interest, have been met by statements from the Treasury-bench, such as he now makes, and by attempts to show, from official returns and tables of comparative consumption, how great was the general prosperity of the people, and how great the danger of interfering with so much happiness. But, I remind him also, that since the mistaken and unfortunate measure of 1819, those statements have, in every instance, proved either to have been fallacious when made, or have been instantly followed by reverses all but fatal to the country. I place, therefore, no reliance on the result the right hon. gentleman would draw from his tables, nor do I think he is himself satisfied of the accuracy of that result. He purposed to contradict, by these tables, the view I had taken, on a former occasion, of the existing distress of the country; but I said nothing of the consumption of candles, whether of wax or tallow, or of starch or vinegar, or any commodities of that nature. I spoke of agriculture: I told him of the condition of the farmer, of the poverty of the trader, of finances embarrassed, of sufferings pressing on the labourer, of gaols bursting with criminals. The right hon. gentleman must feel, that if he had given to my opinions a direct contradiction, instead of a constructive denial: if he had at once boldly affirmed, that the farmer was prosperous, the trader content, the finances flourishing, and the labourer employed, he would feel that such assurance would be opposed to the experience of every member who heard him.10951094ss1093ss10921091109010891088108710861085dss10841083108210811080Mr. Attwood
109810971096 said, that at that late hour he should not think himself excusable in trespassing longer upon the time of the House, than was necessary for him briefly to express his sentiments in support of the amendment of the hon. baronet, confining himself simply to the expression of those sentiments, without-entering on the details, which were certainly important, but to which at that time of the night, and after a debate so protracted, he could not venture to trust himself. He could not avoid saying, however, that he considered the hon. baronet to have done a service to his country by the statement he had made on a subject of such importance to its vital interests: and he was surprised, notwithstanding the lateness of the hour, and the protracted debate, when he considered the ability that had been displayed by the hon. baronet, and the information that had been brought to the discussion of the question by every hon. gentleman that had spoken upon it, and especially by the hon. member who had just sat down, who had presented for their consideration subjects well worthy of their best attention, and which few were capable of so well laying before them, that the House should not have displayed more patience in listening to the debate. Confident he was, that, if the House did its duty by attending to the statements of those hon. members, they would hesitate before they opposed the attempt to procure an inquiry, which was proved, more than ever, to be now necessary to the well-being of the country. There were two things in which he considered the right hon. Secretary for the Home Department to have been peculiarly infelicitous. He was unfortunate in having his name originally connected with this measure, which had been productive of more positive suffering, more unmixed misery, more breaking-up of the sources of wealth throughout the country, than any other that had ever been devised. It was true that this bill had not been adopted: but, whenever there had been an approach to its completion, whenever they
109810971096Sir F. Burdett
 called upon the right hon. gentleman to explain what he meant by imputing to him the promulgation of doctrines shameless and unprincipled.Mr. Attwood
 replied, that the right hon. gentleman was the advocate of doctrines far more calculated to promote fraud, and lead to bankruptcy, than any which he supported.Mr. Attwood
 said, he should be glad to know who were the merchants and bankers that had signed this petition. In his opinion, there was a strong feeling in the city against it.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
 stated, that these markets were the property of the city of London, and any disposal of the property of others involved grave consideration. The subject was one that should be left to private speculation.Mr. Spottiswoode
103910381037 rose, in pursuance of notice, to lay before the House a petition from Dublin relative to the unemployed poor of Ireland. He began by expressing his regret and surprise, that not a single minister of the Crown was present, although he had some time since intimated his intention of bringing under the consideration of the House this evening a subject of so much importance to Ireland. He was bound to presume, however, that matters of greater interest
103910381037Mr. Brownlow
1054dsll rose to move "for leave to bring in a Bill to Consolidate and Amend the Laws relating to Savings Banks." In bringing forward this motion, he felt it unnecessary to apprise the House of the importance of the subject. He need only remind them, that whilst on the one hand it embraced the interests of nearly half a million of that class of his majesty's subjects who were peculiarly entitled to the protection of parliament, it involved, on the other hand, a consideration of nearly 16,000,0001054dsllMr. Pallmer
 advocated the propriety of giving employment to the people of Ireland. He felt himself compelled to differ from a part of the statement made by his hon. friend the member for Londonderry; for he could point out to his hon. friend, a population in Ireland, the state of which would be disgraceful to a waste in Africa. He knew that hundreds of families in that country even in the neighbourhood of county towns—the tenants of individuals who were as remarkable for their attention to their English, as they were for their disregard of their Irish tenants,—were plunged in the deepest distress. It had been argued, that no assistance of the description asked for should be granted to Ireland, because the capital thrown into that country would be wasted on jobs. Now, however good, as a general principle, it might be, not to advance the public money for such purposes, still he would say, that Ireland was a country to which that general principle was not applicable. He asked no more for Ireland, than that the same assistance which had been granted to Scotland should be extended to the sister country. The present was the moment when that assistance would produce infinite advantage. Let the House place what guards on the public bounty that to them might seem proper: but he called on them to give that assistance to Ireland which would be the means of rescuing her population from the utmost misery.Colonel Trench
1041 said, as an Irish member of parliament he would say, that the statements contained in the speech of the two hon. members, and in the petition, were, to say the least of them, greatly exaggerated. It was certainly true, that there was a great quantity of distress in Ireland; but this arose chiefly from politics; to which, unfortunately, the people of that country were so devoted as to have become forgetful of their domestic interests and concerns. But, the actual condition of the country at large was very different from what it had been represented. The fact was, that, at that moment, no country was making more rapid progress towards wealth and prosperity than Ireland. Her trade had rapidly increased, and the facilities which steam-navigation afforded, had promoted in a most important degree the progress of improvement in Ireland. The condition of the greater part of the population was daily and hourly advancing towards improvement. The petition ended by calling on the government to advance a large sum of money to employ the population, and proposed the enactment of a general enclosure act, and a drainage bill. Both these means of redress were impracticable. The uncultivated lands were the property of private individuals, who would retain them as eagerly, as they would do the best lands in the country. As to a general drainage, the report of the commissioners on bogs, had certainly recommended such a measure: but even were the bogs of Ireland drained, and the waste land reclaimed, it would not be worth the trouble and expense. He himself possessed some hundreds of acres of land of that description; and having reclaimed a few of them, he was by no means inclined to repeat the experiment. The fact was, that such land would not repay the one-tenth of the money expended on its reclamation. He would not have the people of Ireland look forward to such a wild speculation as a means of improving their condition. It could be proved beyond all doubt, that Ireland was rapidly improving, and he was confident that, ere long, she would become a source
1041Mr. G. Dawson
1049 said, that the fact, he believed, was undisputed, that Ireland presented the frightful calamity of an excessive unemployed population. Various suggestions had, from time to time, been made, with a view of improving the condition of the people. He agreed in many of the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Louth, and the right hon. Secretary, that it would be unwise in all cases to grant public money to Ireland, but that it might be advantageous on some occasions so to do. Money, he thought
1049Mr. Moore
lll said, that so far from the country having increased in prosperity since the Union, it had been ruined, and was miserable to a degree, almost beyond credibility. The decline of the revenue proved the state of Ireland. Mr. Foster, when chancellor of the Exchequer for that country, had stated the revenue to be seven millions; last year it was only 3,400,000lllMr. H. Grattan
1040l corroborated every word which had been uttered by his hon. friend, respecting the wide-spreading wretchedness of the Irish population. He had himself endeavoured, some time ago, to apply a modified system of poor-laws to this evil; but he was traduced and misrepresented, and compelled to abandon his intention. Nothing had been done to mitigate the afflictions of Ireland; and he blamed not the English and Scotch members, who were only doing their duty in endeavouring to meet the evil of the sojourn amongst them of these miserable Irish paupers. It was proved, so far back as the committee of 1819, that a large portion of these wretched beings were endeavouring to live upon boiled nettles; arid, in 1816, nearly sixty-five thousand were suffering under fever and famine. The committee of 1823 proved, that, there were two million five hundred out of employment in a surface of five million of acres; which was nearly half the land of Ireland. He gratefully acknowledged the assistance which this country had generously bestowed upon Ireland, in remitting, at the crisis of her sufferings, so large a sum as 300,0001040lMr. James Grattan
ll1044 said, he agreed with his hon. friend, the member for Derry, as to the general impolicy and utter hopelessness of the attempt, on the part of any government, to employ the population by advances of public money, and was convinced that any such attempt would ultimately occasion far more misery than it would prevent. He could not, however, assent to the proposition, that in no case it was expedient that the government should, by a moderate expenditure of public money, encourage individuals to invest their capital in enterprises of public utility. That was the object of this petition. Nobody could doubt that it was desirable to repress the vain hope, that it was possible to employ one or two millions of Irishmen. He did not go further than to contend, that within moderate limits it might be expedient for the sake of occasional employment, to advance small sums in order to encourage the investment of great capitals by individuals. But, in this case, the petitioners only asked the House to remove those impediments which the state of the law and the circumstances of Ireland interposed in the way of the cultivation of the country, and which required not the expenditure of a pound of the public money, but simply an act of parliament. The petitioners in the first instance, recommended, that roads should be opened to those tracts in the western and southern coasts of Ireland, which would give access to the fisheries; and he could speak from his personal observation, as well as on the authority of the reports of the engineers, that never was money expended which had returned such great interest. Tracts of mountain, formerly waste, were now in a high state of tillage; and parts of the coast where fish were never caught, had become scenes of active and animated industry. As he had been one of the commissioners who had inquired into the state of Ireland, the impression was the stronger upon his mind. He would state, for the information of the House, that no fact was better established, than that no serious impediment, cither financial or agricultural, prevented the reclamation of the bogs. The commissioners had employed ten engineers for four or five years; who during that time were engaged in surveying the waste lands of Ireland. They were employed, in different parts of the country, and at a distance from each other, but in the end, without
ll1044Mr. Leslie Foster
1062ll1061l1060data asked, what it was they were called on to do? To find two millions and a half of gold circulation. He denied that they were called on to contract the currency. Whatever might be the present amount of our circulating medium, be it sixty-five millions or more, all that was requisite was, in particular districts, to find, for the small notes to be withdrawn, a compensating quantity of gold circulation, aided by notes of a higher value. We already possessed a gold circulation of two-and-twenty millions. Notwithstanding the mystery which had been thrown over the subject, there were 1062ll1061l1060dataMr. Leslie Foster
 thought it would be advantageous, if a system similar to that of Paris was introduced in London. Every capital in Europe but our own, had its slaughter houses without the city.Mr. P. Thompson
1099 rose to explain. He
1099Mr. Huskisson
 said, that the doctrines advocated by the hon. member were calculated to promote fraud, and lead to national bankruptcy.Mr. Huskisson
 suggested, that there was no occasion for a committee to inquire into the inconvenience of driving cattle through the streets, because that was well known to every body. Let the hon. member bring in a bill at once for the removal of Smithfield-market.Mr. Robinson
abattoirs said, that the subject had occupied public attention during the whole of the spring, nor was it so little known as the hon. alderman seemed to suppose. It was not proposed by the petitioners to interfere with the interests of the corporation of London; their object being only to remove a most offensive nuisance. He had himself been in Paris in the course of the last winter, and could bear testimony to the excellent plan on which the abattoirsSir H. Parnell
106510641063 said, he was at a loss to know on what grounds the hon. member could pronounce a measure to be so beneficial to England, and then argue that it ought not to be extended to Ireland and Scotland. He might be a good authority upon the affairs of Ireland, but he took too much upon himself when he pretended to pronounce the time at which the notes might, with propriety, be withdrawn from Scotland. He should give his vote under the impression for the continuance of the one-pound notes in circulation. Were a committee granted, the question of depreciation should not be discussed. Had he been in the House in 1819, he should certainly have wished for a higher standard than was at that time adopted, and by which a great deal of inconvenience would
106510641063Sir J. Wrottesley
1042 said, what had just fallen from the hon. gentleman recalled to his recollection a speech which he had heard from a member in the Irish parliament, and the facetious reply which it provoked. An hon. gentleman got up in the Irish House of Commons, and like the hon. gentleman opposite, gave a most glowing description of the resources of Ireland; when he had concluded another hon. member started up, and said—"I really imagined, while listening to the hon. member's description of the wealth of this country, that all the half-pence in Ireland had been converted into guineas; but, on putting my hand in my pocket and taking out a few, I found, to my disappointment, that they still continued to be half-pence." The hon. member had given them a fan-
1042Sir J. Newport
 contended that the charges against the Select Vestry were unfounded, and had originated in prejudice.Sir T. Fremantle
s.l.1121 thought that the objection suggested by the learned doctor, on the ground that an election, such as that
s.l.1121Sir F. Burdett
 said, that the hon. gentlemen opposite had displayed a very earnest kind of eloquence on behalf of the select vestry, and he was not surprised at it, as they were, in fact, their own clients, being members of that body themselves. He was, however, notwithstanding all that had been said, as much opposed to the principle as ever; being well assured, that such power could never be exercised with satisfaction or advantage to the parish. It was asserted, that none of the allegations against their management were proved; But this he must deny, as several had been so far substantiated as fully to warrant a conclusion against the system generally. He was astonished to hear it asserted, that the inhabitants were satisfied, when it was known that five thousand had petitioned for the bill. Would it be affirmed that they were not parishioners? Although the duke of Portland was not a personal friend to the measure, five hundred of his tenants had given it their support. It was monstrous, that this irresponsible body, possessing a power so abhorrent from the spirit of the British constitution, should be suffered any longer to exist. The vestry said, "It was avowed that this bill, if carried, was only the first of a series of attacks against the system of select vestries generally." He, for one, avowed such an intention, and was about to give his vote in hopes of reforming the general frame of those bodies.Mr. Hobhouse
l. said, that, in laying these estimates before the committee, he should be ready to give every information in his power, as to the grounds on which they were framed. There was, however, one item to which he wished more particularly to call the attention of the committee, as he thought it related to a subject in which hon. members must feel considerable interest. He alluded to an item of 7,000l.Mr. Dawson
1124 said, that, although when he first brought the subject of the library under the consideration of the House, his views had been misrepresented, and much sarcasm had been thrown on the project, he was convinced that it was a proper object on which to lay out a portion of the public money. He should be glad to see a sum of money voted in the present session for so desirable a purpose. He could wish the library to be open even when parliament was not sitting, for the convenience of members, who, when casually in town, might not
1124Mr. S. Rice
 thought the House of Commons ought not to be without a library. It would, however, in making a selection of books, be as well to wait until next year, because probably they might then obtain, at a moderate price, duplicates of valuable works from the British Museum.Mr. Bankes
l. was of opinion, that a larger remuneration should be granted to the librarian, and entirely approved of the formation of a library.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
datal.l.l.1125l. said, he felt himself bound to answer the question, from the double capacity in which he stood, of commissioner and chancellor of the Exchequer. It was true, that at first, 500,000datal.l.l.1125l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1128 said, that with regard to regret for the expenditure that had been incurred, that regret would have been better expressed before the works were begun. To complain now was to complain at the wrong end of the business. He must repeat, that, of all the buildings he had ever seen, Windsor-castle was the most magnificent, and the best adapted to its purpose. It ought to be recollected, that Windsor-castle was the only palace ever erected for the king of England. Other palaces had been presented to the king of England by his subjects, or bought and improved for his use; but Windsor-castle was the only palace in this country that had ever been built as such. As to the furniture of Windsor-castle, the fact was, that there had actually been none in it. His late majesty being anxious, during the long war, to avoid increasing the pressure upon the country, had forborne to add any furniture to that already in the castle. This abstinence imposed on his late majesty's successor the necessity of
1128The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had merely stated, that, in consequence of a long and expensive war, his late majesty had refrained from purchases which were oven necessary, and the House had seen how the hon. gentleman had turned this expression. He was sure it was not necessary for him, in that House, to speak in defence of his sovereign; he was sure that in that country, the people entertained much juster notions of their sovereign, than the hon. member had expressed. The hon. member might charge him with keeping up unnecessary splendor, but it ought to be recollected, that his majesty had done much for the country, and that he at least deserved to be spoken of respectfully. [Cheers.] The hon. gentleman had chosen the very night on which the question of his majesty's splendid gift to the country—he meant the library of the late king—had been called to the attention of the House, to indulge in these observations. If, however, that gift, and the expenses of his majesty's palaces were set against each other, there would be found little charge upon the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1129 said, that, he could not hear what had fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen, without entering
1129Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, there had undoubtedly been a considerable expenditure with respect to the Penitentiary, but the building being now completed, he thought it would be improper to abandon it. In proportion as capital punishment was mitigated, it became necessary to find the means of secondary punishment. The Penitentiary afforded one of those means. The establishment was conducted on the most economical principles. It was superintended by a committee of twenty-one gentlemen, who devoted their time to that purpose gratuitously.Mr. Secretary Peel
l.l. said, that 500,000l.l.Mr. Maberly
l.1131 said, that all prisoners could not be sent to the hulks, but only those who were strong enough to work. He thought it would be as erroneous to abandon altogether the hope of reforming prisoners, as it was to attach too much importance to it. As affording an opportunity of steering a middle course between the two extremes, the Penitentiary was highly useful.l.1131Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that this was not a new grant; a sum was formerly granted by government for the support of the clergy of the Church of England in Canada, but it had of late years been transferred to this society, who applied large funds of their own to the same purpose. In Nova Scotia twenty-eight thousand of the inhabitants, were members of the Church of England, which was a greater number than any one body of dissenters in that colony, He considered the assistance rendered in this way by government, for their instruction, well applied.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that when he looked at the square towers at the side, and at the wretched inverted egg-cup, at the top of Buckingham-palace, he must concur with his hon. friend, that it was a disgrace to all who were concerned in it.Colonel Davies
 said, that, unless he could get some assurance that the grant would be reduced next year, he must support the amendment.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he could not give any assurance of that kind.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had great doubts as to the policy of continuing this grant, which was applied exclusively to the ministry of the Church of England. A large majority of the North American colonists were dissenters, and it had lately been resolved by one of the legislative assemblies, by a majority of thirty-five votes, that the Church of England was not the predominant religion. He therefore thought it should be submitted to a committee of that House, to decide whether the vote should be continued, and if continued, whether the money should not be distributed according to the religious circumstances of the population of the colonies.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, he would support the grant, as he was unwilling to leave the clergy to the generosity of the public.Mr. O'Neil
1133 remarked, that the hon. gentleman, as a member of the Finance-committee, must know how inconvenient it would be to have the course they had chalked out for themselves broken in upon, for the purpose of discussing the employment of the public money for religious missions in North America. The subject in itself was very important, but it could not be usefully undertaken by the Finance-committee; nor
1133The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 insisted that the grievances complained of were wholly imaginary. The rates were less, on an average of ten years, than they had ever been, and the vestry contemplated a further reduction. The parishioners were in general satisfied with the decisions of the vestry in cases of appeals.Colonel Baillie
1119l.l.l.l.l.l. said, that the hon. baronet had been misinformed in many of the statements he had made. He had stated the parish debt at 227,0001119l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Ross
1122 rose, for the purpose of presenting four petitions from Staffordshire, praying that a law may be enacted for the prohibition of the practice of Bull-baiting. After the late member for Galway (Mr. R. Martin) had succeeded in obtaining a bill for the better protection of cattle, magistrates, generally, for some time, acted on the impression, that a bull came within the term cattle. The court of King's Bench, however, had come to a contrary decision; and all the Judges had given it as their opinion, that bulls were not cattle, and, consequently, that they were not protected from being baited. It was decided, that cows and steers, of the age of two years, were cattle; but, that the adult male did not come within the description. This refinement of the court of law, he did not understand; and if Mr. Martin had not thought that his bill would put an end to the practice of Bull-baiting, he would have introduced a clause for the purpose, that it might never be looked upon as a matter of doubt. On the question itself, he had great doubt whether it would be wise in the legislature to put an
1122Mr. Littleton
 said, it was of very great importance to have a library to refer to.Mr. Bright
 supported the original motion, but did not mean thereby to make the episcopal church the dominant party in the colony.Mr. Labouchere
 followed on the same side. He said, he recollected when the practice was so prevalent, that in one day there were three Bull-baits in the cathedral church-yard of Wells. No legal mode of preventing it was available; as he was told that the people had a prescriptive right to bait bulls there on one day in the year. He was happy, however, to learn, that, from the influence of public opinion, the cruel practice had ceased altogether in Wells.Mr. Benett
 said, if he thought that the withdrawal of half the grant would leave the clergy of the Church of England destitute, he would not support the amendment, but he could not think that the members of that Church would refuse to provide for their clergy if left to themselves.Mr. Monck
 said, he wished well to the society, and hoped it would increase, but he did not think that it required any addition from government for the object mentioned. It was clear the members of the Church of England in these colonies were the minority, and he did not see why they should not pay for their own religious instruction, as well as other bodies of Christians.Mr. Monck
 denied that he took the House by surprise, for he had given notice of his objection last year.Mr. Hume
l.1130 said, he had intended to speak of the king with no disrespect, but only to regret the taste which he had displayed. If, however, he had said any thing which could be construed into dis
l.1130Mr. Hume
 asked, whether that establishment was intended to be given up. It had been admitted last year, that it had not answered the purpose for which it was built.Mr. Hume
 thought this a fit subject for the consideration of the Finance-committee, or some other that might be appointed for the purpose. He would therefore move, that the vote be postponed for fourteen days, to allow time to have it examined.Mr. Hume
l. approved of the formation of a library, and thought it ought to be kept open constantly. He was highly pleased with the conduct of Mr. Spiller, the librarian, who received only 100l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1120l. denied that the annual revenue of the parish was only 100,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1120l.Mr. Hume
l. objected to the grant. The Society had been a long time established, and for years used to receive a small grant from government, for the support of missionary clergy of the Church of England, but of late years it got this large sum, and had received altogether 145,000l.Mr. Hume
 said, he had never objected to the king's having a suitable palace. The only question was whether, after all, he would have one. The palace at Buckingham-house was disgraceful to every one connected with it. The money which had been laid out upon it, and the manner in which the money had been expended, were equally censurable. Adverting to what the right hon. gentleman had stated of the forbearance of his late majesty in furnishing Windsor-castle, he thought the moderate expense of the late reign was more suited to the simple and chaste old English character, than the course which had been since pursued.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.1127l.l. could not permit the hon. gentleman's statement to pass without entering his protest against it. It was mighty well for an hon. member to talk of a splendid residence for the king of the country. The hon. member had said, that no one would object to the expense that had been incurred. There were millions who would object to it. At a time when bread could scarcely be found for a large portion of our population, it was unjustifiable to lavish such sums upon such purposes. The expense, within the last four years, of Buckingham-palace and Windsor-castle would not be paid with 1,200,000l.l.l.1127l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l. begged to know when there was to be an end to these alterations? 'When they were in their prosperity and had a god-send, they gave part of it, 500,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 objected to the bill, as he thought such an election annually would be productive of periodical tumult and disturbance, and he did not think any blame attributable to the present vestry.Dr. Phillimore
 said, he was the last man to sanction any unnecessary expense; but he must express his admiration of the solid and excellent manner in which the repairs of Windsor-castle had been e fleeted.Mr. R. Colborne
l.1117 contended, that no case had been made out against the present Vestry. After the books for the last twenty-two years had been examined, certain gentlemen had found that more money had been expended than they were pleased to think necessary; but that fact did not at all show that the Select Vestry were unworthy of
l.1117Mr. Astell
 supported the prayer of the petitioners. As even the hon. member himself had admitted that the practice was brutal and brutalizing, the sooner it was put an end to the better.Mr. W. Smith
 said, the fact was, that Windsor-castle had been left too long without repair. Nothing could be more gratifying than the sight of what had been done. He could not adequately express his admiration of the identity of effect which had been produced between the old and the new part of the structure. It was quite surprising that so much had been accomplished with the means. The money that had been already voted, however, was not, in his opinion, sufficient to do what ought to be done. Looking at the fair degree of splendor which ought to belong to the principal palace of the Sovereign of this country, he hoped parliament would not abandon the undertaking until it should be completed. No one could say that the money hitherto granted had not been well applied.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, he had heard with great pleasure the eulogium bestowed on Mr. Spiller. The duties imposed on the librarian were scantily remunerated. He, however, had never heard any complaint from that individual. He believed that, with the exception of a fortnight in the year, the library was open to every member.The Speaker
 contended, that, for the sake of the peace and quiet of the parish, it was necessary that the bill should be passed.Sir E. Owen
 presented a similar petition from West Bromwich. He entirely concurred in the prayer of the petition, and, though he was not prepared with any practical measure, he thought that the legislature might interfere with effect to prevent these barbarous and brutal sports.Sir James Mackintosh
 concurred in what had fallen from his hon. colleague, being quite sure that the increase of moral and religious feeling would shortly put an end to Bull-baiting, without recourse to a legislative enactment.Sir J. Wrottesley
 said, that the labour of Mr. Spiller in the library had become so great, that it would be necessary for the House to grant him some assistance.Sir M. W. Ridley
1126l. confirmed the statement of his right hon. friend. Not a single shilling had been wastefully expended; not a stone had been placed which was afterwards withdrawn. Every thing had gone steadily and regularly forward, and in the best possible manner. It was the unexpected rottenness of some of the timbers which had so much enhanced the expense. On one occasion, a ceiling of one of the rooms had given way; and had there not fortunately been workmen on the spot, the whole north side would, in all probability, have come down. There was every reason to suppose that no further sum would be required for furniture than that stated in the estimate. There must undoubtedly have been a much greater outlay on that account, had not all the ornamental furniture, the candelabra, &c, been removed from Carlton-house, and carried to Windsor. The 50,0001126l.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that the structure of Buckingham-palace, which the hon. gentleman had called a disgrace to all who were concerned in the erection of it, had nevertheless found admirers. He would venture to say, that when it was completed, it would be pronounced any thing but a disgrace to those who had superintended its erection. The same thing had been said of Regent-street; but what did people say of it now? As to the site of the palace, it was not the best possible, but it was chosen because it would not interfere with the conveniences of the people. It was at first proposed to build at Kensington-gardens, but that would have encroached on the comforts of the public. The same objection was thought fatal to the proposal to build the palace at the edge of the Green-park.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, it did not appear that the money had been misapplied. He would therefore support the grant.Sir R. Inglis
 concurred in all that had been said on the subject, and cited the case of Waterford, in which the brutal practice had been terminated by the resolution of the mayor of that city.Sir J. Newport
 observed, that it would be great injustice to a very useful body to have this grant withheld, and that it would be unfair to take the House by surprise on this vote.Sir T. D. Acland
l.l. said, he was as anxious as any body to avoid the evil of a popular election; and was willing to raise the qualification of a voter to 50l.l.Sir T. Baring
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1118l.l. said, that the hon. gentleman was altogether ignorant of what had passed in the committee, and could not possibly know how far a case had been made out. He was himself acquainted with many members of the Select Vestry, and entertained respect for them individually, while he refused them his confidence as a public body. Their gross extravagance was proved by the fact, that the parish under their management had incurred the enormous debt of 227,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1118l.l.Sir T. Baring
1205l.1204 regretted that the hon. gentleman had not confined himself to a mere statement of the questions which he intended to ask, instead of having introduced a mass of observations and comments. He would answer the hon. gentleman's three questions in a plain and distinct manner. In answer to the first question, as to the forts given up, he had to state, that before the arrival of Don Miguel, it was determined by the British government—all fear of the invasion of Portugal having been removed—that the
1205l.1204Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he had heard with great satisfaction the declaration of the right hon. gentleman, that the British government, as well as the other governments of Europe, had suspended all diplomatic intercourse with the present rulers of Portugal. Such a suspension amounted to a declaration, that the present chief of that country was a rebel and an usurper, and to an approbation of the noble efforts of those faithful Portuguese, who had taken up arms against that atrocious usurpation, in defence of the cause of legitimate authority and constitutional liberty. He fervently prayed for the success of that glorious resistance pronounced to be lawful by the unanimous voice of Europe. Whatever might he his opinion about the moment chosen for our evacuation of Portugal, he rejoiced, on one account, that it had occurred so early. We had been told in the last and present year, that the Portuguese people were enamoured of servitude; that they loved even the despotism of Don Miguel; that England had imposed a constitution on them, and crammed it down their throats. The people of Portugal had now belied those assertions. Since the departure of the British army, they had risen to assert their liberty, to destroy tyranny, to overthrow usurpation, and to maintain the authority of their lawful prince. Even, if fortune should not crown their efforts, (which, God forbid), they had done enough to vindicate their character, and to justify that interposition of England, which was indeed no more than the bare observance of treaties, but which seemed to be obnoxious to many in this country, merely because that observance incidentally led us to give countenance and help to attempts made by a monarch to give liberty to his subjects. Events seemed as if they had been disposed for the express purpose of illustrating the impartial fidelity with which England had observed her engagements to Portugal.Sir J. Macintosh
1206 said, he wished to
1206Mr. Secretary Peel
l.1207 said, he rose for the purpose of moving for the continuance of the existing Duties on Sugar for another year. During the early part of the session, attempts had been repeatedly made to revise the existing law, and to make some arrangement, with respect to the sugar duties, which would be more satisfactory to all the parties concerned. It was unnecessary for him to enter into the details of the various plans which were proposed to effect this object, since none of them had been found to conciliate the approbation of those for whose benefit they were intended, and, as against all of them substantial objections might be urged. To some of them he was not indisposed to give his support; but, as they went to produce a material reduction of duty, and as none of the arrangements held out the slightest expectation of repairing, until a distant period, the great loss which the revenue was likely to sustain, under these circumstances, he had deemed it most prudent to propose the continuance of those duties for another session. The House must be aware of the large revenue derived from sugar, and could not but feel, that under circumstances even of the most favourable nature for that purpose, it; was a commodity which could not be smug-
l.1207The Chancellor of the Exchequer
12091208s.s.s.s.s. said, he had given his best attention to the subject, for the purpose of correcting the anomalies of the system, and giving satisfaction to all parties. A proposition was made last year by those interested in the question, the nature of which was already before the public. He should abstain from entering into the details of that plan, because when it became his duty to meet the refiners, and other parties who had interest in it, he found, after maturely considering the subject, that it was his duty to reject what was proffered. He followed up that by another proposition, in some respects similar to that to which he had referred, but in others extremely different. In that plan he did not contemplate the restoration of bounties, as they had existed a few years before. After giving much consideration to the subject, he had arrived at the conclusion, that the only efficient plan would be one founded on the principle of a reduction of duty. The plan which he had at that time considered, he did not communicate either to the East or West India interest. He had abstained from making that communication, until the sanction of government was obtained. He therefore had proposed a reduction to the amount of 712091208s.s.s.s.s.Mr. C. Grant
l.l. said, he could not think that there ought to be any difference between the duties on East and West Indian sugar. He would ask why, in two possessions belonging to the same country, there should be any such difference? As to the prescriptive right of the West-India proprietors, it would be recollected, that the present duties were settled in 1815, not by a discussion in that House, but by the parties interested. The question must stand upon justice, and not upon prescriptive rights. It had been often said, that sugar could not be produced in any part of our possessions in the East Indies. Bishop Heber, alluding to the ignorance which prevailed in this country with respect to Indian affairs, said, that the assertion that no sugar was raised in India might be contradicted by the mere cockneys of Calcutta, and pointed out places in which the raising of sugar was a part of the industry of the country. The admission of sugar upon fair terms would greatly promote the trade of this country with the Indies. In 1814, the first year of the free-trade system, the exports of this country to the East Indies amounted to 1,696,000l.l.Mr. Whitmore
1210 begged the House to recollect, in considering the difference between the duties on East and West Indian produce, that no man could possess a yard of laud, in the East Indies; and, that there-
1210Mr. Bernal
 said, it would not become him, after the statements of his right hon. friends, to say much more than that he concurred in the general tenor of their observations. He was sensible of the great importance of this question in all its bearings: he admitted, that an increased consumption would make up for a diminished duty, still he was bound to pause before he risked the loss of a million of his means. He was satisfied that general benefit would ensue from the postponement of this question for another year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1214 proposed as an amendment, that after the resolution declaratory
1214Mr. Whitmore
 said, there was not an individual acquainted with the affairs of Portugal, who entertained the slightest doubt of the charge which he had made in the early part of his observations. Lord Liverpool had stated to a friend of his, that he had not a doubt of the fact.Mr. E. Davenport
12031202 requested the attention of the House upon a subject of great public interest, and upon which he might or
12031202Mr. E. Davenport
 was glad that ministers considered themselves as a new government, and took time to consider this question. The wide distinction between the West and the East Indies was, that the West Indies were cultivated by British capital. This country had monopolized the supply of stores to the West Indies, by preventing the direct supply from America; the West Indies, therefore, had a peculiar claim on this country. Besides, the West Indians had a pledge, that the bounty on the exportation of sugars should be augmented in proportion to the duty on importation. The East Indies stood on a very different footing. He hoped the government would not be led away by idle theories, but would deal with the question like practical statesmen.Mr. Bright
1212vice versa. expressed his surprise, that any hon. member should wish for the introduction of foreign sugar. If honourable members knew the horrors of slavery connected with its produce, they could not give it any encouragement. He considered that we were in some degree pledged against any such encouragement. At the Congress of Vienna, it was agreed, by those nations favourable to the abolition of the slave-trade, that if France, Spain, and Portugal continued that traffic, their sugars would not be received. It was a mistake to suppose that the comforts of the slave-population depended on the high price of sugar; for it was proved by experience, that in proportion as sugar was cultivated, the condition of the slave was rendered worse, and 1212vice versa.Mr. F. Buxton
 said, that if encouragement was given to the East-India sugar-trade, we should have a supply to any amount that might be required, and have a mart opened for our staple commodities. The demand for some of these, such as copper and lead, in India was scarcely worth mentioning; because they had nothing to return but articles which we would not take. The improvements in our cotton trade had already stopped every loom in India; and it was not fair that we should shut them out from a mart for the only staple they could give us. Under these circumstances, he would support the amendment.Mr. J. Stewart
1211 expressed his entire concurrence in the view taken of this subject by the late President of the Board of Trade. His able speech was an additional proof of the loss which the country had sustained, in being deprived of his valuable services. He trusted that the liberal principles which the right hon. gentleman had so ably supported would be followed by his successor. With respect to the sugar duties, he did hope that government would consider the propriety of not keeping them at their present amount. So far from a reduction being injurious to the revenue, it would prove highly beneficial, by the increase of consumption. This was seen in the case of the reduction of the duties on wine. He would contend, that if the nine hundred thousand pounds of sugar exported were consumed in this country, as they would be if the duties were reduced, it would more than make good the deficiency created by the reduction. The same might be said of most other necessary articles. Thus, if in the article of tea the duty were reduced 25 per cent., the consumption would be so increased, that the revenue would gain by it. The consumption of sugar depended on the price. Last year there was a deficiency in the consumption of three hundred thousand pounds, owing to the increase of price. He contended, that an equalization of the duties on East and West India sugars would be
1211Mr. Hume
1213 said, he must explicitly deny, that any of the alterations to which allusions had been made, had taken place, without proper deliberation as to their consequences upon our colonial relations. He concurred in the proposed postponement because he knew that the chancellor of the Exchequer had devoted himself to the consideration of the subject, and had carefully investigated all its bearings upon the West-India interest, the shipping interest, and, above all, the interests of the great bulk of the consumers of sugar in this country. If it could be afforded at a cheaper rate to those whose habits had rendered it one of their most essential commodities, it was desirable it should be so. He was glad that his right hon. friend had that night delivered his able view of this question; because it was on his part, as well as on that of his right hon. friend, a redemption of their promise of last year, to introduce this subject for consideration, with regard to the whole of the important interests connected with it. If it were possible to take off between one third and one fourth of the duty on sugar, the result might prove a great relief to the West-India planter, in the increased consumption which it would create, a new demand would be induced, and the pressure upon the old of the new markets of Berbice, Demerara, and the coast of Guiana would be relieved. When he looked at the present state of affairs,
1213Mr. Huskisson
1303 said, he would support the bill, not on account of the particular cases of Leicester or Northampton, but Upon the great constitutional principle which had been always asserted in that, and in the other House of Parliament. A bill founded
1303Mr. S. Rice
 said, that a bill of this description having, last session, passed that House, was a sufficient reason why the motion should be received. He should not, however, pledge himself not to oppose this bill in its future stages. Whatever had been done with the former bill in the other House, should not enter into their consideration now. Last session, a charge had been preferred against a corporation, of having diverted charitable funds intrusted to their care, to the purposes of an election. A more serious charge could not be preferred; but he believed it was satisfactorily refuted.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he should support the bill, which was founded upon an excellent principle.Sir F. Burdett
131013091308 said, it appeared that the hon. gentleman wished to bring under discussion the arrangement which had been entered into with his majesty at the beginning of his reign, and which, in every constitutional point of view, was then, and ought still to be, considered a final settlement of the Civil List, unless the Crown deviated from its part of the compact; and, by suffering an arrear to accumulate, was obliged to come to parliament for assistance. He would say, with the hon. gentleman, that this question had little to do with the feelings of his majesty. It was in that House a rule, and a very proper one, that we should forbear from mentioning matters personal to the sovereign. Keeping that rule in view, he would not enter into what
131013091308The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, his hon. colleague had complained of his conduct in presenting a petition the other day from the corporation of Leicester, without informing his hon. colleague of his intention. But the hon. gentleman should remember, that his charge against the corporation was of a severe nature, and that the House had no documents before it to enable it to judge of its propriety. Therefore the corporation had intrusted him with the petition to present in their defence; but, as it turned out, on reading it, that there was an irregularity in it, he had withdrawn it. The charge related to the expenditure of money in the last contest for the representation of the city; and he understood that the corporation had called on his hon. colleague for a certain sum, to defray his proportion of the expense; but his hon. colleague had not thought fit to answer the call made upon him. He would not object to the introduction of the bill; but he would give it his decided opposition, as an infringement of the rights and privileges of corporations, not justified by any necessity.Sir C. Hastings
13021301l.l.l.l.l.1300l.12991298l. rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the application of Corporate Funds to Electioneering Purposes, and began by stating that his measure would resemble that which an hon. and gallant colonel (Maberly) had introduced last year. He rested his motion solely on the ground, that for a corporation to apply part of its funds to promote the return of a particular candidate, was an illegal interference with the privileges of the House. It was scarcely necessary for him to do more than to recal the attention of members to the leading facts detailed by his hon. and gallant friend; one of the main features of the case being the resolution of the corporation of Leicester to devote 1,00013021301l.l.l.l.l.1300l.12991298l.Mr. Otway Cave
 was thoroughly convinced that the vote of money by the corporation was perfectly legal.Mr. Ross
 said, he was not acquainted with the contents of the petition which had been presented on a former occasion, and withdrawn on account of informality. He had further to say, that he was not acquainted with the merits of this particular case at that time, and that he still remained ignorant of them.Mr. Legh Keck
l.l.l.l.l.l.1307l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1306l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1305l.1304, in rising to bring forward his motion, "to take into consideration the expediency of revising the Civil List, as far as regards the sums now appropriated to
l.l.l.l.l.l.1307l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1306l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1305l.1304Mr. Hume
 said, he would give his decided opposition to the bill in all its stages.Mr. Fyler
l.l.l.1312l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1311 said, his right hon. friend had taken a very correct view of the nature of the Civil List. He had, in his opinion, sufficiently illustrated the position, that it was not possible, without breaking through an arrangement, and putting the public to great inconvenience, to resume, during the present reign, any interference with that compact. The preamble to the act put an end to this question. He did not mean to say, that parliament, in its omnipotence, might not undertake anything; but, in this instance, they could not accede to such a motion, without breaking the agreement between the Crown and the public. Now, he thought that if they did break that compact—if the door were thrown open for the reclamation of the hereditary revenues—the country would not be the gainer. The doctrine brought forward that night had been reprobated by all the authorities on every side of that House. The hon. member had noticed the proceedings of 1812 and 1816. Why, on both those occasions, the Civil List was brought under their consideration, because the Crown had applied to parliament for assistance. On those occasions, the House certainly did receive that valuable information contained in the large volume referred to by the hon. member, relative to the expense of the larder, the kitchen, the stables, &c. He (Mr. Huskisson) had stated, on a former occasion, that he would not consent that the bins of his majesty's stables should be inspected to see what portion of oats was consumed from day to day; but, when he said that, he admitted, that if the Crown requested aid for the Civil List, then parliament had a right to inquire under what circumstances the debt had been incurred. But the hon. gentleman had gone further than he expected any individual would have done, when he called for a return of pensions chargeable on the Civil List, in order that he might see whether any of them were improperly
l.l.l.1312l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1311Mr. Huskisson
 said, that the butchers of the metropolis had intrusted him with a petition against the intended removal of Smithfield Market. The trade viewed this measure with great uneasiness, as it would occasion them considerable additional trouble and expense. The cost incidental to such a change must cause an increase of at least a penny per pound on all animal food sold in. the city. Should the subject be permitted to stand over till next session, he had no doubt the corporation of London would make application for a bill to remove the inconveniences now complained of.Mr. Alderman Thompson
1318 deprecated any
1318Mr. Alderman Wood
1323132213211320odium theologicum1319, in presenting a petition from the Catholic inhabitants of Drumlane, praying for Emancipation, remarked, that the claims which the people of Ireland so justly sought for from the legislature, had been disposed of, at least for a time, by the other House of parliament. He could not present this petition, without saying a few words upon the subject to which it referred. It appeared to him, that more rational expectations were now held out to the country of the final adjustment of this question and he trusted that they would have the beneficial effect of allaying that irritation which it was impossible for men situated like the people of Ireland not to feel. But he hoped and trusted, that better times were at hand, and that in the next session something would be done to settle this question. His hopes arose from what had occurred in another place, and from manner in which this question had been recently discussed; there. Such a view of the present state of things he was anxious to believe would; induce the Catholics of Ireland, while they relaxed not in their constitutional efforts for relief, to rely more confidently upon the approaching success of their claims. They should bear in mind that this branch of the legislature had repeatedly decided in favour of those claims; and they should recollect, that though the other House had refused to take them into consideration for the present, there were circumstances connected with their discussion there, which augured well for their final success. When he reflected upon the opinions which had been expressed in the course of that discussion,—when he found the most determined opponents of the measure looking at the question with a temper materially altered,—and when it was agreed upon all hands, that it was impossible for things to remain in their present state,—he did hope that in the ensuing session, his majesty's ministers would introduce some measure for the amelioration of the laws affecting the Roman Catholics. The obsolete objections which had been so frequently urged against the measure appeared to have been thrown aside. The noble duke who presided over his majesty's councils had
1323132213211320odium theologicum1319Sir F. Burdett
 said, that as the hon. baronet had expressed a hope, that the present administration would take up this question in the next session, and introduce some measure for its settlement, lest any misconception should go abroad respecting his sentiments, he was anxious to speak upon this point for himself, and for himself alone. Under the constitution of the present government, each individual member of it was at liberty to entertain and support his own opinions regarding this question. Conceiving then, that it was only necessary for him to state his own individual opinion on the subject, he would refer the hon. baronet and the House to the declaration which he had repeatedly made respecting it, and, speaking then as an individual member of the government, he explained, as he was at liberty to do, his own sentiments on the question. To that declaration, and to those opinions, he still adhered, and he conceived that, in saying so, he had said enough to satisfy the House that his sentiments upon the subject remained unaltered.Mr. Secretary Peel
.—I was speaking in my individual capacity, and not as the organ of government.Mr. Peel
1332 said, he entirely concurred with his hon. friend, the member for Westminster, in considering it a very serious evil, not to say a great calamity, that the other House had rejected their temperate resolution. But he must say, that though the resolution was rejected, there were great grounds for consolation. He admitted, with his hon. friend, that his hope was more lively a great deal than his faith, on the present occasion; but, nevertheless, there were some circumstances from which he derived great comfort, in the manner in which the resolution of that House had been rejected. No man who had attended to those circumstances could doubt that a better day was approaching. He could not say, that the circumstances to which he alluded arose from the co-operation of new allies, or the accession of new friends; but from the recorded admissions of former foes. The tone of their adversaries was different from what it used to be. The friends of the Catholics had not now arrayed against them the same unbending, intolerant, and bigotted spirit, by which all former attempts at conciliation and concession were uniformly opposed. They had, in the first place, all the theological lumber thrown overboard. They had no longer to talk of councils and decrees. It was now admitted, upon high authority, that this was a question of expediency alone, and must be met with legislation and not by negotiation. The latter was not the way to cops with the difficulty of the case. The legislature had no right to go to the Roman Catholics and say, "Will you take this portion of power, and give us this or that security?" That was not. The way to proceed. The legislature ought to make up their own minds on the subject. Due regard being had to the rights of the great body of their Roman Catholic fellow-subjects, it was for parliament to legislate according to the exigency of the occasion, and the situation of the empire, and it was for those who said that securities were necessary, to propound those securities. It was not for those who denied that any necessity for securities existed to come forward and propose securities. Enough had been admitted to point out to them how they
1332Mr. Brougham
 thought, that the present arrangements for slaughtering cattle were disgusting in the highest degree; and saw no reasonable objection to the introduction of the system so successfully acted on at Paris. He should be pleased to see the Milbank Penitentiary converted into an abattoir, as it seemed peculiarly eligible for that purpose.Colonel Trench
1327 agreed with the noble lord as to the mischiefs of having an administration divided on this most vital question. He considered it as the greatest misfortune this country laboured under. If, of late, he had placed his confidence in his majesty's government, it was because
1327Sir T. Lethbridge
133013291328 said, he agreed in the opinion, that the Catholic cause was rapidly gaining ground. The hon. baronet, who had last spoken, seemed to think, that the result which the friends of the Catholics had in view, was only to be gained by abstaining from discussion. But how was it, that the friends of the Catholic cause had made any progress in their great work? It was by discussion: and, if they hoped to make any progress hereafter, it must be, not by silence, but by discussion. If they abstained from discussion, the inference would be, that they were doubtful of the justice of their
133013291328Mr. Spring Rice
1326 said, it was with extreme regret that he had heard of the vote to which the House of Lords had come, on the resolution transmitted from that House for their lordships' concurrence. He should have thought such a resolution could not have been met, in any British House of Parliament, by a negative. He could conceive that their lordships might have said, that they had not made up their minds on the subject: he could understand them, if they had asked for delay, and postponed the further consideration of the question to the next session: but he confessed he was not prepared for a negative from their lordships to a resolution couched in such language; and when it was notorious that every man, both in and out of parliament, concurred as to the dangerous situation of Ireland, it was surprising that their lordships should refuse to enter upon the consideration of the means by which they might possibly avert such danger. He had not had the advantage of hearing the debate which had taken place elsewhere; but he must confess that, judging from the reports which he had read, he indulged in none of the sanguine expectations of the hon. member for Westminster; judging by the report which he had seen, of the speech of the noble duke alluded to, he could merely see throughout it a studious wish to excite hopes, and an equally studious determination to say nothing which could warrant their existence. He greatly preferred the conduct of his right hon. friend opposite; it was open, and manly. He had referred to his former declaration. In that declaration, the right hon. gentleman had stated, that he would not be satisfied with any security which would not exclude Roman Catholics from parliament and from the councils of the state. However he might dissent from the right hon. gentleman, he could not charge him with that
1326Mr. Wynn
1324 remarked, that if the object of government was to preserve public order and defend those who had property from those who had it not, the situation of the government of Ireland must be peculiarly difficult; because there was no country in the world in which the division between the rich and the poor was so broad and sudden. In England, there were intermediate links in the chain of society between the highest and the lowest; but in that country they were wanting altogether. What resource had the government under these circumstances? Was it to rely upon the number of the
1324Mr. W. Baring
1325odium theologicum, said, it was quite true, that all the 1325odium theologicum,Sir. J. Yorke
 said, it was absolutely necessary to alter the present system, if its effects were not much misrepresented. A document had been put into his hands, setting forth the expediency of this measure, but combining such nauseous details that he should not be surprised, what with the Grand Junction Water Company and this, to see a general vomit through the House. Father Thames was polluted by streams of putrid gore that never ceased disgorging their filth into its waters. From a regard, therefore, for the health and cleanliness of the city, he should be anxious to see the project now petitioned against carried into effect.Sir J. Yorke
 concurred with his hon. friend, the member for Westminster, in entertaining great expectations from the tone and temper with which the question had been discussed in the other House. It was gratifying to observe the difference which existed in that tone, from what was manifested on former occasions. The noble duke at the head of his majesty's councils admitted the existence of the danger which resulted from the agitation of this question, and he appeared desirous to settle it, if he could have sufficient securities. Now, this was an important admission. He trusted, however, that the Catholics of Ireland would not be induced, on that account, to press forward with less zeal, in the constitutional assertion of their rights. It was impossible that things could remain as they were, and some proposition must, sooner or later, be brought forward. The right hon. Secretary had informed them of the constitution of the present government; but he considered it a most unconstitutional administration. It was founded upon the principle of division with regard to a question of the greatest importance to the country; and, while so constituted, it never ought to have the confidence of that House. He never would give his confidence to such an administration; but, before he became directly hostile to it, he should wait to see its measures.Lord Althorp
1333 said, it had been his lot to hear those expressions in the other House to which so much importance was now attached. In those expressions there certainly was a tone which indicated the desire of some satisfactory termination of the question; but in the sequel it appeared, that there were great difficulties
1333Lord Ebrington
.—Now, when he considered the vague and unsatisfactory expressions which he had heard in another place, and contrasted them with the plain and distinct opinions which the right hon. gentleman had that evening avowed, he could not think that any thing was to be expected from government, with respect to this great question. In making this observation, he did not mean to say that he did not entertain hopes of the ultimate success of the question. He, however, grounded those hopes on the increasing information of the country, and the increasing spirit of liberality which was observable in that House.Lord Ebrington
1331 said, he felt deeply for the situation of his Roman Catholic fellow-subjects of Ireland, but he was not so sanguine in his hopes of the success of their cause, as some gentlemen appeared to be. There were, however, in the present state of affairs, some circumstances of a satisfactory nature, which led him to entertain a hope, that the ultimate fate of the question would be propitious. As to the motives of the noble duke at the head of the administration, he could, not dive into them; and therefore his hope was not founded on those motives. His hope rested on the declaration of the hon. baronet opposite, that the Catholic cause was making progress. If the noble duke had given any thing like a pledge for the settlement of this important question, that pledge ought to be redeemed. When a case of difficulty and danger was confessed to exist, it must be the paramount duty of a statesman to attempt to extricate his country therefrom. It was not the part of a statesman to excite any hope which he did not mean to satisfy. No individual should take a course from which a friendly feeling to the Catholics might be inferred, unless he intended to redeem the pledge thus given. These were the reasons which induced him to cherish a feeling of hope for the present, and of pleasing anticipation for the future. He trusted that another session would not
1331Lord Morpeth
 maintained that if colonial corps were established to the number of twenty or thirty thousand men—there would then be no stigma attached to them. They would be well officered; and being well officered would be as effective and valuable as any other troops. He admitted, that there were advantages attendant on the dépôt companies; but their great expense was objectionable. We really were descending from that 'vantage ground which our insular situation gave us. While we retained the command of the sea, it was impossible that any foreign power could invade our West-India islands, before we could send out a force capable of resisting. The military men of this country argued as if we were a continental state. If we were like Austria, or Prussia, then, indeed, we must always maintain a large military force, however the expense of doing so might depress our commerce or agriculture. But, in our insular state, the maintenance of such a force was unnecessary.Colonel Davies
l. objected to the motion. If a bill for the alteration of this market should be brought in next session, he would cheerfully support it. The contemplated measure would affect nearly 5,000,000l.Mr. Alderman Wood
 thought, that the establishment of a market at the west end of the town would be most beneficial to the interests of the metropolis.Mr. Benett
 insisted on the necessity of a change, and enlarged on the disgusting spectacle which Whitechapel-market presented on slaughter-days.Mr. Lennard
1356l. said, that the printed statements were entirely fallacious. He must say, that this attempt to remove Smithfield-market was a job for the advantage of a few individuals. He denied that the evils were of the nature stated by those who called for the removal. Great odium was thrown on the city, because it did not provide adequate space; but every thing that could be done for that purpose had been since done. As to the state of the slaughter-houses, none in Paris or elsewhere could be cleaner than those in Newgate and Leadenhall-markets. These were under the control of the Corporation, who had spent thousands in improving them. When the city asked the sanction of the House for the removal of this market, partial interests interfered, and the bill was successfully opposed, after it had passed that House. Another time, when the city proposed the enlargement of the market, the bill was thrown out in the Lords, because some peers, who happened to be governors of the Charter-house, were afraid that the annoyance of the cattle would be brought too near that seminary. The Corporation; had since expended 25,0001356l.Mr. Alderman Waithman
abattoirs. said, he was no anxious to see any measure precipitated which might affect vested interests of so much magnitude; more particularly when the representatives of the city declared their readiness to give the fullest consideration to any plan for the improvement of the market. The master-butchers of Smithfield had once applied to him, when he was represented as having intended the establishment of abattoirs.Mr. Secretary Peel
1358l.l.1357 opposed the Speaker's
1358l.l.1357Colonel Davies
 strongly recommended a rigid system of economy.Mr. Alderman Waithman
, in moving that the House go into a Committee on this bill, observed, that the bill had received the sanction of the aristocracy and the great landed proprietors of the kingdom. The scarcity of game in I the market had long held out to poachers a temptation to the commission of depredations upon the preserves; but he was satisfied that this bill, by rendering game less valuable, would materially check the evil.Mr. Stuart Worthy
 supported the bill, although he was not so sanguine in his expectations of its success, as were some of his friends. He felt convinced that the present system was a bad one, and that the adoption of this measure would be one great step towards its amendment. At present, no man could preserve his game, without the employment of an armed force, and this created a disagreeable feeling between parties who ought to stand in a different relation towards each other. He thought certain qualifications might be introduced, which would induce the owner of small portions of land to part with their right of sporting and sale of game to their more opulent neighbours.Mr. Secretary Peel
 supported the bill, on the ground that legalising the sale of game would put an end to poaching.Mr. Duncombe
 approved of the bill, because it would decrease the remuneration for poaching, and would consequently diminish the crime.Lord W. Powlett
 said, that some alteration in these laws was required by the country, and he thought that alteration likely to be effected by the present bill. It was notorious, that there was a feeling in favour of poachers, which prevented them from being visited by the punishment which the law enacted.Mr. C. Wood
d.s.l.l. said, that the system of the war department reflected equal credit on those who had gone out, and those who were in. He was anxious to make a short statement in opposition to that of the hon. member for Aberdeen, in justice to the memory of an illustrious individual, now no more, under whose superintendence the army had arrived at its present improved condition. He then entered into various calculations, to prove that the cost of the same number of cavalry and infantry, in 1792, was precisely 453,000d.s.l.l.Colonel Trench
l.1361l.l.l.l.1360 said, that in submitting the Army Estimates to the committee, he did not mean to occupy any great, portion of their attention. He confessed that he came before the committee under some degree of disadvantage; because he had not been able to render himself so completely master of the details as he could wish. Much of the inconvenience was, however, removed by the discussion which had taken place, about two months ago, with respect to the force which was intended to be kept up. On that occasion his noble friend had got a vote of money on account, preparatory to the in-
l.1361l.l.l.l.1360Sir H. Hardinge
 said, that English gentlemen were the best officers in the world. If regiments were permanently established in the colonies, they would be deprived of the greater part of those officers.Sir H. Hardinge
 supported the bill, as one step towards an improvement of the existing code of laws.Mr. Benett
 insisted upon the absolute necessity' of reduction, in the present state of the country.Mr. Monck
1359l.l. said, that the general apathy which existed on this subject appeared to him very extraordinary. In 1822 and 1823, that House and the country were clamorous for reduction in the public expenditure; they now scarcely heard a word upon the subject, although some millions had been added to the expenditure. If they did not adopt a system of reduction now, what could they do when a war should come? They were now about to vote upwards of 16,000,0001359l.l.Mr. Hume
l.1362 referred to the case of the troops in India, who were permanently established there; and who, nevertheless, were as good soldiers as any in the world.
l.1362Mr. Hume
l.l. observed, that this was a most useless vote. It was a charge for educating young men for the army, which the country ought not to pay. The sum we had already paid during the last ten years, amounted to232,437l.l.Mr. Hume
 would not oppose the measure, although ho did not altogether accede to its principle or provisions.Mr. R. Colborne
 wished to see the market for the sale of game thrown open; but he feared that this bill would not effect all the desired purposes.Mr. G. Lamb
l. said, he was quite sure the country could not bear the burthen which was thrown upon it. It was perfectly clear that their expenses were increasing, while they ought to be diminished. The utmost amount of debt reduced since 1813 was 2,700,000l.Mr. W. Smith
1366 supported the bill. The present laws for preventing poaching were quite inoperative; whereas the law proposed to be enacted might be acted upon, He considered that the quantity of game would be increased under the proposed bill; as farmers, finding a legal mode of
1366Mr. F. Lewis
1365 said, he altogether disapproved of the bill. The interests of the class of independent country gentlemen would be sacrificed by it, and the higher and the lower orders only would be benefitted. The first being enabled from extensive and uninterrupted acres, to bring to market a very profitable produce of game for sale; and the last, receiving a right to kill game on their own lands, by possessing ten acres only. Under this provision, it would be no longer possible for those country gentlemen, living in that part of England where property was much divided, to protect their game. This ten acre qualification would be a constant source of altercation, and would greatly tend to create ill blood between neighbours, who would otherwise live in harmony. This bill would operate against the inducement country gentlemen should feel, to reside on their estates; a most mischievous effect, and which was one of the great evils tinder which Ireland was suffering. As to
1365Sir John Brydges
 said, he had for many years opposed the principle of this bill; but he felt it his duty no longer to do so. He had not relinquished any of his opinions on the subject of these laws; but they would not be interfered with by the principle of this bill. One of the great evils of the Game-laws arose from the system of battues, which was the practice of enticing the game into a corner, and destroying them there. The crime of poaching was chiefly encouraged by the mode of keeping preserves.Sir J. Shelley
 said, that from the facilities which the bill gave to the sale of game, he thought that poachers would increase. Wherever preserves sprang up, poachers invariably sprang up also. By lowering the qualification, as was proposed, idler-ness and brawls would be encouraged among the inferior classes, and particularly amongst young farmers and apprentices. It would also have the effect of driving the country gentlemen to the metropolis; as they would no longer have the exclusive right of sporting, which constituted their principal amusement. If the bill should pass, he hoped it might receive such alterations, as would render it more beneficial to the country.Sir H. Vivian
1364 said, that as one of the commissioners to whom the confidence of the Crown had committed the superintendence of this establishment, he felt it his duty to defend it against the attacks of the hon. member. The establishment was not, as the hon. member had said, for boys. It was for the education of the staff. In 1792, a favourite year with the hon. member, we had no education for the army; and the exercise of firing by platoons, or a general salute to a commanding officer, were the only education of our officers. In the war in Flanders, to the disgrace of our army, we had to ap-
1364Sir A. Hope
 approved of the general principle of the measure, and observed, that his hon. friend, and his noble relative in the other House, deserved the thanks of the country for bringing it forward.Lord Morpeth
s.1363 said, the fact was, that the establishment of each regiment now consisted of seven hundred and forty men, or ten companies, but with no more officers than if the rank and file of each regiment had amounted to eight hundred men. In 1792, the same number of officers would have belonged only to four ! hundred men. It was his sincere opinion, that the present organization of the army was the best that had been formed within his memory. He denied that the officers of the dépôt companies were employed in recruiting; but he admitted that they were occupied in drilling and training recruits. The only officers employed in re-
s.1363Lord Palmerston
 said, the office had already undergone the sifting of a committee, whose report was on the table of the House: it was therefore rather hard to say now that it required revision and regulation. The real question before the House was, whether the position in which the parties stood—seeing that under certain circumstances they had been obliged to come before the House to claim its aid—was such as to call upon that House to do that circuitously and indirectly, which it had not taken up openly and directly [hear]. The commission in 1823, which suggested the abolition of certain offices, never mentioned this.The Solicitor-general
d. said, that the report of the committee alluded to was highly creditable to the manner in which the duties of the situation had been invariably discharged, and he could not consent to the principal officer being superseded. Such a measure could not change the nature of the office, although it would withdraw the responsibility from the persons in whose hands it was most suitably intrusted. Nor had the report animadverted on the fees of the office as being too large for the duties which it imposed. He doubted whether the hon. gentleman, though so rigid an economist, would think 12d.The Attorney-general
 said, he was not convinced of the justice or necessity of such a course. He nevertheless was by no means prepared to say, that this office was not a fit subject for future regulation. It was at present conducted in a manner satisfactory to the public; and it ought to be remembered, that the archbishop would have the power to introduce younger lives, in the event of the bill being rejected.Dr. Lushington
 agreed, that this was too wide a question to be discussed on a petition. When the great question of the charter came on, and also the question of the monopoly of the China trade, that would be the proper time for discussion. This question, than which he knew of no one of greater importance, had, he must say, been treated by his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) on the most narrow scale possible. It was not a question of indigo or sugar: it rested upon much more important grounds. As to the question of East-India Sugar, he believed that it had been altogether overrated, both with respect to the benefits which the West Indians derived from the restriction, and with respect to the extent to which the East Indians could carry this trade. Sugar never would come from the East Indies but in the way of ballast; and he entertained great doubts whether a large quantity of sugar could ever be raised in the East Indies.Mr. Baring
1379d. said, the hon. member had spoken as if it had ever been contended, that colonization should be effected in India as in Canada. Their object, as to Canada, was to send out their pauper population there; but could any one be absurd enough to propose, that paupers should be sent to a country, where the wages of the labourer were under 31379d.Mr. Warburton
13771376 said, he did not agree with his right hon. friend, that this question ought not to be discussed on the present occasion. On the contrary, such was its importance, that it ought constantly to be before the House. They had an empire in India, covering nearly thirty degrees of latitude, and upwards of thirty
13771376Mr. Whitmore
1383l.l. believed that the chancellor of the Exchequer had estimated the small-note currency of the kingdom too low. The right hon. gentleman had put the whole amount under two millions and a half. But there were six-hundred and sixty-eight bankers in England; more than five hundred were issuers of one-pound notes; and, supposing each to have only 10,0001383l.l.Mr. Alderman Thompson
138613851384 said, that the objection of the hon. member would most properly come before the House when the bill was in committee. As on the general question of restricting the circulation of the one-pound notes, there might be a difference of opinion; but it having been agreed that the issue of such notes in England should cease, to forbid the circulation of Scotch notes of the same description on this side the border seemed to follow as patter of course. If this bill were not
138613851384Mr. Baring
1388 said, he was no friend to a paper currency, for its own sake: as far as he could avoid it he would; but it was frequently necessary. That he believed to be the case in the present instance, and that was one objection to this bill. Another was, that the bill was wholly unnecessary. He was speaking of the circulation of small notes in a certain portion of England, and of their not going beyond it. This was found to be a great convenience. Why, then, should the chancellor of the Exchequer wish to disturb it? He spoke not of the advantage of the system
1388Mr. Bankes
l.,l.l.l.1390ad infinitum:1389 said, that of all the arguments which he had heard on this subject, that just delivered by his hon. friend was, without disrespect to him, the most ridiculous. He admitted, that our currency v"as never in a more prosperous state; and he urged that as a reason for
l.,l.l.l.1390ad infinitum:1389Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that the country had passed the period of greatest pressure, in the progress of resuming a gold currency. He believed that, unless the bill passed, much mischief would be caused in England by the circulation of Scotch notes.Mr. Whitmore
l.l.s. said, he wished to call the attention of the House to the bill before them, which was one of the most absurd pieces of legislation ever introduced into that House. It granted a great boon to Scotland, and imposed a great privation on England. If he read its provisions rightly, they amounted to this—If an Englishman took a Scotch note of 20l.l.s.Mr. Hudson Gurney
1378l.l. was greatly pleased that the right hon. gentleman had presented a petition, which stated so broadly and so justly the principles on which the House ought to proceed. If they looked back, however, to what had been done since the last renewal of the Company's charter, they would find that there was not one of those important principles that had not been violated in India. The petition contained two main propositions; one with regard to free trade, and the other with respect to the intercourse of Europeans with India. The rights of British subjects in that country had been violated by the act of parliament, and by every regulation passed by the Court of Directors and the Board of Control. While 271378l.l.Mr. Hume
1382l.l.1381l.l. said, that the object of the bill was to restrain Scotch Bank Notes from circulating in England. This must lessen the circulating medium of England. He had objected to putting an end to the small notes, in 1826; and he had seen nothing since to induce him to change his opinion. Did the right hon. gentleman mean to make any difference in principle, between a paper circulation of 11382l.l.1381l.l.Mr. Hume
1372l.,l., said, he could not consent to the passing of this bill in its present state. An account of the fees and emoluments accruing from the offices of which his grace had the appointment had been put into his hands. The salary of the principal registrar, in the year 1826, had amounted to 7,6001372l.,l.,Mr. Hume
l.l.l.1373 said, that in 1810, on the recommendation of a committee, cer-
l.l.l.1373Dr. Phillimore
1391 said, that if he could be persuaded to believe, that the Scotch notes would spread themselves from that country to Northampton, and from Northampton to London, he would have no objection to vote for the present measure.
1391Mr. P. Thompson
1380 said, that the petition was extremely mild and temperate. It called upon the House to consider whether the prohibitions upon the intercourse of Europeans with the interior of the country,—prohibitions imposed, not by the company but by the parliament, and also the commercial restrictions, ought to be allowed to continue. As to the intercourse of Europeans with the interior, whether the prohibition were right or wrong, it had existed from all time; and the petitioners, not venturing to point out any course for the adoption of the House, merely prayed that they would take into their consideration, whether it would not be expedient to repeal the act of parliament which enacted this prohibition; and he would appeal to the House, whether these temperate petitioners were treated fairly by gentlemen who introduced angry and irritating topics. With respect to the renewal of the charter, he was so deeply impressed with the difficulties of the question and the magnitude of the interests involved, that he must suspend his judgment. Whenever he came to give his vote on the subject he should have the satisfaction of knowing that his judgment had been conscientiously formed. He would, however, say, that this was not merely a commercial question. The interests of millions were connected with it in a commercial, but they were infinitely more closely connected with it in a political, point of view. He remembered when evidence was heard at the bar of the House, prior to the last renewal of the charter, that sir Thomas Munro had given it as his opinion, that, considered simply as a commercial question, freedom from restriction would considerably increase the
1380Mr. Robert Grant
 said, that since the year 1813, he had been witness to many great and important alterations, all of which wore in favour of the removal of restrictions. If the discussion was continued, it would be impossible to get through the orders of the day; one of which would give him an opportunity of carrying into effect some of the recommendations of hon. gentlemen.Mr. Courtenay
l.l. supported the amendment. They were now called upon to continue a sinecure amounting to 8,000l.l.Mr. Wynn
 declined going into the wide field opened by the hon. member, and which had no connection with the petition. Whether the system of government adopted with regard to India ought to be changed or not was not now the question; he would not, therefore, enter into it. But he could not hear the hon. member charge the East-India Company with prejudice and monopoly, without denying that any such charge properly attached to them. He presumed to think, that in the government of India the Court of Directors exercised their honest judgment. Whenever that question came before the House, he should be prepared to go into it.Mr. Astell
13751374 said, that, although he had given notice of his intention to present a petition from the Merchants of Calcutta re-
13751374Mr. Huskisson
 said, it was evident that the small notes now in circulation might continue in circulation for a considerable period after 1829. He thought that, having endured a great part of the inconvenience resulting from a return to a metallic currency, the House should not now undo its former labours. He had no objection to the circulation of small notes in Scotland, but as they occasionally circulated in the northern parts of England, he thought it desirable to adopt the proposition of the chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. Manning
1387 said, his hon. friend had himself supplied an answer to his own case, by admitting the difficulties which would be experienced by the limitation of the currency. The argument assumed was, that the Scotch notes would, if permitted to cross the border, spread over England. Now, if we were to resort to practice instead of theory, we were supplied with it by the experience of what occurred in 1797. In the inquiry with respect to Scotch banks, it was proved that no Scotch notes found their way to England; so that any supposed injury on this ground was to be left out of the question. Where notes were circulated in the counties adjoining each side of the border, the English bankers might take the notes of their Scottish neighbours, and have theirs taken in the same way; but the more distant inland bankers, who had not the same connexion with Scotland, would not be in the same situation; and therefore the apprehension of a general circulation of Scotch notes was groundless. But the case of 1797 was the best proof that there was no ground to justify the course now proposed. The truth was, that his hon. friend and the right hon. secretary, had made up their minds, that the best currency they could have was a large metallic circulation. This was the fallacy on
1387Sir H. Parnell
 said, it appeared that enormous emoluments were attached to this office, and a great increase had taken place in those emoluments, while the duties of the office were performed by deputy. Now reductions should be made in offices of that description before the House were called upon to reduce the pay and half-pay of those poor fellows who had fought and bled for their country.Sir J. Yorke
1392 believed, that the legislature, by requiring securities of the country bankers, would obtain all the advantages, without running the risk of any of
1392Lord Ebrington
 said, he would oppose the present bill, simply upon the ground of the excessive mischief which it must produce in the north, when the same money which was current on one side of a given line, would now be forbidden to be received on the other. The effect of such a law could only be, that it would be violated, whenever men's interests were concerned in setting it at defiance; and a system of informing would grow up: men would take a Scotch note from their employer one day, and inform against him the next.Lord Howick
d.s.l.l.l.l.l.1412 said, that no man could be more alive than he was to the propriety of doing every thing for our fellow-subjects in India which could be done for the people of this country, but complaints had been brought forward on the other side, which were void of reasonable foundation. It was difficult to make taxation palatable; and to the stamp duty considerable dislike appeared to be entertained. But many circumstances had been dwelt upon as grievances, which, in point of fact, could not be considered as taxes at all. For instance, lotteries could not be called a direct tax. But all that was gained by them the government laid out in cleansing and beautifying the city of Calcutta. The portage and harbourage dues also did not defray the expenses attendant upon the
d.s.l.l.l.l.l.1412Lord Ashley
panacea14151414 said, that rather than that nothing should be done, in consequence of the representations contained in the present petition, he would consent to the referring the whole matter to a committee; for if that reference were attended with no other good effect, it would at least let in light upon the affairs of India. It was therefore that he would, if his right hon. friend pressed the question to a division, certainly vote with him; at the same time, he fully agreed with those who thought that that was not the most convenient period of the session to enter upon questions of such magnitude. He differed altogether with those who
panacea14151414Mr. Brougham
1430129,0533,046141,0933,0521828
129,0533,046141,0933,0521828102,5753,20397,4432,8821827
102,5753,20397,4432,882182782,9762,939107,4552,974.1826
82,9762,939107,4552,974.1826Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.
Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards
Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards
129,0533,046141,0933,0521828
129,0533,046141,0933,0521828102,5753,20397,4432,8821827
102,5753,20397,4432,882182782,9762,939107,4552,974.1826
82,9762,939107,4552,974.1826Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.
Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards
Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards8,186,701—1827—
8,186,701—1827—8,368,812—1826—
8,368,812—1826—8,300,756—1825—
8,300,756—1825—8,101,337—1824—
8,101,337—1824—
8,186,701—1827—
8,186,701—1827—8,368,812—1826—
8,368,812—1826—8,300,756—1825—
8,300,756—1825—8,101,337—1824—
8,101,337—1824—1429715,8241,972,7801827
715,8241,972,7801827643,9221,796,2501826
643,9221,796,2501826892,6012,027,4691825
892,6012,027,4691825Tons.Tons.
Tons.Tons.Foreign.Foreign.British.British.
Foreign.Foreign.British.British.
715,8241,972,7801827
715,8241,972,7801827643,9221,796,2501826
643,9221,796,2501826892,6012,027,4691825
892,6012,027,4691825Tons.Tons.
Tons.Tons.Foreign.Foreign.British.British.
Foreign.Foreign.British.British.142843,536237,4612,02871,9131827,
43,536237,4612,02871,9131827,39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,
39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,
52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,Foreign.British.Foreign.British.
Foreign.British.Foreign.British.Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.
Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.
43,536237,4612,02871,9131827,
43,536237,4612,02871,9131827,39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,
39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,
52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,Foreign.British.Foreign.British.
Foreign.British.Foreign.British.Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.
Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.41,508165,5481827
41,508165,548182737,137151,3271826
37,137151,327182648,943162,6141825
48,943162,6141825Foreign.British.Years.
Foreign.British.Years.Great Britain.Great Britain.
Great Britain.Great Britain.
41,508165,5481827
41,508165,548182737,137151,3271826
37,137151,327182648,943162,6141825
48,943162,6141825Foreign.British.Years.
Foreign.British.Years.Great Britain.Great Britain.
Great Britain.Great Britain.1427de novo1426de novo14251424 remarked, that this was the first time he had ever heard a regular speech in reply to a Debate that had taken place twelve months ago. It had also afforded him some surprise to hear from the right hon. gentleman, that it was the intention of government to
1430129,0533,046141,0933,0521828
129,0533,046141,0933,0521828102,5753,20397,4432,8821827
102,5753,20397,4432,882182782,9762,939107,4552,974.1826
82,9762,939107,4552,974.1826Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.
Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards
Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards
129,0533,046141,0933,0521828
129,0533,046141,0933,0521828102,5753,20397,4432,8821827
102,5753,20397,4432,882182782,9762,939107,4552,974.1826
82,9762,939107,4552,974.1826Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.
Tonnage.Vessels.TonnageVessels.Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards
Outwards.Outwards.InwardsInwards8,186,701—1827—
8,186,701—1827—8,368,812—1826—
8,368,812—1826—8,300,756—1825—
8,300,756—1825—8,101,337—1824—
8,101,337—1824—
8,186,701—1827—
8,186,701—1827—8,368,812—1826—
8,368,812—1826—8,300,756—1825—
8,300,756—1825—8,101,337—1824—
8,101,337—1824—1429715,8241,972,7801827
715,8241,972,7801827643,9221,796,2501826
643,9221,796,2501826892,6012,027,4691825
892,6012,027,4691825Tons.Tons.
Tons.Tons.Foreign.Foreign.British.British.
Foreign.Foreign.British.British.
715,8241,972,7801827
715,8241,972,7801827643,9221,796,2501826
643,9221,796,2501826892,6012,027,4691825
892,6012,027,4691825Tons.Tons.
Tons.Tons.Foreign.Foreign.British.British.
Foreign.Foreign.British.British.142843,536237,4612,02871,9131827,
43,536237,4612,02871,9131827,39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,
39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,
52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,Foreign.British.Foreign.British.
Foreign.British.Foreign.British.Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.
Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.
43,536237,4612,02871,9131827,
43,536237,4612,02871,9131827,39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,
39,838224,6282,70173,3011826,52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,
52,722228,5353,779.65,921.1825,Foreign.British.Foreign.British.
Foreign.British.Foreign.British.Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.
Total.Total.Ireland.Ireland.41,508165,5481827
41,508165,548182737,137151,3271826
37,137151,327182648,943162,6141825
48,943162,6141825Foreign.British.Years.
Foreign.British.Years.Great Britain.Great Britain.
Great Britain.Great Britain.
41,508165,5481827
41,508165,548182737,137151,3271826
37,137151,327182648,943162,6141825
48,943162,6141825Foreign.British.Years.
Foreign.British.Years.Great Britain.Great Britain.
Great Britain.Great Britain.1427de novo1426de novo14251424Mr. C. Grant
 said, he was anxious on the part of his majesty's government, to disclaim the opinions which had been, in some degree imputed to them, by his right hon. friend the member for Inverness, and more strongly by the hon. member for Dover. The hon. member for Dover seemed to think, from something which had fallen from the Vice-president of the Board of Trade, that government intended to abandon the principles, with respect to navigation and trade, which they had acted on previously to the late separation; but his right hon. friend, the member for Liverpool, had fairly answered the hon. member for Dover, when he asked, how it was possible that government could abandon those principles, when so many members of the administration were the very individuals under whose auspices those principles were first promulgated. He could sincerely say, on the part of those members of the administration and of himself, that there never was the slightest disposition to abandon those principles. Time was only wanting to show how decidedly and unequivocally they would be followed up.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1431 said, he would not attempt to follow the right hon. gentleman through the very complicated statement which he had just made. He must say, however, that he was still incredulous on many points; and representing as he did a large county, which was so closely connected with the shipping interest, he should feel it his duty to make a few observations in reply to them. Notwithstanding the arguments of the right hon. gentleman, it was an appalling prospect for himself, and those with whom he was connected, to see their property daily depreciated, and no remuneration for the expenditure of their capital. Was it then wonderful if he clung to the faintest hope, that some remedies might be devised to check the growing evil, in order that those who had, for centuries past, considered themselves under the protection of the government might be restored to something like their former state of prosperity. The shipowners believed their distress to be mainly owing to the competition with foreign vessels, which they were unable to keep up. The charge for freight was now so low, that some protection was absolutely neces-
1431Mr. Liddell
 recommended his gallant friend to withdraw the motion.Lord W. Powlett
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of151,4152,460,50023,1951827
151,4152,460,50023,1951827167,6362,635,64424,6251896
167,6362,635,64424,6251896Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.
Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of151,4152,460,50023,1951827
151,4152,460,50023,1951827167,6362,635,64424,6251896
167,6362,635,64424,6251896Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.
Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.1420l.l.s.1419d.130,49419,0351827
130,49419,0351827149,89420,4091826
149,89420,4091826Seamen.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Ships and Shipping.
130,49419,0351827
130,49419,0351827149,89420,4091826
149,89420,4091826Seamen.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Ships and Shipping.1418151,4152,460,50023,1951828
151,4152,460,50023,1951828167,6362,635,00024,6251827
167,6362,635,00024,6251827Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.
151,4152,460,50023,1951828
151,4152,460,50023,1951828167,6362,635,00024,6251827
167,6362,635,00024,6251827Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.l.l.166,3332,050,94423,1991822
166,3332,050,94423,1991822178,0002,078,40025,8641817
178,0002,078,40025,8641817Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.
166,3332,050,94423,1991822
166,3332,050,94423,1991822178,0002,078,40025,8641817
178,0002,078,40025,8641817Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.1417 wished to call the attention of the House to what the real nature of his motion was; because it had been much misunderstood, both in that House and
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of151,4152,460,50023,1951827
151,4152,460,50023,1951827167,6362,635,64424,6251896
167,6362,635,64424,6251896Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.
Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of
16,221175,1441,430being a diminution of151,4152,460,50023,1951827
151,4152,460,50023,1951827167,6362,635,64424,6251896
167,6362,635,64424,6251896Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.
Seamen.Tonnage.ships or vesesls.1420l.l.s.1419d.130,49419,0351827
130,49419,0351827149,89420,4091826
149,89420,4091826Seamen.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Ships and Shipping.
130,49419,0351827
130,49419,0351827149,89420,4091826
149,89420,4091826Seamen.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Ships and Shipping.1418151,4152,460,50023,1951828
151,4152,460,50023,1951828167,6362,635,00024,6251827
167,6362,635,00024,6251827Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.
151,4152,460,50023,1951828
151,4152,460,50023,1951828167,6362,635,00024,6251827
167,6362,635,00024,6251827Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Snipping.l.l.166,3332,050,94423,1991822
166,3332,050,94423,1991822178,0002,078,40025,8641817
178,0002,078,40025,8641817Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.
166,3332,050,94423,1991822
166,3332,050,94423,1991822178,0002,078,40025,8641817
178,0002,078,40025,8641817Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.
Seamen.Tonnage.Ships and Shipping.1417General Gascoyne
 said, he would not press the motion to a division; and one reason which principally induced him not to do so, was the advanced period of the session.General Gascoyne
14111410 said, he would make a few observations upon the concluding part of the right hon. gentleman's speech. The right hon. gentleman said, he thought the period too early for inquiry; but, if evidence was to be the rule on which that House was to proceed, the inquiry ought
14111410Mr. Hume
1433l.s.s.s.s.1432s.l.s.l.l.l.s.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.s.d.d.d.d.s.s.s.in toto denied the expressions attributed to him by the hon. member for Worcester. What he had, on a former occasion, said was, not that British ships could be built, but that they could be sailed in competition with foreign shipping. This arose from their greater durability, their cheaper insurance, and the other palpable advantages which were known to belong to them. As a proof of this superiority, he need only refer to the report of the committee on foreign trade. Now, how did the fact stand, as to the comparative business of the British and foreign shipping in the general trade of this country? There had been, as the return of British shipping showed, an increase between the years 1827 and 1824, of five hundred and fifty-six thousand tons, and of thirty-four thousand four hundred and sixty-six men, and a decrease of the foreign to the extent of seven thousand, seven hundred and forty-eight tons, and of one thousand four hundred and ten men. And this comparative increase in favour of this country, was observable in the first year of the operation of the new measures, which were said to have inflicted so much evil. There had been, at the same time, a great increase of shipbuilding in the colonies; still he denied 1433l.s.s.s.s.1432s.l.s.l.l.l.s.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.s.d.d.d.d.s.s.s.in totoMr. Poulett Thompson
1416 said, that of the policy of this tax, and of its justice he
1416Mr. Robert Grant
1421 said, that if he did not follow the hon. general into detail in the statement which he had delivered to the House, it was not from any disrespect to him, or because he undervalued the importance of the subject; but because he considered the present period was too late in the session to enter upon the subject with the hope of any practical result. It was the intention of his right hon. colleague and himself to go into a full consideration of the subject during the recess. It was impossible that either he or his right hon. colleague could have sat so long in the House, and voted so often on these matters, without having formed an opinion upon them; but as members were sometimes impressed with opinions formed by party connexions, it was the intention of himself and his right hon. friend, the President of the Board of Trade, to take a review of, and to make up their minds on, the whole system of our trade and navigation, as if they had never before given an opinion upon them, and as if their minds were, as respected them, a sheet of blank paper. If he were to enter into any controversy on the question at present, it would, he conceived, interfere with that dispassionate view of the subject which it was their intention to take; and, therefore, instead of going now into a discussion,
1421Mr. Courtenay
 could not positively speak as to what he might have said sixteen years before, but he conscientiously believed that it was intended by the clause in question to give to the presidencies the power of taxation to as great an extent as possible, subject to the control of the directors. The right hon. gentleman had said, that not only the directors, but the government, had led them to believe, that an open trade was to be established with India. He could take on himself to say, having then filled the situation he had lately held, that this was not the opinion of either the directors or the government. It was not the opinion of lord Buckingham or Mr. Sullivan, or any of the members of the Board of Control: it was not the opinion of the humble individual who was then addressing them, nor was it the tendency of any advice he had ever given; and he might say, it would not be the tendency of any advice he might give in future, though the measures he should recommend, and hope to see carried into execution, would be to give liberal facilities to trade.Mr. Courtenay
1409140814071406 said, he could not help doubting whether his right hon. friend, if a select committee were appointed, would be able, in the slightest degree, to obtain the objects enumerated in his speech. The petition simply pointed out the objections which the petitioners entertained, with respect to the stamp regulations of Calcutta; and it called on the House to pass a declaratory act, denying the right of the government of India to frame such a regulation. That being the scope of the petition, he doubted whether a committee appointed to consider its prayer, could inquire into the various objects mentioned by his right hon. friend. He admitted, however, that the subjects introduced by his right hon. friend were well worthy the attentive consideration of the House; and he trusted that, at a proper time, due attention would be paid to them. He now wished to call the attention of the House to a particular point, which his right hon. friend seemed to think of no importance whatever. Now, he contended that, by a clause of the 53rd of George 3rd, the go-
1409140814071406Mr. Wynn
 said, that this was the case of petitioners who were merchants of Calcutta, complaining of certain duties imposed upon stamps, which they denounced as illegal and impolitic. As to the impolicy of those duties, he would remind the House, that the governor and council had actually, of late years, remitted several duties and taxes. The happiness of the people of Calcutta had gone hand in hand with their commercial wealth and prosperity. The complaints put forth by those who styled themselves the advocates of India, were extremely ill-founded. He contended for the legality of the impost which had been petitioned against, and vindicated generally the government of the East-India Company. There was no real impediment, he observed, to British settlers going out to India; for none able and willing to be of use there were refused the facilities of going out. The hon. member then proceeded to notice the demand for a free press, which he strenuously combatted, and concluded by expressing his determination to resist the motion before the House.Mr. Astell
143614351434de novo.l. said, that at that late hour of the night he would not trespass long upon the attention of the House. In the preceding session he had stated at large his views and principles in reference to this important question; and it would be quite impossible for him to add any thing to the lucid statement of facts which his right hon. friend had laid before the House upon this almost exhausted subject. The hon. member for Dover had expressed his indignant feelings at the treatment which he (Mr. Huskisson) had received from certain parties. He could assure the House, that such treatment had in no degree disturbed the tranquillity of his feelings, and if they had paid but 200143614351434de novo.l.Mr. Huskisson
1413 said, he had long been resident amongst the British merchants in Calcutta, and was satisfied that no class of men possessed greater advantages, or had less to complain of, than those per-
1413Mr. Trant
pro tantol.14231422 said, that the right hon. gentleman, the Vice-president of the Board of Trade, had objected to the motion of the gallant general, that it offered no practical plan to the House. This, he conceived, was no answer to the motion. He contended, that the House was bound to entertain it. After the treatment which the shipowners had received last year, it was too much to say, that there was now no ground whatever for receiving the motion before them. But the right hon. gentleman had told them, that he and his colleague would give the subject their best attention during the recess, and would inquire whether the statement made was founded on fact. He was glad to hear this, as far as it went; but it should be recollected, that these were the assertions of men in office, who might not be in office next year. He appealed to the experience of the mutations in the government for the last eighteen months, whether much reliance could be placed on the declaration of a minister in one session, that he would take a certain course in the next. He would not go into any lengthened detail, but there were a few remarks which he felt it necessary to make. Instead of looking at the number of vessels employed, a better criterion of the state of our trade would be, to see what was the situation of the building trade, and whether the number of vessels built was on the increase or decline—whether steps were taken to supply the places of those which were going to decay. The ships already built were obliged to be used, at a profit or otherwise, to prevent their rotting in docks; but men did not build new ships, unless a prospect of employment was held out. Now, what was the state of ship-building in the last three years? In 1826, the number was one thousand five hundred and thirty-nine; in 1827, one thousand seven hundred and ninety; and in 1828, one thousand two hundred and eighty-five. It also appeared that in 182 5, the total num-
pro tantol.14231422Mr. Robinson
 said, he was sure that every member had listened with satisfaction to the speech of the noble lord, who had, he believed, for the first time, at any considerable length, addressed the House. That noble lord had evinced a knowledge of his subject that did him the greatest honour; and he had also evinced an extent of information which might prove highly serviceable to his country. He hailed the expression of liberal sentiments which had that night been elicited, as an auspicious commencement of a series of discussions which, he trusted, would terminate in the adoption of a wise and beneficial system of government in India, in the hope that measures of relief, of wisdom, of sound policy, would not be hereafter resisted, he consented to withdraw his motion, and would content himself for the present with intimating an intention of bringing the situation of India before parliament in the course of next session.Sir J. Mackintosh
1405l.1404l.l.l.14031402140114001399s.s.1398, in rising to present a petition from "the Inhabitants of Calcutta against the Imposition of a Stamp Tax," said, that whether he considered the place from which the petition came, or the nature of the grievances of which it complained, he felt himself borne out in stating, that the petitioners possessed peculiar claims upon the attention of the House. In the first place, it related to a grievance in regard to the raising of money upon British subjects—a matter which was an
1405l.1404l.l.l.14031402140114001399s.s.1398Sir James Mackintosh
 disapproved of the motion. Indeed, it was one by no means calculated to give satisfaction to the ship-owners themselves. If persisted in, he should therefore vote against it.Sir M. W. Ridley
 suggested the propriety of postponing the bill to the next session; not from any unfriendly feeling towards its principle, but from a wish that it should be rendered as perfect as possible, and the public mind prepared for any change which might be deemed expedient.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred in recommending postponement.Mr. Heathcote
1438 said, he should oppose the bill, as he considered it to be highly injurious both to the landed and commercial interests. Gentlemen when they now mortgaged their property, knew that as long as they paid their five per cent limited interest they were all safe; but if this bill were passed there would be no end to the extortion practised upon
1438Mr. Davenport
 said, that though he agreed with the hon. mover that something ought to be done, yet it would be necessary to draw a wide distinction between some classes of the community and others: he, however, was willing to admit, that it would be beneficial to all, if those Jaws were greatly modified, if not entirely repealed. On the understanding that further proceedings on the bill would be abandoned during the present session, he should vote with the hon. gentleman, and had no doubt that, in the course of the next session, some measure would be proposed by the government, that would make a considerable improvement in the law as it now stood.Mr. Herries
1443 was surprised that the noble lord should be so strenuous in supporting the interest of one class only of those who were most interested in the present question. He differed from the noble lord, and conceived that the measure would not have the effect of benefitting the landed interest. It was said, that if some such relief were not afforded, the proprietors of land, when in want of money, must have recourse to annuities to raise it; but he would venture to assert, that if the Annuity-office were searched, instances would be rarely found where fee-simple estates were encumbered with annuities. He thought that the law respecting annuities might be altered with advantage; and, as far as the penalties under the present Usury-laws could with propriety be modified, he would wish to see it done. If juries, for instance, instead of being obliged to return their verdicts upon the bare wording of the act of parliament, were obliged to judge, not only of the law but of the fact also, it would in a great measure disarm the effects of the penal-
1443Mr. D. W. Harvey
1440 said, he had been a close observer of the operation of the Usury-laws, and was convinced of their injurious effects. The commercial body and the landed interest were both equal sufferers by them. The commercial body evaded them by tricks; and the landed interest by borrowing money on annuities. Annuities not only raised the rate of interest against the borrower, but also locked up a certain amount of capital, which would otherwise be producing its effect on the marketable industry of the community. The Usury-laws, were also bad in another respect. They were framed in the most general terms, in order to avoid any evasion of them; and the consequence was, that many transactions, in which the parties had no intention to take usurious interest, had been declared tainted with usury. He was therefore anxious to see the present laws altered; although the alteration which he was anxious to see effected was very different from that which the hon. member for Dover now proposed. Any person who had read Mr. Bentham's "Defence of Usury," would agree, that the argument which that learned person had employed against the present laws was unanswerable. But men found, in many cases, that theory went one way and practice the other. Indefensible as the present laws were in theory, it was impossible to deny that some benefit had arisen from them. There was no inconvenience Celt from the Usury-laws, when the market rate of interest fell below the legal standard: the inconvenience arose when the rate of interest exceeded it. The advantage of the Usury-laws in such a contingency was, that they studied and controlled the rate of interest; especially so far as the landholders were concerned. It was by thus looking at the working of the Usury-laws, that he had come to the conclusion, that though they were, in many cases, injurious to all classes of the community, the total repeal of them would be injurious. His objection to the bill before the House was, its
1440Mr. Sugden
 thought, that unless the right hon. gentleman would give a distinct pledge, on the part of the government, to bring forward a measure of this sort next session, or unless he would promise to support the measure when again produced by the hon. member for Dover, that hon. member ought not to withdraw his bill at this moment.Sir G. Philips
 opposed the bill. It was assumed that money was like any other commodity; but he contended that it was not. No man could go into the market to borrow money openly as he could go to buy commodities. The hon. member read a passage from Mr. Rothschild's evidence, to show that doing away the legal standard of interest would be an injury to the landed interest.Mr. Bright
minimumlll1441ll contended, that the bill was as sweeping a repeal of the Usury-laws as any that had ever been proposed to parliament. He agreed that intolerable hardships arose to the commercial body from the existence of these laws; and to any plan that could remove those hardships he should have no objection. The hon. gentleman then referred to the evidence of Mr. Preston, who was examined by the committee on the state of the Usury-laws, and who gave it as his opinion, that the whole landed interest of the kingdom would be seriously injured by the repeal of those laws. What was the extent of the value of the landed interest of England? In 1804, the whole rental of England, that was to say, the whole annual amount of its land, amounted to 38,000,000minimumlll1441llMr. L. Foster
 approved of the principle of the bill; and, with regard to the object of affording facilities to the mercantile world for borrowing money in times of momentary pressure, he thought the suggestions of the hon. member deserved the best consideration; but, at the same time, he thought the measure ought to be confined to commercial concerns, and that real or landed securities should remain untouched. The hon. member for Dover deserved the thanks of the country for what he had done; but the subject was one which ought to be taken up by the government.Mr. Irving
 observed, that though he intended to press the bill to a second reading that evening, he would not carry it further during the present session, on the understanding that the chancellor of the Exchequer would, in the course of the next session, introduce some measure on the subject.Mr. P. Thompson
1439 said, that the laws relating to usury had been referred to a committee in 1818, and that committee had made a report which was extremely favourable to their repeal. Since that time four different bills had been brought in for the repeal of the Usury-laws; and the principle of all of them had been admitted and recognized by the House. Considering the particular situation in which the chancellor of the Exchequer had
1439Mr. K. Douglas
 observed, that the hon. member for Cheshire had founded his objections to the bill on the ground that it would be disadvantageous to the landed interest. Now, in order to make out a fair case of opposition, the hon. member should prove, that the laws which it intended to repeal worked favourably to the public at large; for though the landed interest was entitled to a large protection, he could not admit that laws so penal in their consequences should be allowed to remain on the Statute-book, merely because it was stated, that they acted unfavourably on that particular class. If hon. gentlemen would look at the report of 1819, they would see that more conclusive documents in favour of the repeal of the Usury-laws could not be placed before any legislative assembly. Now, what was the use of that report, if this bill were now to be opposed on the ground that the country had flourished under the operation of these laws? The fact was, that the country had flourished in spite of them. As his hon. friend could not effect any practical good by his bill at that period of the session, he hoped that the recommendation of the hon. member opposite would be adopted. At the same time he would vote for the motion if pressed to a division.Mr. Robinson
1442 said, that as far as the opinions of all classes could be collected, they were unanimous in reprobating the present Usury-laws. Every body admitted their inefficiency in checking and apportioning the rate of interest for the loan of money. Those laws enacted, that the holders of money shall not make the best use of it, but shall be restricted to a limited rate of interest. When the Usury-laws were first enacted, it was considered right to regulate the rate of interest payable for the loan of money, and to inflict penalties, if-more interest were taken than the law allowed. The reign of Henry 8th was full of examples of a mischievous interference with respect to this subject. Penalties the most oppressive were had recourse to, to regulate and control the affairs of men of business. But the present time was essentially different from that to which he had referred. Every man should now be left to the care of his own individual interest; and no vexatious impediments should interfere to prevent
1442Lord Palmerston
 said, he did not rise to oppose the resolution. He had very often pointed out parts of the military expenditure which might be saved; but, as he saw no disposition in the House to make any reduction of the public burthens, he thought it would be absurd to take up the time of the House uselessly.Colonel Davies
 said, the danger was, that these sinecures might be bestowed on individuals on account of political connexions, and not in consequence of public services.Colonel Davies
s.l. said, that Dartmouth had been in the hands of civilians of the same family for a long time; not for any laudable purpose, but for the most suspicious possible. The holder of it had great interest in the borough, which returned two members to parliament. He should feel it his duty to move, that the grant be reduced by 173s.l.Sir James Graham
 said, he believed the fort had been built by the family, in whose hands the office of governor had so long remained.Captain Bastard
 thought, that, as a finance committee was sitting, whose business it would be to investigate all matters of this nature, the subject had better be left to them.Mr. Maberly
 said, that if the right hon. gentleman would postpone the grant until it was ascertained whether the fort had been built by the family, he would postpone his motion.Sir J. Graham
1453l.l.l. thought that much of this large expense might have been saved. This militia had cost the country 2,500,0001453l.l.l.Mr. S. Rice
 said, that the imputations cast upon government were not warranted by facts. When he was a member of the Irish government, he had brought in a bill to reduce the militia staff of Ireland, by which a saving had been effected to the country. He thought that parliament would very properly object to invest government with a power to deal with this constitutional force according to [their discretion. Whatever power was granted to the executive by the legislature on the subject, ought to be strictly defined. He would not maintain that it might not become expedient to alter the constitution of this force, in a manner which might save expense without depriving the country of the benefit of the militia service at the breaking out of a war. He denied that the present system of ballot and training was not useful. The ballot gave a certain number of men, who were bound to perform duty when called upon; and it was necessary to know where men were to be found on a sudden occasion. The government would submit a plan to the House when it was prepared, by which a reduction might be made by definite rather than general powers to be granted by the legislature.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 saw no reason why Cork, which was a wealthy city, should not maintain a literary society, if it chose to have one, at its own expense.Mr. R. Gordon
l.l.l.1455 said, the institution was established in 1802 by private subscription, and was continued'
l.l.l.1455The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.seriatim was of opinion, that unless the pesent Finance committee took up all these subjects, and reported on them as that of 1817 had done, l.seriatimMr. S. Rice
145914581457l. rose, and after alluding to the various changes that had taken place in the Colonial office, to which might be attributed a great portion of the delay which the measures proposed by the right hen. gentleman had met with, he said, that at that late hour of the night, and in the exhausted state in which he found himself, he should take care not to waste any part of that time and attention which the kindness of the House usually bestowed upon him, by unnecessary delay, or still more unnecessary apologies. Without further comment, therefore, he should proceed at once. The objects embraced in the motion of which he had given notice, were embodied in the following resolutions, which he should now read, as the foundation for those arguments with which he should afterwards trouble the House. The first resolution which he should propose was, "That it be an instruction to the committee to receive a clause for the immediate establishment of trial by jury in New South Wales and Van Dieman's Land (excepting the penal settlement for offenders there convicted), and for directing the governor and council of each colony respectively, to frame regulations for that purpose, respecting the number and qualifications of jurors, either in the whole colony, or in any districts which may seem to them to require modification." The second resolution was,—"That it be an instruction to the committee to receive a clause to provide for the election of one-third of the legislative councils of both the said colonies (till assemblies shall be called by his majesty), to be chosen for five years, by all persons enjoying a clear yearly income of 100145914581457l.Sir J. Mackintosh
146214611460 said, he would offer a few observations in support of the measure which had been originally proposed. It had not been framed without a careful investigation into the circumstances of the
146214611460Mr. Huskisson
 said, he had always felt a great interest in the fate of New South Wales, which he could not avoid thinking was destined to spread the British language to as wide as extent in the east, as our other colonies had carried it in the west. He was, therefore, much delighted to hear from the right hon. Gentleman who spoke last, that so much of the constitutional doctrine of the mother country ought to be infused into the government of a colony, which was rapidly rising to power and importance. He felt satisfied, from the statement of the right hon. gentleman, that in a country, where so large a proportion of the population were slaves, trial by jury could not be yet introduced with safety. He thought, however, that there might be a slight mixture of representation introduced. For that purpose he would give the new settlers a vote for the election of a representative; and he thought that by these means the colonists might gradually acquire the advantage of a representative government.Mr. D. Gilbert
1463 was sorry that the inhabitants of this colony had been pronounced unworthy to be admitted to the privileges of the British constitution. It was said, that trial by jury should not be introduced suddenly into New South Wales. In proof of the fallacy of that position, he would instance the cases of Florida and Louisiana, into which trial by jury was introduced one week after the colonies were ceded to the United States, and its introduction rendered the inhabitants good subjects and good members of society. He
1463Mr. Hume
 intimated, that when the House went into committee he should propose to leave out the clause giving suitors in the courts of justice in New South Wales, the power of appeal to the Privy Council.Mr. Warburton
castes eulogised the bill, which he considered admirably adapted to carry into effect the objects it had it view. New South Wales was placed in a different situation from that of other colonies; the continual influx of a certain class of persons into that colony opposed a bar to the sudden introduction of legislative improvements, and created and maintained castesMr. Stuart Wortley
 said, he could state, upon the authority of persons well acquainted with New South Wales, that it would be impossible to introduce either trial by jury or a legislative assembly there, under the present circumstances of the colony. He would suggest, however, that the official appointments should be published in the London Gazette, that the public might have an opportunity of judging of the character of the individuals selected to fill such situation.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that the governor of the colony had the power of extending to the colonists the right of trial by jury, if he should deem it expedient.Mr. H. Twiss
 here intimated that he should not press his amendments—They were accordingly put and negatived.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, it was not desirable to break down a force like the militia, which was capable of being called into active service at a short notice. If war were to take place with France, now that the facilities of steam navigation were so extended, the services of the militia would be indispensable. It might be desirable to give government the power of suspending the ballot; but even that should not be done lightly and as a matter of course; for it had been before refused by parliament, on the ground of its being unconstitutional. He was colonel of a corps of militia, which consisted of one thousand two hundred men, and he had that morning asked his adjutant how many men would be likely to turn out if they were called on. The adjutant replied that one thousand men would assemble in the course of a few days. Upon the whole, he was inclined to think that some reductions might-advantageously be made, but he would never consent to any proposition for putting down the service altogether.Colonel Wood
l.l.l. said, that the expense of their regular force during the last eleven years had amounted to 5,410,000l.l.l.Mr. Warburton
 said, he had, last session, suggested the expediency of establishing one or more committees to inquire into such subjects. Discussions, such as the present, were productive of no good, and only served to sink the House of Commons in the estimation of the country.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 replied, that the situation had been, for upwards of a century and a half, in the same family.Sir H. Hardinge
1452l. next moved "that 283,1931452l.Sir H. Hardinge
l.1451 did not defend these garrisons upon any other principle, than that they were gifts in the disposal of the Crown, for the reward of long and distinguished services. If the present mode of disposing of them could not stand upon that principle, he readily admitted they
l.1451Sir H. Hardinge
1456 was apprehensive, if the reduction was so sudden, that the institution would be deprived of means to defray the salaries of the highly scientific lecturers in the institution. The argument that England maintained its own scientific, literary, and mechanics' institutions, was not fairly applied to the question, because England was wealthy; Ireland excessively impoverished. As
1456Mr. North
l. remarked, that whilst we were contributing to improve the people of Cork by hundreds of pounds at a vote, their own contribution to the object in view amounted to no more in hand than 170l.Mr. Hume
 asked, why were they not called on to make similar grants to Limerick or Waterford, as well as to Cork?Mr. Hume
 said, he should be glad to know what were the meritorious services of the governor of Dartmouth?Mr. Hume
 said, he thought there were a variety of items, which, with a view to economy, might be saved. The sum now called for was composed, in a great measure, of sinecures. Now, whether a sinecure was civil, military, or clerical, he felt it right to make war upon it. After enumerating the different garrisons where governors received salaries, although there were no garrisons at the stations, the hon. member expressed a hope, that the government would allow these sinecure garrisons to expire with the lives of their present possessors.Mr. Hume
l. said, that many officers received 500l.Sir J. Wrottesley
1454 said, he did not think it right to abolish the militia force. In 1793, the military establishment was so small, that the country, at the breaking out of the war, was absolutely dependent; for its security upon the militia. He would, however, point out a plan by; which the efficiency of the militia could be increased without any additional expense. Within the last thirteen years, the infantry of the line had been greatly improved, whilst no attention had been paid to those improvements by the militia; and were a war to break out, the Serjeants of militia would know nothing beyond what they were informed of at the close of the last conflict. There ought to be a permanent militia force kept up, with a due proportion between the numbers of officers and men, and a constant system of exercise
1454Sir John Wrottesley
l.l. said, it was high time retrenchment should be introduced in every branch of expenditure, and he should therefore move, as an amendment, that the vote be reduced from 1,500l.l.Lord Morpeth
 said, that the reduction was very moderate, and he should certainly divide the committee on the question.Lord Morpeth
1496l.l. said, that notwithstanding the ingenious and cautious speech of his right hon. friend, he should not be doing his duty if he did not say, that he considered the whole conduct of ministers, with respect to this transaction, as mean, shuffling, and underhanded. If he objected to the misappropriation of the fund in question, it was not from any want of respect to the distinguished individuals concerned in it. He regretted, indeed, that the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Herries) had thought it necessary for his case, to bring forward their names; appealing, as it were, to their immediate friends to deal lightly with the present charge, in consideration of the part which they had taken in it. Up to the present moment, no account had been laid before parliament of the sums expended in the erection of Buckingham-palace. It appeared, however, that the whole amount expended by the Woods and Forests upon that building, was only 27,0001496l.l.Mr. Stanley
l.1498l.1497l. wished, laying aside all technicalities, to come to the inquiry, whether the transaction alluded to was an abuse of such a nature as to call for the public censure of two individuals, who were no longer in a condition to defend themselves; and he believed that upon such an inquiry, so conducted, their conduct would appear to be perfectly innocent in granting the warrants for the application of the money, which they never thought could involve them in any charge of illegal or unconstitutional conduct. He could undertake to show, that the course which they had adopted was warranted by act of parliament, and that if any blame attached to them, it also attached to that House. The main question was, whether they had a legal power to do as they had done, or whether, having that power, it was still, though legal, so unconstitutional in its nature and bearing, as to require to be marked by the displeasure of that House. He could not disconnect that transaction from the period of the treaty of Paris, and he only wished that those who opposed the measure so much, would refer to the debates of 1816. There they would find that, in consequence of the triumphant issue of the war, this country had become possessed of three different sums of money from France. The first was 700,000l.1498l.1497l.Mr. Secretary Peel
1499 complained, that the right hon. gentleman had attempted to enlist the feelings of the House in favour of distinguished individuals, to the neglect of those higher and more solemn duties which they owed the constitution. But it
1499Lord John Russell
1501l.l.l.1500 said, that although the subject had been already discussed in such a manner as to exhaust every topic of argument, he could not allow it to go to a division, without offering a few words to the House. And here, at the outset, he could not avoid joining his noble friend in his complaint, that an attempt had been made to take advantage of their feelings, by the introduction of topics partly of a private, partly of a political, and partly of a constitutional nature. There could be no doubt but that the tendency, if not the desire, with which these topics were introduced, was to prevent the members of that House from performing the paramount duty which they owed to the people. He was unwilling to utter any expression which could be interpreted into a censure of one whose loss he greatly deplored. As much did he feel unwilling to censure a noble lord, who was prevented by calamity from defending his own conduct; or another noble lord who was alive but called to another place, and whose policy for the last four or five years had his decided approbation. The right hon. gentleman had talked of the slips and inadvertencies of public men, but they were slips and inadvertencies through which the public had become losers. Should it be considered as a loan? He was afraid it partook more of the nature of a gift. He did not approve of all the words of his hon. friend's motion; but so far as they went to denounce the appli-
1501l.l.l.1500Mr. Brougham
14871486l.l.14851484 said, the reason why he ventured to present himself so early in the debate to the attention of the House, arose from the circumstance of the peculiar office which he held at the time having rendered him conversant with the transaction to which this motion had reference. It had been stated by the hon. member, with all that gravity which showed that he attached a deep importance to the question, that a transaction of more grievance to the subject, and in more direct violation of the privileges of parliament, had not occurred since the Revolution. If the subject were indeed of that nature, a heavy responsibility would attach to one individual, who, though still alive, was no longer in a condition to vindicate
14871486l.l.14851484Mr. Herries
1490l.l.l.1489l.l.1488 said, that, having been occupied for some time in the finance committee, he thought it right, in the absence of the hon. chairman, to put the House in possession of the veal facts of the case. Although the hon. member for Durham had already so fully stated them, they had yet been so changed and turned about by the tortuous speech of the right hon. gentleman, that the House might be presumed scarcely to know the real undisguised truth on which they were to form their decision. He could not agree with the right hon. gentleman, who would have them to depart thence without deeming it their duty to take any notice whatever of the subject. In a case like this, where the character and dignity of the House were concerned, they should not assume, upon the word of any individual, that government had been guilty of no improper conduct. The right hon. gentleman appeared to follow a rather extraordinary course respecting this question, as when it was canvassed in the finance committee, he had admitted, that "it was certainly rather irregular." He also said, if his memory did not deceive him, "he wished it had been otherwise." In reply, he remembered to have himself said, that as irregularity was acknowledged, it was their duty to investigate, whether some
1490l.l.l.1489l.l.1488Mr. Baring
l.l.l.l.l.1491l. said, that the hon. mover had, from an imperfect knowledge of the facts, misrepresented his part of this transaction. He remembered the matter began thus:—One morning he was with lord Liverpool and Mr. Canning, when a question was put to Mr. M'Kenzie, one of the commissioners for French claims, when that gentleman explained, that 500,000l.l.l.l.l.1491l.Mr. Arbuthnot
 observed, that since his return to office, no subject had occupied so much of his attention as this bill. Until lately he had hoped to be able to pass the bill into a law during the present session. That hope had now vanished;— but it was satisfactory to know, that the difficulties which opposed the passing of it were not connected with the principle of the measure. He would briefly state the circumstances which induced him not to attempt to pass the bill during the present session. If the bill were to pass, it must contain a clause for affording compensation to those holders of patent offices whose interests might be affected by it.— Nothing could be more disadvantageous to the public, than those partial compensations. Bills of this nature, whilst they diminished the emoluments of some patent offices, increased those of others. Then, when the latter came to be dealt with, the public were obliged to make compensation for the increased emoluments occasioned by previous reforms. Since the bill was introduced into the House, a commission had been appointed to inquire into the practice in the superior courts of law.—It was probable that the commission would suggest some plan for dealing with the patent offices generally. At all events he was disposed to wait until he could ascertain the intentions of the commissioners on that point. He thought it would be much more advantageous to consider the claims of the holders of patent offices altogether, than to go on making compensation by instalments. It was with great regret he saw that all the pains he had bestowed on the bill would he unavailing, so tar as regarded the present session; but he felt that he should be acting for the interests of the public to abandon the measure for the present.Mr. Secretary Peel
"Resolved,—That the application of any sum of unappropriated money, or surpluses of funds, to uses not voted or addressed for by parliament, is a misapplication of the public money, and a violation of the privileges of this House."l.l.l.l.l.1483l.l.l.1482l.l.l.l.l.1481l.l.l.l.l.1480l.l.l.l.1479l.1478l.l.l.1477 said, he rose, in pursuance of his notice, to address the House on a subject which was deeply interesting to all who had any regard to the first principles of the constitution. The jealousy of the House with respect to the issue of Public Money was proved, by the records of parliament, to have existed as long as the parliament itself; and he needed not occupy the time of the House by any argument of his to vindicate the feelings which had given rise to that jealousy. He took it to be an established principle, that the House of Commons had a right to control the expenditure of public money, come in what shape and from what quarter it might into the hands of the executive government; and he boldly asserted, that any deviation from that principle and rule of conduct was a violation of the privileges of the House, and, on the part of the government, a censurable dereliction of its duty to the public. He had now had the honour of sitting nearly forty years in the House of Commons, and he had taken up this subject from a conviction that it was his duty not to overlook one of the most flagrant and daring violations of the privileges of parliament, which had taken place since the æra of the Revolution. The statements which he was then about to make arose out of the papers which had been laid upon their table. They arose, also, out of facts which had come to his knowledge from other quarters. He believed those facts to be true, and he challenged the government to contradict them. We must all recollect the unfortunate war which had so long distracted and desolated Europe, and which had burthened England with a load of debt, which was hourly consuming its energies. It had entailed lasting misery, he was afraid, upon the country; and from that war, and from its consequences, the present motion took its rise. At the close of that unfortunate war, it was found that many of the subjects of Great Britain had strong claims on the government of France for property which had been unjustly confiscated by it during the Revolution; and by the treaty of Paris, in May, 1814, it was stipulated, that the government of France should pay
"Resolved,—That the application of any sum of unappropriated money, or surpluses of funds, to uses not voted or addressed for by parliament, is a misapplication of the public money, and a violation of the privileges of this House."l.l.l.l.l.1483l.l.l.1482l.l.l.l.l.1481l.l.l.l.l.1480l.l.l.l.1479l.1478l.l.l.1477Mr. M. A. Taylor
14941493 said, that the present question had been brought forward most irregularly. His hon. friend who had introduced it had, with his usual talent for detail, ransacked every source of information, and brought every thing, both from the records of the House and elsewhere, that could in any way assist his views, or be analogous to the case which he sup-
14941493Mr. Huskisson
1492l.l.l. said, that lord Goderich had expressly called for the original grant for Buckingham-house, "for repairs and fitment;" and when he called for 200,0001492l.l.l.Lord Howick
15091508l.l.15071506l.1505150415031502 said, he rose pursuant to notice, to submit to the House a motion, connected with the subject of Emigration. His resolution was:—"That this House will, early in the next session of parliament, take into consideration the expediency of adopting such measures, whether of Emigration upon an extended scale, or otherwise, as may appear to be most calculated to relieve the pauperism of Ireland, and to prevent the injurious effects arising there from upon the condition of the labouring classes of this country. "Now his first duty was, to prove that a pauper-population did exist in Ireland, and that this country was called upon, by selfish motives, not to mention any other, to remove the injurious consequences which that population must produce upon the community at large. Now, he would establish the fact of the existence of extensive pauperism in Ireland, upon the evidence of Dr. Doyle, the catholic bishop, and of the bishop of Limerick. The bishop of Limerick was examined before the emigration committee, in 1826, and on
15091508l.l.15071506l.1505150415031502Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, that his right hon. friend had been hardly dealt with. The hon. member for Wicklow had sneered at him, as if he were the author of a new scheme. But emigration was assuredly no new scheme. It had been going on, in all countries, greatly to their benefit, and especially in Scotland and Ireland. His hon. friends were mistaken in supposing, that it was meant to encourage the emigration of persons of small capital. On the contrary, it was intended to give them every inducement to remain, by carrying off the pauper-population. It appeared, from the reports, that twenty-five thousand persons emigrated annually. These persons were the small capitalists; and it was impossible to put a stop to their emigration, except by supporting another system of emigration out of a distinct fund, which would keep down the pauper-population of those countries. Many Quakers had lately emigrated from the north of Ireland. They were of that valuable class of small and industrious capitalists; who had been actually squeezed out by the surplus portion to which he had alluded. His right hon. friend's proposition was not intended to aggravate that evil, but to remedy it. Nothing could be more unjust than to charge on the landlords of Ireland the state of the pauper-population. If his right hon. friend could shape his proposition into a practical measure, the landlords of Ireland would be most willing to assist in carrying it into effect. It was not intended as a system of compulsory transportation; but as a means of carrying into effect the natural tendency of a redundant population to emigrate. His hon. friends preferred a casual to a systematic emigration; but, did they know the obstacles which opposed a casual emigration? did they know the laws which had been passed in the United States to prevent it? He thought that government would do well to take up the subject of emigration, and come forward early in the next session with a plan to that effect.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
1513 said, that in the premises on which this question rested, there
1513Mr. Warburton
1514 said, that if the right hon. gentleman succeeded in carrying his scheme of emigration into effect, the first result of it would be to elevate the remaining pauper-population of Ireland in the scale of comfort; the next would he to check the increasing population of that country, by doing away with that recklessness which led to so many early and improvident marriages. Another benefit of such a scheme would be, that it would tend collaterally to improve the condition of the poor in England. At present, the state of the English poor was rendered much worse than it otherwise would be, by the great influx of paupers from Ireland, who undersold the English labourers in every article of labour. Formerly, the
1514Mr. Slaney
bona fidel.1518in futuro1517l.1516l.l.1515 said, that no one could be less disposed than he was, to under-rate the importance of this subject, or the ability with which his right hon. friend had introduced it to the House, or the zeal with which he had persevered in it, under all the discouragements which had been thrown in his way. At the same time, he thought that his right hon. friend had submitted his present proposition to the House, more with a view of producing a discussion, than of taking the sense of the House upon it; because, independently of the substantial objections which existed against his right hon. friend's resolution, there were objections in point of parliamentary form, which he considered to be unanswerable. There might be circumstances, in which, with a view to allay prejudice or to remove irritation, it might be desirable for the House to pledge itself to the course which it would pursue in the next session; but such a proceeding could only by justified under particular circumstances of necessity, and therefore ought to be resorted to with caution and forbearance. His right hon. friend proposed, that the House should pledge itself to take into consideration, early next session, the propriety of adopting certain measures of emigration. Now, he should have objected to such a proposition had the measures to be adopted been definitely described; still more must he object to it, when those measures were vaguely and
bona fidel.1518in futuro1517l.1516l.l.1515Mr. Secretary Peel
shortly replied, and consented to withdraw his motion.r. Wilmot Horton
1512 thought, that emigration might be applied to Ireland in its present state, as blood-letting was to plethoric patients; but not upon any systematic plan, the effect of which would be to tempt the very cream and essence of the population to leave the country. He alluded to the industrious and enterprising class, who possessed small capital. He was far from imputing to the landlords of Ireland a want of feeling; but he would say that they were deeply responsible for the miseries of Ireland. He concurred in opinion with lady Glengall, that they were so accustomed to the sight of wretchedness, that the best-natured among them had ceased to regard it with that disgust which it was naturally calculated to produce. But while he opposed the application of any fund to the encouragement of emigration, he thought that one fourth of the money might be beneficially employed in encouraging industry at home. If he were asked, what, in his opinion, parliament ought to do for Ireland, he would say, let England, instead of looking to Poland and Canada for supplies of corn, encourage agriculture in Ireland, by securing to her a fair price for that commodity. Encouragement would produce industry; industry would produce tranquillity; and that quick intelligent people would soon acquire all the advantages of civi-
1512Colonel Trench
1510 observed, that the right hon. gentleman was anxious that the Irish landlord should contribute towards the support and improvement of the poor. He fully concurred in this opinion: let the landlord but commence an improvement—let the tenant but follow his example—and the system of emigration now proposed by the right hon. gentleman would be found unnecessary. The question of emigration had been so often discussed in that House, that he did not feel warranted to enter into details upon it. There was hardly a gentleman in Ireland who did not yearly lose a number of persons off his land in this way. This was all well enough; but the right hon. gentleman was anxious to introduce an organized system of emigration—the very thing which he was anxious to avoid. Much might be effected by the Irish land-
1510Mr. James Grattan
1511 said, that if the subjects of the present motion were, unhappily, by circumstances degraded, it had been acknowledged that that degradation was not a degradation of character, but of condition. They were on all hands allowed to be laborious, moral, and honest. He would never consent to any arrangement, which should limit the free intercourse between the two countries. All attempts to introduce the Poor-laws into Ireland would be found to be futile. To talk of forcing one class of persons to provide for the well-being of another, in a country divided as Ireland was now, was an absolute de-
1511Mr. Spring Rice
 said, he had been actuated by no personal feeling in the selection he had made. Nay, he had never even exchanged a word with any of the commissioners. Moreover, no one of the commissioners had made any application on the subject; they had each of them been invited to undertake the task; he believed that the proposal was totally unexpected by each of them; and it had been so made that they should consider themselves under obligation to no one for their appointment. As to Mr. Humphreys, the omission of that gentleman was, he would contend, perfectly consistent with the object of the commission. Mr. Humphreys had written a work which had provoked a controversy; and if Mr. Humphreys had been put upon the commission, so also must those who had engaged in the controversy against him. This would not have effected the object of the commission. It was much better that persons who had not committed themselves to any particular points should constitute the commission. If the commissioners thought proper to avail themselves of the services of Mr. Humphreys, they might do so.—They might receive both the evidence and the suggestions of Mr. Humphreys. It was thought that the commission should consist of no more than five; and that a common lawyer, two conveyancers, and two practitioners in a court of equity, were the most proper persons to make up that number.Mr. Secretary Peel
1526 could by no means agree in the rule, that persons who had showed a disposition to reform a part of the law, should be excluded from a commission appointed to inquire into that part of the law. Mr. Humphreys, a gentleman eminent in his profession, had performed the extraordinary task of producing a work on the subject of the law of real property, for the comprehension of which no technical knowledge was at all necessary. The omission of that gentleman's name in the
1526Sir F. Burdett
 thought, that if Mr. Humphreys had been appointed, so also must the learned gentleman who had opposed the doctrines laid down in his publication.Mr. Batley
 was convinced that the undeviating honour and integrity which had characterized Mr. Humphreys, ought to have assured every body, that a more valuable gentleman could not have been placed upon the commission. He could not help thinking, that the omission would not only tend to diminish the confidence of the public in this commission, but to diminish the prospect of benefit which they had every right to expect from the inquiry. It was said, that Mr. Humphreys had carried reform too far, and that therefore, another gentleman, who differed totally from him, ought to be placed on the commission, if Mr. Humphreys was. Now, he would contend, that there was no sense in putting such extreme notions in such a situation. A learned person was reported to have said, that he would rather have his bowels torn out, than that the system of fines and recoveries should be abolished. Now, would it not be an absurdity, to place Mr. Humphreys and this learned person together on the commission?Mr. Brougham
1530 concurred fully in what had fallen from the hon. member for Newton, and felt, that after his observations upon the motion, it was unnecessary to enter into the wide field of discussion which the hon. mover had thought it necessary to take. The question really was, ought parliament to compel all bankers to render a public account of their issues? To accomplish this object, it seemed, the hon. mover had no hesitation in prying into and revealing the secrets of their business; secrets on which not only their welfare but their ruin might depend. Admitting that in the estimate he (the chancellor of the Exchequer) had made of the issues of country bank paper, there had been some inaccuracy, was that
1530The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1529 opposed the motion. At that late period of the session, and on the eve of the operation now about to take place, of calling in the one-pound notes, no conjuncture could be conceived, in which this species of legislation could be more ill-timed. Indeed, the hon. member's own views seemed to be singularly confused. He had mixed up joint-stock banks, and chartered banks, and private banks, and banking in England, and banking in Scotland, and banking in France, and banking in Massachusetts, in a manner which could not practically bear upon the present state of monied transaction in this country, whether the existing system be a good or an erroneous one.—He, however, should, at the present moment, deprecate any legislative measure. It had been put forth, in 1825, that the insolvency of many of the country bankers arose from their having gone into the bubbles and speculations of the day. It was, however, found that the contrary was the fact; and, whatever failures had then taken place, had, for the most part, arisen from their having made imprudent advances to their immediate neighbourhoods. Now, as the legislature had determined, that the circulation of one-pound notes should cease in April next, the real danger to be guarded against was, lest the bankers, anticipating a greater demand on them than might probably take place, in consequence of that measure hanging over them, should be too hastily withdrawing their credits, and might thus bring on, during the winter months, a greater pressure than the country could conveniently bear. A run on the bankers was a great grievance to them; but the real pressure was from that which necessarily followed
1529Mr. Hudson Gurney
 said, there was a great difference between having the evidence of Mr. Humphreys, and his being on the commission, where he might originate improvements. It would seem, that any men of talent and information, who had ventured to give their opinions on subjects of importance, were less likely to be employed, than men whose minds were a blank sheet of paper.Mr. Hume
15281527 said, that as he considered the question of the currency to be one of vital importance to the country, he must again impress upon ministers the necessity of altering their policy. In the speech of his majesty, in February, 1826, they were recommended to take such measures as
15281527Mr. Hume
 supported the motion. He thought that the labouring classes had a right to ask, at the hands of the legislature, some security for the solvency of country banks, in which they must of necessity repose so much confidence.Sir C. Cole
1525 said, he hoped he should be allowed to say a few words. He confessed that he felt very great regret, in common with all those who took an earnest interest in improvements in the law, that the name of Mr. Humphreys did not appear in the Commission that had been appointed, to inquire into the law of real property. The merits of Mr. Humphreys were so great and so well known, that no name would have sooner occurred than his, to any person who was zealous for reform in this branch of the law. If there was a man who, to a profound knowledge of the principles of the law, joined an eminence for his skill in practice, he could not help considering it as a public misfortune, that Mr. Humphreys's name did not appear in the commission. In saying this, he did not mean to say any thing derogatory of the learned persons who formed that commission. Mr. Campbell, though he had hitherto applied his talents to a different part of the law, would, he was sure, execute his task with skill, integrity, and assiduity. So would Mr. Duckworth. Still, he regretted the absence of Mr. Humphreys's name in the commission; and he had the less hesitation in saying so, as those very persons had expressed their sor-
1525Sir J. Mackintosh
1531 said, that when the bill was brought into the House in its original shape, no individual felt more favourably towards its principle than he did; but it had since undergone very important changes, which had been produced by the hon. member for Hertford. That being the case, he felt it necessary either to oppose the measure altogether, or to suggest some third scheme which would meet the wishes of all parties. The line of argument adopted by many hon. members, but especially by the secretary for the Home Department, led them to oppose a transfer of the elective franchise to Birmingham; but the right hon. Secretary agreed in the propriety of disfranchising East Retford. The right hon. gentleman did not mean to give to East Retford the shadow of a right, while the substance was held. The right hon. gentleman's words were these—"We are only to consider, supposing the determination of the House to be that this borough shall be disfranchised, to what place it is fit and expedient to transfer the right." In this broad manner did the right hon. gentleman lay clown the principle by which the House ought to be guided; and he then proceeded to give his reasons why they ought rather to extend the franchise to the adjoining hundred than to bestow it on Birmingham, or on any other great and populous town. The right hon. gentleman's argument on that occasion was, that it would be improper to disturb the relations which at present existed between the agricultural and commercial interests in that House. By acting on this princi-
1531Lord Howick
15331532, who had just entered the House, expressed a hope, that the few observations which he was about to make, would be patiently heard. He must say that he was placed in an extraordinary situation, in consequence of the course taken by the hon. member for Hertford. In the first place, it was not usual to bring on questions of this kind so early in the evening; and in the next, he had conceived that he was in possession of the subject to which the present measure related. On a former occasion he had stated, that he meant to submit a motion on this subject; and that if the House did not approve of it, he would leave the matter to the hon. member for Hertford. All he had since heard was, that the bill was to be recommitted; and before that step was taken, he wished to say a few words with reference to those proceedings. The Penryn
15331532Mr. Tennyson
 seconded the amendment. He had always thought, that the evidence did not make out a sufficient case against the borough, and therefore he had voted against the original proposition. But now that it was proposed to extend the franchise to the hundreds, he should, though the greatest corruption might exist in the borough, certainly vote for the franchise remaining where it was, rather than throw it into the hands of the aristocracy.Mr. Stewart
15351534 said, he was confident he had fully satisfied the House that he had not given the slightest indication of the course which he intended to pursue, in the event of one franchise only being placed at their disposal. He had acted on the case of Penryn, as on a good case, and never contemplated that the bill would have been thrown out in another place. The details into which he had entered on former occasions were sufficient to show, if his declaration were not sufficient, that it was impossible for him to have contemplated that the case now before them would arise. As to the charge that he was influenced by any party or personal considerations, and particularly as to the charge of his wishing to increase the influence of the aristocracy, he could only give a general and flat denial. He had no knowledge of the hundred. He did not give his vote with the view of supporting, either directly or indirectly, any persons or any parties. He had before
15351534Mr. Secretary Peel
1536 said, that if the
1536Lord John Russell
ll1537 said, that as he was convinced that by extending the franchise to the hundred, no public benefit would be effected, he should not support that proposition. He rested his opposition to this bill on the ground that the House ought to deal with such cases as these, not so much with reference to precedents,
ll1537Lord Normanby
 said, that he should also vote against the re-commitment, as he could not consent to trust any bill connected with parliamentary reform in the hands of the hon. member for Hertfordshire. This proceeding had been altogether a most extraordinary one. Since the days in which a pair of gloves brought about the peace of Utrecht, and a crooked window caused the devastation of the Palatinate, such important effects had never proceeded from such slight causes. The first thing that the hon. member had done was to knock up the bill of his hon. friend. The next thing was to knock up the administration; and finally, very nearly to knock up the parliament. He really did not think that the very respectable member for Hertfordshire was by any means a good tactitian; and lest further mishaps should occur, the best thing would be, to dismiss the bill altogether.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that every prepossession in his mind was in favour of the landed interest; but, with the best view that he was able to take of the course that would be beneficial to that interest, he was persuaded that it was highly desirable to transfer the elective franchise, in the present instance, to a great town. The prosperity of the landed interest was intimately connected with the prosperity of the commercial interest. The latter it was well known, was suffering great depression; and what better chance could be afforded to it of recovering from that depression, than by giving to the great commercial towns the means of being represented in that House?Mr. Slaney
 expressed his wish, that the franchise should be extended to a great town, not because he was a friend to reform in principle, but because he was its decided enemy. To extend the franchise to large towns, on such occasions as the one in question, was the only mode by which the House could avoid the adoption, at some time or other, of a general plan of reform. It appeared to him very inconsistent in the enemies of reform to oppose the transfer of the franchise to a large town. When people saw such populous places as Leeds and Manchester unrepresented, whilst a green mound of earth returned two members, it naturally gave rise to complaint. The House ought, therefore, to take advantage of every case of delinquency, to apply a gradual remedy to the defective state of the representation.Lord Palmerston
 said, that if the franchise was not transferred to a great town, the measure would be valueless; but, as long as the right hon. Secretary was opposed to transferring the elective franchise, in such cases, to a great town, the attainment of such an object was scarcely to be hoped for.Mr. Marshall
 observed, that his vote respecting Penryn was a proof that he was not opposed to the principle of transferring the elective franchise to a great town.Mr. Peel
 observed, that by the constant delays which had occurred, the borough in question had been practically disfranchised. If no decisive step were taken that evening, he would on Monday move, that a new writ be issued.Mr. Lumley
 said, that although he was not disposed to get rid of this bill altogether, yet, as it was impossible to get through it in the present session, he thought a great advantage would result from suspending the proceedings upon it, and resuming them next session. Whenever any case of prominent corruption appeared, he should always recommend, that the opportunity should be taken of reforming the representation. Whenever the soil was bad, and there was no probability that the tree would bear good fruit, he would argue in favour of its being transplanted.Mr. Wynn
 objected to the amendment. If they were to transfer the franchise to any place, he should prefer its being transferred to some place which already had the machinery of an election, instead of a place which had none.Mr. C. Wood
 felt it would be highly improper in him to consider himself returned to parliament in order to bind himself up with, or represent any particular interest there. He trusted the noble lord would also well consider his motion before he pressed the House to a division.Mr. Duncombe
 objected to a proposition which must tend to increase the influence of the Crown.Mr. Baring
 considered the House bound to take this duty on itself.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, there were so many obstacles thrown in the way of fixing on Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds, or any other place, to which the franchise should be transferred, that he would move, as an amendment, that the Chairman do leave the chair. This he hoped would get rid of the bill altogether.Mr. Alderman Wood
 then moved an amendment for the purpose of absolutely disfranchising the Borough of East Retford.Lord John Russell
1540 said, that if, in the case of East Retford, the elective franchise, instead of being transferred from the delinquent borough to some large unrepresented town, were transferred to the adjacent hundreds, it would have a strong tendency
1540Mr. Wynn
 was not disposed to go quite so far as to say, that an Address to the Crown was a more constitutional proceeding than that by bill; for this simple reason, that they were very similar to each other, if indeed they were not fundamentally the same; as a bill originally was only a petition, which the consent of the king converted into a law. He did not think that to address the Crown, requesting the nomination of a town or borough to send members, in lieu of that which had been disfranchised, would at all embarrass ministers. There was no minister, who felt the moral responsibility of his situation, the value of his character, and the worth of the estimation of the people, who would not think it necessary to maintain all these, by giving the representation to one of the great populous towns. For this reason among others, that popular opinion, and the dictates of their own honour and reputation, would induce ministers to make a proper choice, he was in favour of the proposition to carry an Address to the Crown. Such a course would, besides, exhibit the Crown in a gracious and popular light, and was on that account to be preferred.Sir J. Mackintosh
1541 said, it was clear that this measure would not pass
1541Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he should vote for the transfer of the franchise to the hundred; and chiefly because of the great benefit which had arisen from the adoption of that course. He alluded to the case of Shoreham, where the franchise was extended to the rape of Bramber, and where there was now as much independence and public spirit, as in any other town in the kingdom. He felt that he was not stepping out of the pale of the constitution by giving that vote notwithstanding what had fallen from the hon. member for Knaresborough.Mr. Sugden
1542 said, that, after the disposition which the (House had manifested, and especially after the division which had just taken place, it would be a waste of time to persist in pressing the measure. The conduct of his majesty's ministers on the occasion had been unfair, unjust, un-candid, base, and grossly unconstitutional. He would repeat, that ministers, in the whole of their proceedings in reference to
1542Mr. Tennyson
.—Sir, it is not true, that, in giving my vote upon this bill, I have done so with a view to serve any particular interest. I say, it is not a fact, that his majesty's ministers have been influenced by any particular interest, or that they have adopted their present course with a view to 'any base purpose. The hon. gentleman's proposal was fully debated, and the sense of the House was fairly taken upon it: and he now attempts to compensate himself for his disappointment, by the use of language that is utterly unjustified by any conduct of mine, or of my colleagues, in reference to this bill.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said:—I made no personal allusion to the right hon. gentleman. I spoke of his majesty's ministers in the bulk. I said of their conduct that which it was impossible for me not to feel. With respect to the conduct of the right hon. gentleman, personally speaking, I was the only member, taking the view which I took of the subject, that relieved him from the charge of having given any special pledge on the question, beyond that which the right hon. gentleman has himself repeated this night. I have not imputed to the right hon. gentleman any immoral intention, nor have I described his conduct in the abusive language which has been applied to it by others. Although I do not think that the right hon. gentleman was specifically pledged to take any other course than that which he has adopted, the sentiments which I have expressed have been uttered deliberately, and to them I adhere.Mr. Tennyson
1543.—The hon. gentleman has replied, that it was to the conduct of ministers generally that his language was applied, and he has described them as consulting upon this occasion the purposes of some particular interest. I meet at once such a general charge with a general denial; and I state to the House, upon my honour as a gentleman, that neither directly nor indirectly, have I had any communication with any person who could possibly have had any interest in this measure. I therefore deny that in my conduct in reference to this bill, I have been influenced by any particular interest, and I claim the exercise of my right as a member of parliament to give my vote upon a public question, unfettered by any pledge.
1543Mr. Peel
1544 said, it was much to be lamented that this question should have been made, from the very beginning, a vehicle for the expression of party feeling. He regretted that his hon. friend near him should have been betrayed into any warm language, but he thought it was very much twisted from its original meaning, when it was said to be personally offensive to any of his majesty's ministers. Upon the general question, as to the expectations of the present ministry, he could only say that, looking to those who had seceded from the ministry, and to those who remained in it, his hopes of advantage to the country from the administration were very scanty; and if it were possible for any thing to diminish those hopes, it would be the language which he had heard within these walls. When he heard a Vice-president of the Board of Trade say, that upon the question of free trade his mind was a piece of blank paper—when he heard the landed interest declare that they at last looked with confidence to a ministry from which they expected a preference to their interests over those of the manufacturing and commercial classes—when he heard language like this, he owned it appeared to him very suspicious, and it led him to suppose, that a change of men did actually produce a change of measures. He would merely say that, after the vote o that night, he saw no use in giving any
1544Mr. Stanley
 said, he should leave the House with regret if he thought the right hon. gentleman was under the impression, that he had made any personal allusion to the right hon. gentleman. He spoke of the government as a collective body, and in that capacity he thought it was often swayed by motives on which the individuals who composed it would refuse to act. The right hon. gentleman was one of the last men whom he would think of selecting for any improper accusation.Mr. Tennyson
.—I have utterly forgotten every thing that has been said on the matter [Cheers].Mr. Peel
 said, it would be very satisfactory if they had the right hon. gentleman's pledge that the next forfeited franchise should be transferred to a great town.Lord John Russell
 said, that if such a case as that of Grampound were to occur again, he should have no objection to transfer the franchise to a great town; but it was no part of his duty to bind himself, in any event, to a particular line of conduct.Mr. Peel
1545 did not think the answer of the right hon. gentleman by any means satisfactory. Suppose the next case which should arise were as strong as that
1545Mr. Littleton
 said, he did not conceive his hon. friend had a right to put questions to him in this manner. It was not consistent with his duty as a minister of the Crown to answer a question, put in that manner, and of that nature. He would not bind himself by any pledge; but when the time arrived for the discussion of any case of this nature, he should dispose of it in a manner perfectly consistent with any pledges that he had made.Mr. Peel
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had explained himself in the fairest and most explicit way; but the manner in which question after question had been pressed upon him went beyond common decency and parliamentary custom [cheers].Mr. Hudson Gurney
1556155515541553 said, that in replying to the right hon. gentleman, he would endeavour to avoid any expression which could be construed to be inconsistent with his former declaration, that the highest disapprobation was felt by his majesty's government at the course which had been pursued by Don Miguel. He must, however, contend, that it was the policy of this country, in cases of this nature, not to seek out for exceptions to the great general principles, but to observe that course of conduct which we wished to be observed with respect to us, under similar circumstances, and that course, too, which was consistent with the doctrines which must be held as governing the practice under international law. It might be very unfortunate that certain inferences should be drawn from particular expressions. It might be, that the Portuguese multitude were so ignorant as to be liable to draw those inferences. It might be, that a correspondence had existed which had led to false expectations; but it was the duty of the English government, in determining the course they should pursue, with respect to the notification of an effective blockade, to put all such extrinsic circumstances out of view. Now, with respect to the correspondence to which the right hon. gentleman had alluded—before the notification to British merchants of the existence of the blockade, he, as the organ of the government in that House, had expressly declared, that lord Beresford, in whatever he had written, had no authority whatever to express the sentiments of any confidential adviser of the Crown. But when the right hon. gentleman put a construction upon the correspondence of lord Beresford, he begged the House to have some regard for the declaration of his lordship himself, and not to adopt the construction which was made by parties inter-
1556155515541553Mr. Secretary Peel
, in moving the second reading of this bill, thought, after the objections which had been made to it, it would be better, at that late period of the Session, to postpone it. He was, however, anxious to go into a committee, to explain the nature and objects of its clauses.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 hoped the right hon. gentleman would consent to withdraw a measure so objectionable in its principle.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 concurred in the same hope.Mr. Warburton
 said, that the bill instead of conferring new powers, went merely to give effect to those already recognized by parliament. It rather went to relieve the parishioners from unequal taxation, than to impose it upon them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 condemned the clause, which went to enable churchwardens to levy monies for ecclesiastical purposes.Mr. R. Gordon
 wished the right hon. gentleman would decline the assistance of interested advisers. In many parishes one of the churchwardens was appointed by the rector, who was directly interested, and the other by the parishioners. There was no appeal from their decision. The state of things, in this respect, was deplorable in many parishes. He himself had sat for days, hearing the cases of more than two hundred people in one parish, who were told by the churchwardens, on being summoned for poor and church-rates, "The church-rates you must pay, at all events, whatever becomes of the poor-rates." He should oppose the bill in every stage.Mr. Alderman Wood
, although he did not approve of the whole of the measure, should vote for going into the committee. He was convinced that were his hon. friends to inform themselves respecting the operation of the existing law, and contrast it with the provisions of the proposed bill, little opposition would be offered to the measure. With respect to patronage, he hoped he should never see the right of appointment placed in the hands of a body of parishioners, which would reduce a clergymen to the necessity of undertaking a very degrading species of canvass.Dr. Lushington
 said, that the bill was brought in so imperfectly, that no two persons could agree upon any part of it. The learned gentleman who spoke last had given a very good reason why the bill should be postponed; for if there ought to be a clause to indemnify the owners of disputed land, they surely ought to give time for such an alteration. But his learned friend who had spoken before was quite enamoured with the bill. Still, however, he thought, with all due respect for his opinion, that at that late period of the session the measure should be permitted to drop for the present. The strongest objection to the bill was, that it did not consolidate the various laws which now existed on the subject: time should be given for that purpose, and the occasion was not so pressing as to call upon them to pass the bill "with all its imperfections on its head." With respect to the choice of clergymen by their congregations, he should only say, that the few things of that kind in his own gift he had always disposed of upon that principle, and he had always found it productive of the greatest harmony. There was certainly no objection to it upon principle, for it had been the original practice, and, as far as he could judge, that practice was likely to be attended with the best effects.Sir F. Burdett
 said, the chancellor of the Exchequer might assure himself that if this measure were persisted in, the question would not be decided at an early hour, either on that evening or on any other. The right hon. gentleman would surround himself with difficulties from which he could not extricate himself. Why should the bill be pressed through parliament at that late period of the session? Let time be afforded to the House and the country to become acquainted with its principle and details.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 objected to the bill entirely. In zeal towards the church, and in a determination to uphold it in all its just rights, he would not yield to any one; and it was with that feeling that he could not uphold any measure that the unwise friends of that church might bring forward, to enable it to grasp more power and greater revenues than it already enjoyed. Such appeared to him to be the character of the present measure, and on those grounds he should oppose it. The hon. member for Preston had appealed to the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Calcraft) in an angry tone; but he had so long entertained a friendship for that right hon. gentleman, that he was willing to give him credit for every pledge that he had entered into (notwithstanding his change of place in that House), till he saw that they were falsified; and it was on that ground that he should call on the right hon. gentleman to use his influence with the chancellor of the Exchequer to induce him to accede to the wish that had been expressed.Sir James Graham
 said the bill had been characterized as imposing a tax; but the fact was, that it imposed no additional burthen. With respect to the clause authorizing money to be raised for ecclesiastical purposes, he denied that it gave more power than was previously in existence. He could not see why the bill should not be allowed to go into a committee, where he would have an opportunity of satisfying gentlemen as to its precise nature and objects.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1563 said, there was not a. clause in the bill, except that which related to interment within a certain distance of the church, which he did not object to. With that exception he defied any gentleman to come at the true and accurate meaning of any one clause. Now, in his opinion, a bill in such an imperfect state, was not fit to go to a committee. The only mode of dealing with it would be to refer it to a committee up stairs, and he hoped the right hon. gentleman would consent to adopt this course. The propriety of delay was shown by what had occurred since the House had been debating the measure. During the discussion a petition had arrived from Manchester against the bill, drawn up as if the petitioners had foreseen the reproaches that would be urged against those who opposed the bill. The petitioners objected to the bill on account of its tending to increase the church rates; which was not only unjust towards the rate-payers, but tended to diminish
1563Sir F. Burdett
1560 said, he was sure the chancellor of the Exchequer, if he knew
1560Mr. O. Cave
1559 said, that to the principle of this bill he was entirely favourable; but as the right hon. gentleman would not yield to the wish of the House, and as it would be impossible to pass the bill in the present session, he should feel it his
1559Lord W. Powlett
1558 supported the bill. He did not entirely approve of the clause which limited the recovery of compensation for private rights to five years. Ho agreed in the principle, that no time should run against the church; because it was not a privilege to the church but to the public. He thought, that the moment a church or chapel was built, it should be good for ever against all the world. But still he thought a provision should be made against taking any man's land improperly. He would not have a church or chapel, built for the benefit of the community and at their expense, seized and taken into the possession of the person to whom the land might belong; but he should be
1558Mr. Sugden
 said, he felt much gratified at what had fallen from the hon. baronet with so much courtesy and kind feeling. His hon. friend had hoped that he would intreat the chancellor of the Exchequer, not only to delay, but to abandon the present measure: but he was sure that many hon. friends of his, would recollect, that he had been friendly to the original measure of building additional churches. It would therefore be seen, that he could not, consistently ask the chancellor of the Exchequer to arrest the progress of a measure, the effects of which would be to amend and improve a proposition to which he had given his support. All the objections now urged against this bill would be properly urged in the committee, because they only affected its clauses, and did not touch its principle; and it was to the committee that he would urge his right hon. friend to proceed with all the speed allowed by the forms of the House.Mr. Calcraft
1562 said, he entertained the strongest objections, not only to the principle but to the details of this measure. The church should not be maintained by the imposition of new taxes. It should
1562Mr. Monck
 opposed the second reading, and called on all who wished to support the respectability of the established church, to rescue it from the odium which its enemies were so eager to heap upon it.Mr. J. Wood
 said, that a few nights ago, he had heard the member for Wareham (Mr. Calcraft), whom he now heard crying "question!" boast, that, sit on which side of the House he might, he would still support the principles he had always advocated; yet now the right hon. gentleman was the first to cry "question !" when the rights of the people were at stake. If this was an omen of the change of principles that resulted from his change of seat, he wished the right hon. gentleman joy of it. He had risen to show, that the but was not only objectionable in principle, but amounted to a breach of faith. When a million of money was granted for the building new churches, it was stated that no additional expense should fall upon the parishes; but now after that million and an additional half million had been granted, this scandalous breach of faith was about to be committed. We had already a Church Establishment more overgrown than that of any other country in the world. This bill went to increase its patronage, to a monstrous and indefinite degree; and yet we were told, that if we allowed it to go quietly into the committee, we might there see it in a corrected state. He entreated the right hon. gentleman to postpone the further consideration of this measure till next session.Mr. John Wood
 thought it a bad symptom, when clauses so open to abuse could be considered an amelioration. He regretted that the learned doctor had expressed himself unfavourable to the election of clergymen by their parishioners; but his chief objection to the bill was, that it alluded to so many acts of parliament instead of consolidating those acts, and thus complicated instead of simplifying the state of the law. He thought it would be better to postpone the bill, than pass it in so crude a state.Mr. Hume
l said, he would move, that this debate should be adjourned until tomorrow, that he might have an opportunity of moving, that the 500,000lMr. Hume
 expressed his approbation of the principle of the bill; at the same time it required deep consideration, and that a consolidation of the ecclesiastical acts on the subject should be effected.Dr. Phillimore
 objected to the introduction of such a bill at so late a period of the session.Dr. Phillimore
Quodcunque mihi sic ostendis, incredulus odi hoped the right hon. gentleman would give up the bill. It was highly objectionable. Amongst other things, it gave the churchwardens a right to tax the parishioners; which in itself was a flagrant violation of private property. All acts of this kind only proved how nugatory was the attempt to thrust religion down people's throats. To all such attempts he would answer, "Quodcunque mihi sic ostendis, incredulus odiMr. Leycester
 protested against the speech of the hon. baronet. What right had the hon. baronet to attribute motives to gentlemen, which they were as incapable of feeling as the hon. baronet was of sympathizing with the motives which really actuated them? They disclaimed any wish to pull down the church property; on the contrary, they were the real friends of the church, and the best guardians of its property, who opposed measures which were calculated to produce discontent and irritation between the church and those who belonged to its communion. All that was asked for, was time to submit this bill to the examination of a committee above stairs.Mr. Spring Rice
 said, he thought it was extremely hard that a bill of this importance should be introduced at that late period of the session. He would oppose it now; but he would not thereby pledge himself to oppose it in a future session.Sir W. W. Wynn
l wished to know what urgent necessity there was to press the bill through the House during the present session. The former grants had not been expended; the commissioners had yet 500,000lMr. George Lamb
 was favourable to the clause which prohibited burials in churches.Sir C. Cole
1552155115501549154815471546 said, he wished to make a few observations upon a recent measure of his Majesty's government, which measure it was his wish to contemplate only so far as it affected an ancient friend, who was engaged in an arduous struggle to uphold that law and that liberty which had been conferred upon her by her lawful sovereign; He would not enter into any discussion of international law. He would not deny that, in cases of civil contests in a state foreign states might recognize either of the contending parties, as in possession of the sovereign authority, and treat with the actual possessors of that authority. Neither would he deny that a foreign state might not recognize in each party the possession of the ordinary belligerent rights, and treat both on equal terms as far as respected those rights. He would not dispute any of those points, nor would he have felt it necessary to call the attention of the House to the subject at all, but for the language used on a recent occasion by our government, which appeared as if it was intended to apply to one party in Portugal, though no doubt it was meant for both. He did not charge the government with any intentional partiality
1552155115501549154815471546Sir James Mackintosh
 hoped that the right hon. gentleman would not postpone the consideration of this measure. Gentlemen had that evening evinced a disposition to pull down the Church Establishment of the country [loud cries of "hear"].Sir J. Brydges
 said, he had read the bill, and found it to be much worse than he had anticipated. He wished the right hon. gentleman would consent, in the first place, to modify it in the committee, and, in the next, to let the country have full time to consider its details.Sir R. Wilson
pro forma. said, his impression had been in favour of the bill, but that impression had been much weakened, after the arguments he had heard. Under all the circumstances, he was of opinion that they should not now proceed further with the bill, than the reading of it a second time, and committing it pro forma.Lord Sandon
157215711570156915681567bona fide156615651564 rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the petition of the Baron de Bode be referred to a committee. The petition was from the Baron de Bode, a British subject, stating that his property in Lower Alsace, had been confiscated by the French Government in 1793; that he had preferred his claim for compensation before the Commissioners of Claims, and now complained of the award made by those commissioners. It was to him an unpleasant task to submit any motion which would take a large sum of money from the pockets of the people, and also to have to complain of the conduct of public men in the award they had given. Yet he had one ground of encouragement. It was, that he pleaded the cause of moral and substantial justice, and that, without reference to forms, it would be decided by that House on principles of public honour and good faith. One of the great difficulties of the case was, that he had to show, not merely an error of judgment in the commissioners, but that they had opposed the claim of the petitioner by vexatious and frivolous delays.
157215711570156915681567bona fide156615651564Mr. Stanley
1596l1595 said, he considered the great importance of the subject, as connected with the comfort, the feelings, and even the health, of the inhabitants of this metropolis. It was undoubtedly fit that the House should take cognizance of the manner in which the companies discharged the obligations they had taken on themselves under the authority of Parliament. He was not opposed to an inquiry being instituted for that purpose; but there was one point of the hon. baronet's speech from which he totally dissented.—He had said, that the remedy lay with government, and that it was for them to meet the complaints of the public. Had the hon. baronet reflected on the expense which would be incurred by a compliance
1596l1595Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he would not trouble the House with many remarks after the satisfactory speech of the right hon. gentleman. He had consented to grant even more than was asked for by his hon. colleague, by consenting to a committee with the fullest powers of inquiry. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that if gross monopolies, the insalubriousness of the water, and other abuses were proved to exist, they should be corrected. Now, there was no doubt but that such abuses did exist to an alarming extent, and he hoped the committee about to be appointed would be effectual for the removal of them. His constituents loudly complained of the present state of the supply of water, and they had a right to have that complaint attended to and redressed.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that his attention had been called to a plan for filtering the water of the Thames, in the same manner that water was supplied in Glasgow; he thought it deserving of attention: it might be found preferable to that of bringing water in its natural state, even from the high point of the river that had been mentioned.Mr. Warburton
1597 said, that the right hon. gentleman had misunderstood him in supposing that he wished government to interfere on the question. All that he wished was, that the House of Commons should take it up; if this were done, there were many persons ready to advance mo-
1597Sir F. Burdett
protestatio contra factum.1588 said, that if the baron de Bode had reason to complain of not having had able counsellors to state his ease elsewhere, he had at least had an able counsellor to state it in that House, for he would freely confess that he had never heard any case better put by any person than the case of the petitioner had been put by the hon. member for Preston. He had read the papers of the petitioner with the utmost attention, and he felt that the complaint which he made against the commissioners came from him with a very bad grace, considering that he had known, for four or five years, the course which they had publicly declared their intention of pursuing. They had given him all the time that was necessary to prepare his case; they had received all the evidence which the baron had offered, and which was legally admissible; and they had given him every opportunity that could be considered preliminary to a fair decision of his claims.—The hon. member for Preston had accused the commissioners of making a false statement, when they said, that the baron's name was not included in the first list of claimants admitted by the French government. He contended, that the commissioners were perfectly correct, and that the baron's name was no where to be found in that first list. He admitted that it would be a fraud to obtain a compensation from the French government on the footing of the baron's losses as a British subject, and then to turn round upon him and say, "You have not made out your losses, and we therefore will not admit your claim." But no such fraud could be charged in this case upon the British government; since the statement in the baron's petition that his name was in the first list of claimants was entirely without foundation. The petitioner said, he was entitled to claim for the confiscation of a property which he had acquired by cession from his father; and it was said that the opinion of Mr. Shadwell was in favour of that claim. Now, the opinion of Mr. Shadwell was given upon an alternative, that, if de Bode had not a claim by cession, he had, at all events, a claim by descent. Now it was not a little extraordinary, that all those who argued this case before the Privy Council made no allusion whatever to this alternative right; which seemed to
protestatio contra factum.1588The Attorney-general
1594ll15931592159115901589 said, that in rising to introduce a motion on this subject, he was sure the right hon. Secretary would concur with him as to the great importance of the question, and the necessity which existed, considering the grievances suffered under the present system of supplying Water to the Metropolis, for the introduction of some measure to remedy the evil. As the right hon. gentleman was impressed with the
1594ll15931592159115901589Sir F. Burdett
1587 said, that after the part which he had taken upon this question on a former occasion, he could not give a silent vote at present, because he felt he should not be doing justice to the baron de Bode if he did not state, that all the impressions which he had formerly entertained respecting the justice of his claim, existed in his mind unchanged. In May, 1826, he had presented a petition to the House from the baron. The late Mr. Canning objected to any ulterior proceedings being founded upon the petition. In consequence of what transpired in the House of Commons upon that occasion, he advised the baron to present another memorial to the Treasury. Whilst that memorial was under consideration, he advised the baron to submit his case to some gentleman in the profession. The baron, in consequence, submitted it to Mr. Shad-well; who gave his opinion in these words:—"Though the evidence of the cession is not complete, I think the papers do satisfactorily make out, either that there was such a cession, or if there was not, then that the baron had such an interest in the property in 1793, that, if he had originally claimed in the alternative before the commissioners, his claim ought to have been allowed. And, in my opinion, although his case has miscarried before the commissioners and upon the appeal, the baron is entitled, in the view of moral justice, to indemnification for the loss of his property, out of the fund placed by the French government at the disposal of the English commissioners, under the convention of 1818." He thought that this opinion, given by a gentleman of Mr. Shadwell's character, who would not, for any consideration, upon earth, have gone one inch beyond the fair merits of the
1587Mr. Littleton
15801579instanter15781577mala fides1576bona fide1575ex gratia15741573 said—The disadvantage, Sir, of rising after the hon. gentleman, is much increased by the appeal to the feelings of the House, which he has grounded on the desolate circumstances of the baron de Bode. But as he has admitted, that the question must be decided upon grounds, not of feeling, but of justice, to the justice of the case I will address myself; and of this I am sure, that if justice be really on the side of this claim, neither its magnitude, nor the fear lest others may enter at the same door, will have any operation with any members of his majesty's government. Sir, the claim which is the subject of this discussion is founded, in the first place, on the second article of the Commercial Treaty of 1786, by which England and France agreed, that in the event of a rupture between them, the subjects of each shall have the privilege of remaining and continuing their trade without disturbance; and if the government should be obliged to order them to depart, twelve months should be allowed them to remove with their effects and property. In violation of this treaty, the government of France, at the beginning of the Revolutionary war, seized the property of various English subjects; and the indemnity of those subjects against the effects of that violation, was the object of the convention of 20th November, 1815. On these grounds, the baron de Dodo founds his demand for the loss of an estate at Alsace, which was seized by the Revolutionary government, and in which he claims an interest, either in possession or in reversion. The list of claimants was to shut, by the terms of the convention, on the 21st February, 1816; yet the baron's petition of claim was not sent in till the 9th, only twelve days before the close. The French minister considered that he was not a British subject within the meaning of the convention, and the register was closed without his name; but it being afterwards made to appear that he was really a natural born subject of England, the English commissioners pressed those of- France to admit his name.—The hon. gentleman having-argued that it was not by the French, but by the English authorities, that impediments were thrown in his way, I will read
15801579instanter15781577mala fides1576bona fide1575ex gratia15741573Mr. Horace Twiss
15831582en toute proprieté1581 said, the hon. and learned gentleman had deprecated their entering into any subject of a legal nature. To that, as a general principle, he was most ready to subscribe; but when he saw that the tribunal whose judgment was called in question was new—when that tribunal was invested with new and extraordinary powers—when it had the power of disposing of six millions of money—when he saw that tribunal vested with the right, not only of laying down the rules of evidence, but of pointing out what should be the nature of that evidence, he could not but think, that the principle stated by the hon. and learned gentleman was not applicable to the present case; and that the powers of that tribunal became, from the vast magnitude and novelty of the subject, deserving of inquiry, how they had been exercised, and how the funds, over which they exercised an unlimited control, had been disposed of. The only part of the case which the hon. and learned gentleman had endeavoured to explain was that which related to the conduct of the mixed commission that sat at Paris, which was unfavourable to the baron, and which he accused of misconception both of his motives and acts. It seemed that the baron had some grounds for conceiving that the commissioners were hostile to him; since even the hon. and learned gentleman had admitted that the conduct of the French Government was unfriendly to any of these claimants. But the part into which it most interested that. House to inquire was that which occurred since the mixed commission had been dissolved, and the business had been in the hands of the three commissioners appointed by this government. The hon. and learned gentleman had declared, that it would have been utterly useless for the Privy Council to have attempted to have gone into the case further them they did, because there was no evidence that the property seized was the property of a British subject. His opinion of the case was different; but it was not necessary for the House to come to a conclusion on that point, since it was part of the
15831582en toute proprieté1581Mr. Lockhart
1586 supported the motion. The fact was, that a sum of money had been given by the government of France to the government of England, for the repayment of the losses which British subjects had suffered under the spoliations which had taken place in France during the revolution. The baron de Bode was a British subject, and therefore clearly entitled to a share of the money so intrusted to the disposal of the British government. A large surplus was still in the hands of the commissioners, and he thought it particularly hard that the baron should be excluded from his share of it. The baron having been refused indemnification in this country, had applied to the French government, as a Frenchman, for indemnification out of the sums which had been set apart for the benefit of the emigrants. He was told, that, as a British subject, he had no right to present his claim as a French emigrant; but that that was a difficulty easily got over, he being known to have been the proprietor of the property for which he claimed, and that property being in the limits of France. But that a difficulty impossible to overcome was, that the baron having availed himself of his birth-right, and claimed indemnity as a British subject, under the convention of 1815, and having been acknowledged by the French commissioners at that time as a creditor of France, and
1586Dr. Phillimore
15851584 said, that in opposing the motion, he admitted it was no sufficient answer to it, that the House knew nothing- of the case but from the baron's own statement. The grounds on which he should rest his opposition rendered no such argument necessary. He much regretted, knowing the commissioners personally, that such charges as had been advanced against them should have entered so deeply into the discussion of this question. On the other hand, it became him 10 state, that, for years, it had been his duty to be in conflict with the commissioners; and to the extent of his ability, he had fought them with various success, but, generally, unsuccessfully. He might be supposed, therefore, to bring f to the subject feelings wholly untinged
15851584Mr. Robert Grant
 complained, that the hon. baronet had kept out of sight all other water companies but the Grand Junction, and on that he had certainly laid a heavy hand. The hon. baronet appeared to him to have taken an exaggerated view of the case, which he entirely attributed to the pamphlet he had quoted from. Notwithstanding his authorities, he was of opinion, that the House ought not to interfere, particularly at so late a stage of the session.Sir J. Yorke
1609160816071606 rose to submit the motion of which he had given notice, for the production of the correspondence between the English and Irish governments at the time of the Union, on the Conduct of the Roman Catholics. He did not seek for the opportunity of making a long speech on the general question—that would be bad taste; but the serious motives which induced him to abstain from going into other parts of that subject, were, that a case involving the character and consistency of eminent men now no more, should be made the subject of a separate discussion, and not be mixed up with matters
1609160816071606Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
161316121611 said, he should confine himself strictly to the question before the House; namely, whether the high official persons alluded to had given such a pledge to support the claims of the Catholics as must bind their successors to the adoption of the line of conduct to which they had so pledged themselves.— He should not deny that Mr. Pitt had been all along favourable to the claims of the Roman Catholics, but only with the proviso that such securities should be given, as would render the admission of their claims secure in the eyes of their Protestant fellow-citizens. It was clear that Mr. Pitt thought the admission of the Catholic claims would greatly tend to settle the Union, and facilitate the measures of government in that country. The question was, whether Mr.Pitt, or those in the administration of affairs under him, had given that sort of pledge which amounted to an understanding, that in the event of the Union with Ireland being carried, the claims of the Catholics to political power should be conceded. He would broadly deny that such a pledge had ever been given. And this he would do on the strength of documents which were accessible to all. The right hon. gentleman had alluded to the assurances of Mr. Pitt, lord Cornwallis, and lord Castlereagh, on whom he placed, it seemed, great reliance. It was clear that both the former were favourable, to Catholic emancipation. In consequence of being thwarted in this instance, Mr. Pitt evinced his sincerity by resigning. Of the then Viceroy of Ireland, the marquis Cornwallis, he had never ceased to admire the integrity, simplicity, and manliness of that nobleman, throughout this and other parts of his patriotic career. As to the conduct or professions of that nobleman, he would deny that he had ever been instrumental in creating the impression that such a pledge had been given by the members of the English or Irish governments. No persons could possibly give better authority or evidence on the subject than those who were the prominent political parties in the arrangement. Would it not be fair to infer, that had Mr. Pitt so far pledged himself to the Catholic body, he would, in his letter to the king in 1801, previously to his resignation, avowedly because he would not bring forward the question of emancipation with the authority of government, have said, "I feel obliged to resign my
161316121611Mr. Secretary Peel
1614 expressed his alarm at the
1614Mr. O'Brien
 rose to support the motion. The question was whether any expectation had been held out to the Catholics at the time of the Union, and whether their conduct had been influenced by such expectation? He would say, that each of the three orders, the clergy, the nobility and gentry, and the lower classes had received inducements from Mr. Pitt to support the Union. He had held out to the higher ranks the prospect of getting into parliament, to the lower the idea of some effectual measure of relief, and to the clergy that of a competent provision, provided they would assist in carrying the measure.Earl Jermyn
1615 rejoiced that his right hon. friend had brought forward the motion, for he could not help thinking that he had obtained much from the right hon. Secretary, who, though he did not agree to the motion, had opposed it upon grounds which confirmed much of what his right hon. friend had stated. His right hon. friend had never said, that a direct pledge was given to the Catholics at the time of the Union. But he had said, and the point was conceded to him, that an expectation was held out from the highest quarter, that the question would be brought nearer to a favourable decision, if the Union was carried; and that the Catholics had supported it on that understanding. As for the allusion made to Mr. Grattan, he was the last man who could have had any cognizance of what passed between Mr. Pitt and the Roman Catholics. At the time, he was the avowed enemy of the
1615Mr. Spring Rice
1622 said, he could not bring himself to sanction the continuance of the office, even upon the high military authority that had been brought forward in its support. How did it happen that the
1622Mr. Bankes
 said, that he, in common with the other members of the Finance Committee, found that very strong prejudices with regard to this establishment existed among military men. All, therefore, that the committee could do, was to deal with those prejudices, or prepossessions, for the best interests of the country. In recommending the abolition of this particular office, the committee acted with the strictest impartiality; and, upon the same principle, he should not hesitate to recommend the abolition of the office of Master-general, if he thought the public interest required it.Mr. Maberly
1623 said, he did not think himself justified in voting for the abolition of the office. If the artillery was once
1623Sir J. Sebright
 joined in all the praise which had been uttered on the artillery service. He considered, however, the deputy totally unnecessary, if the principal did his duty, and should, therefore, vote for the amendment.Mr. Bernal
 supported the utility of the office, and said that it was impossible for the senior officers of the artillery to discharge its duties, from their advanced age, they being- seldom less than seventy,-when they reached the rank of general officers.Colonel Wood
 referred to the evidence given by the duke of Wellington before the Committee of Finance, and said that, upon this evidence, he was entitled to say this office ought to be retained. It was no argument against the office, that the Lieutenant-general was allowed to absent himself and to do the duty by a deputy. He was sorry to vote against the recommendation of the Finance Committee; but he felt it right to support this office.Mr. Wilmot Horton
 said, he thought in the Committee up strairs, and still thought, that this office might be got rid of. The discussion he had heard that night had confirmed him in his opinion. The artillery department was now said to be in an excellent condition, and it was urged as a reason for retaining this office; but he begged to remind hon. members, that, when the department was in quite an opposite state from the present, this same office of Lieutenant-general existed.— The hest evidence of its uselessness was the continual absence of the person who filled it. That fact was worth volumes of opinions of official persons, however respectable they might be. He should support the amendment.Mr. Baring
1625 said, the right hon. gentleman had, early in the session, declared that he would not allow himself to be bound by the Finance Committee. Even so far back as 1824, the right hon. gentleman had commenced preparations for changing his side, by voting for the increase of the
1625Sir J. Graham
 said, he did not consider that the causes for the reduction of this office were most imperative and peremptory; but, looking to the state of the finances of the country, he conceived, that any reduction which could be conveniently and safely made in the public service should be effected. He therefore felt bound to give his vote now, as the Finance Committee had done, for the reduction of this office; not because its reduction was called for more imperatively than that of other offices, but because it could be conveniently dispensed with, and because the duties of the department could be as well performed by one officer as by two.Mr. Stanley
 maintained, that the loss to the public service by the removal of the Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance would more than counterbalance the good which would be derived from the saving of his salary. He quoted the authority of Mr. Canning, who, on a former occasion, when the subject was under discussion, maintained the necessity of the office in question. It was said, that in the absence of the Lieutenant-general, the duties were sufficiently well discharged by the Master-general. But, if the Master-general had to perform the duties of the Lieutenant-general as well as his own, a relaxation in the discharge of both duties must sooner or later follow, and be attended with a public injury.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.1627 said, that the government had already made reductions to
l.l.1627Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, he did not regard the question as one of overwhelming interest, but he thought it possessed interest sufficient to call for the serious attention of the House. It was the first occasion upon which the Finance Committee had called upon the House to say aye or no to one of its propositions. Was the House prepared to say no? Would the House of Commons be decided by authority alone, without going into the investigation of facts? It had been contended, that absence did not justify a forfeiture of the office; but was it not important evidence, that Lieutenants-general might be absent for a year or more, and was it too much to conclude from such evidence that the appointment might be dispensed with? As to the smallness of the saving, it had nothing to do with the question. Burthened as the country was at present, no sum could be too small to oppose, if it was unnecessary.Mr. Brougham
l.l.l.l.l.162016191618l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1617l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1616lllllllllllll said, he rose for the purpose of moving the Ordnance Estimates, and, in doing so, he did not think it necessary for him to go into any lengthened explanation. The voluminous report of the Finance Committee was a sufficient explanation of the delay that had occurred; seeing that it was considered desirable to have that report on the table, in which the Ordnance department was examined, previous to bringing forward the Estimates. The expenditure of the Ordnance for the year 1828 amounted to 1,785,196l.l.l.l.l.162016191618l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1617l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1616lllllllllllllSir H. Hardinge
 said, that the amendment of the hon. baronet seemed to him to amount to this—that the Lieutenant-general might be got rid of, by appointing another general officer in his room. The hon. baronet, however, appeared to forget, that, by the rules of the army, no officer could undertake any of the duties to which he had alluded, without regularly receiving a staff appointment. He contended, that the office was useful, as a mark of distinction for past services, as well as an object of remuneration. It was on this principle that it had been held by Marl-borough, Argyle, Granby, and Wellington. Out of the whole staff appointments, the office in question was the most unfortunate selection the committee could have made. Why not reduce the staff in Ireland, where Lieutenants-general commanded only one thousand or two thousand men, whereas the Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance commanded nine thousand.General Gascoyne
l.l.1624 said, he would not vote for the continuance of this office if he did not think its duties necessary, or if he thought the state of the finances such as could not allow of its existence. Those members of the House, who, like himself, were not members of the Finance Committee, and who were therefore ignorant of the Committee's motives for recom-
l.l.1624Mr. Calcraft
 said, it had been assumed, that the Master-general was president of the Board. This was not the case. The Lieutenant-general presided, and was the organ of communication between the Board and the Master-general. In his opinion, it was impossible to dispense with the office of Lieutenant-general, without detriment to the public service.Sir E. Owen
 said, that the whole objection to the office turned upon the single point, that the Master-general and the Lieutenant-general were not found acting together at the same time. Now, what was the fact?—Why, that ever since the duke of Wellington was appointed to the head of the department, not only was he unremitting in his own attention, but, under his direction, the Lieutenant-general was sedulously employed during the whole time, except for the short period when lord Beresford happened to be away.—When lord Beresford found that he could not return within the term of three months, he resigned; and the duties of the office were then discharged by his gallant friend near him. All questions respecting disputed points abroad must necessarily be laid before the Lieutenant-general. If the several circumstances of minute detail were to be brought under the consideration of the Master-general, it would be impossible he could attend to them all. The greatest inconvenience would arise if the office were done away with.Sir George Clerk
1626 said, that the hon. member for Dorsetshire seemed to think, that the duties of the office now under consideration had not been increased by the addition of the various departments which had been transferred to it. The duties both of the Master-general and the Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance had been considerably increased by the addition of those departments; but though there had been an increase of labour to them, the change had been attended with the greatest benefit to the public service. The gallant officer proceeded to argue, that it was highly necessary that a military officer of rank and ability should preside in the board, as military questions might frequently come before it. Allusion had been made to the absence of the Master-general and Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance; but he quite agreed with the Paymaster-general, that this was the exception and not the general rule. He thought too, it would be extremely wrong-that government should be debarred from having recourse to the services of an experienced and able officer, because he happened to be connected with the Ordnance.
1626Sir G. Murray
l.1621ll. said, that since it was intended to sustain the office of Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance, he should move as an amendment, that the salary be reduced from the proposed l,200l.1621ll.Sir H. Parnell
 said, that this was not a question of absence or not, but whether an office which might have been necessary in time of war, was so in the time of peace? In his opinion, nothing had been shown in favour of that continuation, and he should therefore vote against it.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that the chief, and indeed only, argument of the gentlemen opposite seemed to be, that there was sufficient business to occupy both the Master-general and Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance; but even if their statement had not been triumphantly met, there was one stubborn fact—the fact of the repeated absence of this "indispensable" officer, which could not be got over.Lord Morpeth
l.l.1630l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. complimented the gallant general on the ingenuity with which he had brought forward the measure. The vote was now for 30,000l.l.1630l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Stanley
 said, the total amount to be expended upon these works, was three millions at least. But was this all? Certainly not; for it was manifest, from the estimate of the duke of Wellington, that they would require a large force for their defence. And then there was no certainty of our being able to hold Canada. When these works were established, the colonists might take it into their heads to say, "We are not satisfied with your government; we wish to govern ourselves." Thus the country would have had the expense of establishing the works to no purpose. But, he would ask, of what benefit was Canada to us, in a commercial point of view? He would say that, instead of a benefit, it was a disadvantage. We could procure timber better and cheaper from Norway.Mr. Maberly
 said, it was hard that the House should be called upon to come to this vote at so late a period of the session; but part of the fault lay with the Finance Committee. Having examined the subject in all its bearings, they left it to the House to decide the question. If that was the result at which they, arrived, it should have been made known to the House some months earlier.Lord John Russell
 complained of the practice of treating the question of the colonies as a matter of pounds, shillings and pence. If parliament was determined to have colonies, it was their duty to preserve them. Halifax was one of the finest harbours in the world, and as long as we held it, and had a canal to carry up stores into the interior, the Americans would never again venture to attack us upon Lake Ontario, or disturb that commerce which we carried on with the inhabitants of the distant settlements. Looking, therefore, at the importance of preserving-Canada, and the importance of being provided with a proper defence in the event of war, he felt bound to support the grant.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
16341633l. was of opinion, that this was a very important question, not in a pecuniary point of view, but with reference to its consequences hereafter. He did not think that the right hon. gentleman had opened the case quite fairly. Some time ago it was decided by lord Liverpool's cabinet, that the whole extent of the object which government had in view, should be laid before parliament; but instead of coming down, and stating the full extent of what government intended to do, the right hon. gentleman had given a very contracted account of it. It was said 2,300,00016341633l.Mr. Baring
1635 defended the Canadas from the imputations of disloyalty, and expressed a hope that the time was not distant when the question relative to them would be fully discussed. He begged to enter his protest against all that had been said in favour of abandoning these colo-
1635Mr. W. Horton
l. agreed with what had fallen from the hon. member for Calling-ton, and contended that his arguments had received no answer from the Secretary for the Colonies. He considered the proposed grant a prelude to the expenditure of 2,800,000l.Mr. Warburton
16401639 said, that the hon. gentleman had argued the question, as if the House had only the choice of two alternatives, either to vote this sum for the defence of the Canadas, or to abandon them altogether. It was clear, that if the hon. gentleman was not prepared to abandon the Canadas, his whole argument was conclusive in favour of the vote. The hon. gentleman himself said, "Don't disregard the Americans: they are not inattentive to military science: they are training up their youth to arms, and they have an extended frontier for some thousands of miles adjoining these colonies." If that was true, was it not wise, in time of peace, to make preparation for an effectual defence? The hon. gentleman himself must admit, unless he was prepared to recommend the abandoning of the Canadas that the most economical mode was, to assist the physical strength of the population, by some system of fortification.— But, he would ask, could this country abandon its Colonies? This was not a question to be decided by considerations purely of a general nature. He must say, that while he admired the eloquence and feeling of the hon. member for St. Michael's, he was convinced, that the hon. gentleman's sentiments were perfectly consistent with the soundest policy. His advice was: —"Redress the grievances of the Colonies: attend to their just complaints: if there be defects in the Act of 1791, apply a remedy. But, as they have faithfully stood by you in the hour of danger, do not abandon them now." Though considerations of feeling were not alone to determine this question, they were not to be disregarded. He begged the House to consider what would be the effect produced on the other Colonies, if this country were to abandon the Canadas. If they saw the mighty power of this country shrinking into narrow dimensions, and exerted only for selfish purposes, what conclusion must they form? He had
16401639Mr. Secretary Peel
l.1629l.l., next moved, "That 30,000l.1629l.l.Sir H. Hardinge
1632 said, that no person was more certain than he was, that it was impossible to keep Canada without possessing the entire and cordial affections of the inhabitants; and while those affections were devoted to this country in the manner they had been, he would be the last man in that House to consent to abandon the country or the people. In the event of a war with America—which, though he did not think probable, he was bound to view as possible—it would be found that they had laid out the money now called for most economically. He wished this country to remain on friendly terms with the United States, and therefore he thought it unwise to hazard that friendship, by leaving Canada a tempting object for invasion. He should support not only the present, but all future votes, of the like nature. This country would not be acting fairly and justly to Canada, if protection were not extended to her; and when he spoke of protection, he meant effectual protection. When he said he would vote for the present and for future grants of the same nature, he gave that pledge with this condition.—that efforts should be made,
1632Mr. Labouchere
1628 said, the gallant officer had declared, that the military part of the service was brought as low as the circumstances of the country admitted. There he was at issue with him. He would not dwell on the question, whether we ought to have
1628Mr. Hume
1638 said, that the hon. member for Callington had not urged this country to abandon Canada, but had recommended that we should place that country in such
1638Mr. Hume
16371636 said, that although the hon. member for Preston had more than once referred to him, he had refrained from rising, because he wished, before he decided upon the present vote, to hear it defended by some competent authority. He was happy to say, he had found the authority he sought in the speech of the Colonial Secretary, whose explanation had perfectly convinced him of the necessity for this vote. He could not agree that the United States were not ambitious of possessing new territories; and of all the British settlements, he felt assured that the Canadas formed the first object of their ambition. He believed that the ambition which prompted America, in 1812, was ready to be called into action, on the first occasion. The House should recollect, that but for the defenceless state of the Canadas in 1812, that aggression which cost this country so much of its best blood and treasure, would never have taken place. Were we not wise, therefore, to provide against a similar aggression, by adopting those precautions which sound policy dictated? When the enormous expense incurred
16371636Mr. Huskisson
 considered these fortification necessary to preserve the dépôts and communications between the different points of defence.Sir E. Owen
l.l.l.l. said, it had been objected, that this vote was brought on at a late period of the session; but what was the reason of it? It was wished that these estimates should be investigated by the Finance Committee; and the hon. member for Preston complained, at one and the same time; first, that the vote was brought on so late; and next, that it was not postponed until they had received the report of the committee who were inquiring into the state of Canada. He begged the House not to be misled by the supposition, that this was a system of fortification, and that if one part of the works must be performed, all must. The House was not called upon to pledge itself to any thing of the kind. Two of the works which it was now proposed to erect were necessary retreats of security and repair for our gallant navy, which might be injured in engagements or by tempests. It had been said, that we never could maintain our naval superiority on these stations; but certain it was, that we had done so during the last war. He thought that there were sufficient grounds to justify these two works. As to the Rideau Canal, an hon. friend had stated the importance of it in a commercial view; but it was more immediately required on military grounds. The conveyance on the St. Lawrence was difficult enough in time of peace, but almost impracticable in time of war. To give the House an idea of these difficulties, he would mention a few facts which occurred in the late war. The conveyance of a twenty-four pounder from Quebec to Kingston cost from 150l.l.l.l.Sir G. Murray
l.1631, hearing it admitted, that
l.1631Mr. Robinson
 said, that the hon. member for Callington had most truly stated, that all our foreign colonies would in the lapse of time, become independent of the mother country. That such an event must happen there was no denying; and consequently this country ought in time to prepare for the separation, not by fortifying the Canadas, but by preparing them to become independent. With this view, instead of hurrying the present vote through the House, let ministers come down next session with a statement of such reasonable expenditure as would be required for the furtherance of a measure which sooner or later must take place.Lord Howick
lll1642lll1641 said, he should have felt more gratified if he had not been called upon to bring forward the present motion, until every member could have had a copy of the Report of the finance Committee on which it was founded. The House would learn from that Report the reasons which had led the Committee unanimously to recommend the measure with which he should conclude. The Bill would relate solely to civil superannuations, and to the retiring pensions of foreign ministers. In the course of the inquiries of the Finance Committee, they could not fail to be struck with the large proportion of the expense of the inefficient part of the public service to that of the effective part. The whole expense of the effective part of the public service was twenty-one millions; while the ineffective part, or, to speak more accurately, the remuneration for past services, imposed on
lll1642lll1641The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that when hon. members looked at the situation which the clerks in these public offices held, he was sure they would agree with him that; the spirit of a gentleman ought to pervade those who held them. They should feel that they had a character to lose. He was sure that the clerks themselves were animated by that feeling, and that it was owing to the prevalence of that feeling, that the subordinate stations in the public offices in this country were filled by a class of individuals in whom could be placed higher confidence than in the employes of the same grade in other countries. It was; evident that a great degree of confidence must be placed in these clerks. A clerk in the foreign offices, for instance, must often be in possession of the most important secrets. He ought, then, to have a salary sufficient to maintain him in his rank as a gentleman; especially as he was cut off from all other profitable employment.—What he had said was not in consistent with the support which he intended to give this bill.Mr. Secretary Peel
 thought the bill an extremely harsh, ungenerous, and illiberal measure. It conveyed an imputation upon all corporations.Colonel Sibthorpe
 defended his hon. relative from the attack which had been made upon him by the hon. member opposite (Mr. Ross), and charged in turn that hon. gentleman with participating himself in the Corporate Funds of Northampton. He hurled back upon the hon. gentleman, with the strongest feelings of contempt, those insinuations in which he had indulged at the expense of his hon. relative.Mr. Maberly
 owned he had been betrayed too far by his feelings, and retracted the expression.Mr. Maberly
 thought it would be a great improvement if corporate bodies were obliged, at stated periods, to publish their accounts. But, at the same time, he thought it would be wrong if the King's-bench, or any other court, should be suffered to control the funds of corporate bodies. He supported the bill, on the ground that corporations were trustees, and that, to employ Corporate Funds for election purposes, was a misapplication of the money committed to their hands.Mr. D. Gilbert
 put it to the House whether such language was at all sanctioned by parliamentary usage.Mr. Ross
 said, that the bill did not go on a general principle, but was intended for a particular purpose. He could not help thinking it very remarkable, that the former bill was brought in by the hon. member for Northampton, and the present bill by the hon. member for Leicester. In 1761, the Irish House of Commons decided, that the Corporation Funds of the city of Dublin ought to be applied to the repairing and making of roads: and instances were numerous of a similar application of Corporate Funds.Mr. Ross
l1645 was adverse to the principle and to the details of the bill, more especially to the clause subjecting any member of a corporation, who proposed a grant of money for election purposes, to
l1645Mr. G. Bankes
1643 contended, that the Commander-in-Chief had done all in his power to keep down the dead-weight of the army; that was to say, the half-pay. As a proof of it he would state, that since 1820, one-fifth of that dead-weight had been absorbed. With respect to the clerks of the public offices, he thought that they could not be fairly compared with the clerks in banking-houses, or merchants' counting-houses. The latter had
1643Sir H. Hardinge
 said, it seemed to him that the hon. member who spoke last but one, had put the question on its true grounds. He thought that no funds could find their way to corporations, but as the public property, and as such they ought to be protected. He was friendly to corporations, thinking them, as he did, the best system of government for large places; but unwatched and unchecked, they would be sorry trustees of public property. He would support the public, though he could have wished to have seen it in a more perfect shape. He trusted that the House of Lords would make such improvements in it as it required.Mr. Hudson Gurney
 thought that public clerks were well enough paid. As to the advantages which had been described as belonging to private clerks, it was well known that these advantages rarely occurred.Mr. Monck
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had fairly stated the sentiments of the Finance Committee, which in this instance had been unanimous. He confessed he was sorry to find that government had departed from the prudent arrangement which it had come to, after a minute investigation of the subject, some years ago. He complained of the system by which he found clerks in different departments, whose duties were almost the same, rewarded by a different scale of remuneration. He thought that the heads of the departments ought to settle these irregularities of salary. All the departments had exceeded the scale at which individuals paid their clerks; but, in our large establishments, we could only perform a task of reduction in these matters by degrees; and therefore it was that he concurred in the resolution of the Finance Committee, though they had not made a reduction equal to that which he had anticipated.Mr. Hume
1644 considered the bill an unjustifiable interference with vested rights. Corporations were meant to possess political influence, and that influence ought to be maintained by the legislature. Lord Ellenborough had said, that as the funds of corporations had been purchased by: their members, or had been granted by the Crown without any definite restriction, he did not see why a corporate body had not as much right to appropriate its funds as it pleased, as any individual. The right had never been shewn to be abused. In the case of Northampton, the sum had not been appropriated to election purposes
1644Mr. Fyler
 defended the bill, and contended that its only object was to prevent interference with the freedom of election.Mr. Spring Rice
 said, it was well known, that the clerks in public offices regarded themselves in a superior situation; and that they would be very unwilling to change places with private clerks.Mr. W. Smith
 could not consent to the establishing of a new law on this subject, unless it went a great deal further, and declared it illegal not only for corporations, but for all combinations to supply money to procure the return of members. Was the hon. member for Limerick prepared to say, that the Catholic rent ought not to be applied to electioneering purposes? He conceived that corporations had just as much right to assist candidates in becoming members of parliament, as any other persons.Mr. Trant
1646 said, he rose to propose a resolution for the repeal of what was called the Dead Weight Act. The measure which he now proposed to repeal, had been under discussion before the Finance Committee, and the result was, that, in the opinion of that committee, the arrangement under that act should not be continued. In 1821, the great pressure on the finances of the country made the government anxious to find out any means to relieve it. It was accordingly proposed
1646The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that a more injurious measure than this act had never passed that House. It was a downright fraud; and had entailed a heavy expense upon the country. Not one of the members of the Finance Committee had defended it.Mr. Maberly
 said, he had no great objection to the proposal of his right hon. friend, though he saw no necessity for it. He did not think that any danger was to be apprehended from the withdrawal of this money; because the depositors were so numerous, that it would require the concurrence of half a million of people before much harm could be done. It would be easy to alter the bill, if it should be found to be dangerous.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed the measure, because he was convinced, if it were passed, that no man's freehold would be safe. He should move "That the bill be read a third time this day three months."Colonel Wilson
 seconded the amendment. He would contend, that all corporations had a right to use their own property in any way that to them seemed good, provided such property were not specifically destined to the support of charitable foundations; and in this he was backed by the opinions of three chancellors. He could see no more impropriety in a corporation expending part of its funds to return a townsman, who was acquainted with the interests of a borough, to parliament, than there was in the voting of swords and snuff-boxes to gallant officers by the city of London.Lord Lowther
 described the tyrannical conduct of the mayor of Queenborough, who had ruined the poor fishermen of that place, because they would not vote as he pleased; and contended, that, with such a case of the misappropriation of Corporate Funds before them, they were bound to adopt the present measure.Mr. Capel
165016491648 said, he should not follow the hon. gentleman who immediately preceded him into any discussion of the merits or demerits of the right worshipful the mayor of Queensborough; but should directly address himself to the arguments of the noble lord (Lowther)—backed, as the noble lord asserted himself to be, by the opinions of three Chancellors; but which very remarkable opinions he could not but think must, of necessity,
165016491648Mr. Hudson Gurney
16521651 said, that the effect of this assumed power of recurring to corporate funds in contested elections, on the freedom of the representation, was with him
16521651Mr. Gurney
 would vote against the bill, which he conceived to be perfectly uncalled for.Mr. Ross
 conceived that it was no part of the duty of corporate bodies to support the return of members of parliament. He should therefore support the bill.Mr. Batley
1647 said, the danger mentioned by the right hon. gentleman seemed to him very great; seeing that all those who had money in Savings Banks
1647Mr. Hudson Gurney
 was glad that this mischievous act was to be repealed. If suffered to continue, the public would be losers to the extent of four millions by it. As it was, it had occasioned the loss of one million to the public; notwithstanding which the individual who introduced the measure had been since rewarded with a pension and a peerage.Mr. Hume
 said, that a worse measure than that which was about to be repealed, it had never entered into the head of man to propose.Mr. Leycester
ll said, that the danger which might result from the sudden withdrawal of the money invested by the Savings Banks, in time of war or of panic, must be apparent. He should therefore propose this clause,—"that whenever the sum borrowed from the Savings Banks amounted to 20,000,000llMr. F. Lewis
 said, he would withdraw the clauses, and leave to ministers the responsibility of guarding the country against the danger which he anticipated.Mr. F. Lewis
l1664llllllllllllllllllll1663ll166216611660lllllllllllllllllll1659lllllll1658llll1657llllllllllll1656lllllll1655lllllllllllllll16541653 rose. He said that the period was at length arrived, when the supplies being closed, it became his duty to submit to the House a statement of the finances of the country for the current year. In so doing, he was not insensible to the difficulties of the task, at all times arduous, but particularly so in a first statement; neither did he overlook the peculiar disadvantages under which he laboured. The House could not forget, that the last financial statement was made by a right hon. gentleman, unfortunately now no more, to whose great talents and public services they had more than once borne ample testimony during the present session: they could not forget, that whatever subject that right hon. gentleman undertook, he was enabled to adorn in a manner not to be surpassed. He felt no
l1664llllllllllllllllllll1663ll166216611660lllllllllllllllllll1659lllllll1658llll1657llllllllllll1656lllllll1655lllllllllllllll16541653The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1667ll1666llllllldsldsllllll1665lllll said, that the right hon. gentleman had dealt with the whole subject fully and fairly. The amount of surplus upon which the right hon. gentleman had calculated in 1828, was at the outside 2,000,0001667ll1666llllllldsldsllllll1665lllllMr. Maberley
lll16741673l1672, after defending the late Mr. Canning from the charge brought against him by the hon. member for Aberdeen, of inaccuracy, in the budget which he had introduced last year, observed, that the hon. member had alluded to the Dead Weight act. Now, he would distinctly say, that the members of government, who belonged to the Finance Committee, had gone as far as any others to put an end to that system. With respect to the Sinking-fund, no one could have been more anxious than he was, to arrive at the true principle of that fund divested of all the intricacy which had been interwoven with the subject. When the subject came before the Finance Committee, opinions were divided on the subject, and he believed he might venture to state that the proposition for the abolition of the present Sinking-fund proceeded from one of the members of his majesty's government. At the same time, while he expressed these sentiments, he was anxious to discounte-
lll16741673l1672Mr. Herries
1671 contended, that every reduction of debt ought to be accompanied by a suitable reduction of taxation. It was quite plain that by paying at the rate of eighty-eight and ninety, a debt, the greater portion of which had been contracted at the rate of sixty-two, a deal of
1671Mr. Monck
llllll1670lllll1669slsldslsllllllldsllldslllll1668ll said, he was happy to address the House that evening on this subject under an altered state of things. How often, within the last five years, had they heard within those walls the sentiments which had now come from the mouth of the chancellor of the Exchequer reprobated and denied, when issuing from his (Mr. H. 's) lips? The right hon. gentleman had admitted, that the established system was erroneous, and the Finance Committee had censured it as too bad to be continued any longer. He should not now go into an examination of Mr. Pitt's system of finance. He contended, that no government could benefit by trafficking in its own securities. There had been no budget presented for many years, without his making this statement. But how had it been met by government? By nothing but a mere denial. He had flattered himself, that in the Finance Committee the Treasury would allow it to be ascertained, how far his allegation of loss to the public was correct. He had made up an account of the surplus revenue which we had had since 1816; thinking that that account would lead to the simplest mode of ascertaining the loss which we had sustained. He had laid that account before the committee, and had called upon the government, if it were incorrect, to point out where the incorrectness lay. He would now state to the House what had been the loss by the Sinking-fund since the year 1816, from which year we had had a surplus revenue. From 1816 to 1828, there was a surplus revenue of 35,000,000llllll1670lllll1669slsldslsllllllldsllldslllll1668llMr. Hume
 was delighted to find that that glorious piece of nonsense, the Sinking fund was about to be extinguished. The evil of our system was, that we had too much capital and too little income. The Sinking-fund operated like a sumptuary law, crippling trade and limiting commercial speculation.Mr. Leycester
 said, he was desirous to express his opinion with regard to one point; namely, the promise invariably held out to the holders of funded property relative to the maintenance of the Sinking-fund. He would recur to the words of lord Liverpool, relative to this fund, and would then leave the House to judge, whether the fundholder should be left without the protection of the Sinking-fund, when the landed interest had obtained a Corn-bill. The words of lord Liverpool were—"So much profit will accrue from the remission of taxes—but, at what loss? No less than the abandonment of the Sinking-fund, which I maintain is the great support of public credit, whatever may be its amount." In a subsequent paragraph his lordship stated: "The next object to which government has directed its attention, is the maintenance of a Sinking-fund of five millions; and it is my sincere hope and belief, that we shall have a surplus revenue sufficient to accomplish that desirable object." He did not read these extracts with a view to embarrass government: but he felt it his duty to ask, on behalf of the fundholder, that the House should declare what he was to expect.Mr. Ward
l.1682lll1681llllll1680lll1679dslslsllll1678ll1677ll1676llllllll1675 said, he did not rise for the purpose of objecting to the statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer, on which he founded the ways and means of his budget: it appeared to him to be a perfectly fair statement, and that he might have even gone further in estimating the probable revenue for this year. The same fairness had marked the conduct of the right hon. gentleman, and the Master of the Mint, in the Finance Committee, and had very much contributed to save the time of the committee, and to advance the objects for which it had been appointed.—The first observations he had to make on the subject under debate, he should apply to the new plan of a Sinking-fund: he thought the chancellor of the Exchequer had not correctly or sufficiently explained: this plan to the House, at least the plan I recommended by the Committee of Fi-
l.1682lll1681llllll1680lll1679dslslsllll1678ll1677ll1676llllllll1675Sir Henry Parnell
 having withdrawn the motion for the second reading of the bill, the said petition, and also one presented by sir H. Hardinge from the clerks in the Ordnance Department, and one presented by Mr. F. Buxton, from the Clerks in the Excise, were brought up. On the motion, that the bill be read a second time,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1686l.l. said, he was anxious to state to the House his opinions with reference to this question. He felt that he was placed in a very painful situation, but still he would not shrink from the performance of his duty. The House had appointed a committee for the purpose of revising the expenditure of the country; and that committee had almost unanimously declared, that such a measure as that which he had introduced ought to be carried into effect. Standing in the situation which he had the honour to fill, he should have been charged with a high degree of cowardice, if, after such a recommendation, he had refused to bring the measure before the House. On that account he was prepared to vindicate the bill, and to state the reasons on which the committee had come to their decision. The whole expenditure for the service of the country the committee found to amount to twenty-one millions, and of this five millions were appropriated to the ineffective service, including superannuation, pension, and retired allowances. The committee was anxious not to deprive the country of the active services of those who were engaged in the public departments, and they therefore turned their attention, to consider if it were possible, without any deviation from just principle, prospectively to diminish the expenditure for services that were passed. Of the five millions which the ineffective service of: the country cost, the committee found that nearly half a million was appropriated to the payment of the civil pensions, and this sum had been increased within a few years from 330,0001686l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1687 said, he disliked the bill on account of its retrospective operation, and was still mere opposed to it, because it would bring into action a principle never heard of before; namely, that those who spent their lives in public offices should provide for the wants of their old age out of the salaries which were granted to them as a remuneration for their present labours. It had always been a principle, recognized by the House and by the country, that those who had served the public well should not be deserted by the public in old age, in sickness, or distress. This was a wise, a politic, and a generous principle; and he must say that he did not like the words of the report of this most respectable committee, when they called money applied in accordance to this principle, a loss to the public. Public servants paid a large and usurious interest for the money thus bestowed upon them. With respect to military services, this principle was instantly admitted, and the money was cheerfully applied. And why not with respect to civil services, where there was not only the absence of that fame, and splendor, and renown, which in themselves constituted recompense for military
1687Mr. C. Grant
1690 thought that, if there was an intention to do justice to the public clerks, it would be necessary to examine into particular cases; some of which stood on very different grounds from others; and this was one of the reasons why he thought it right for the House to pause before they came to any decision; but at the same time he would take upon himself to say, that a most disagreeable task had been imposed upon the Finance Committee, and it by no means followed that they had been wrong in their execution of it. As far as the measure was prospective, whatever the legislature should resolve upon, would, perhaps, be fair; but it should be remembered, that this bill was also retrogressive in its enactments; besides which it was founded on the bill of 1822, which had been repealed by parliament in 1824. According to his view the proposed measure was neither more
1690Mr. Wilmot Horton
 called the attention of the House to a respectable body of individuals connected with the Hackney-coach-office. Many of them had been upwards of twenty years in that office, and their interests would be materially affected by the operation of this bill.Colonel Sibthorp
1683 rose to present a petition, which had, he said, been put into his hands, signed by upwards of five hundred clerks, in the various public offices, which he begged, previously to the right hon. gentleman's motion, for the second reading of the bill, to recommend to the attention of the House. The allegations of the petitioners were; first, that the measure would be a breach of compact; secondly, that it went to charge on a smaller number now employed, the Superannuations of a greater number of persons, who had been discharged on the reduction of the scale of the establishments; thirdly, that the labour of the reduced establishments, so far from admitting a diminution of their salaries, was now so very great, as rather to give them an equit-
1683Mr. Hudson Gurney
1684 said, he understood there was one office, where there was an establishment of a hundred and sixty clerks, of whom only seventy-six were now retained: and that seventy-six would, under this bill, be charged their proportion for the superannuation allowances of those who had been dismissed. Under these circumstances, he trusted the right hon. gentleman might be induced to postpone the measure to another session for further inquiry, as it must be quite evident, emanating as it did, from a report of the Finance Committee, only that day put into the hands of the members, that it could not by possibility have received the consideration which a measure, pressing so hard on so large and meritorious a class of public servants, unquestionably merited. Indeed, he could not but greatly regret, in as far as he had yet seen, that the reports of the Finance Committee had gone to the reduction of the fair and reasonable remuneration of those public officers who performed efficient and heavy labour; many of them already with inadequate salaries, instead of having, on a more enlarged view of the financial state of the country, proposed the origination of any measure which had been likely to give any effectual relief. He had been one who had voted in the majority on the question of the Lieutenant-general of the Ordnance, on the statement of those who might be considered best able to judge of the necessity, of the continuance of the office; but
1684Mr. Gurney
 said, that in moving that the petition be read, he should wish it to be read at length, and presumed to request the attention of gentlemen to the statement of the parties immediately interested, as that statement would be found much more clear as well as more forcible than any thing that he could offer in its support.Mr. Gurney
ex post facto1685 expressed himself hostile to the measure. He thought the opinion of Mr. Burke a very just one; namely, that "parsimony was not economy, and that a good servant well paid was the most valuable and the cheapest." He regretted that the Finance Committee should at so late a period of the session have recommended a measure which, if carried, would be injurious to the character of parliament, seeing that the principle was founded in injustice. Every man entered office under an implied contract, that after the lapse of
ex post facto1685Mr. H. Davis
minimum thought that the Finance Committee had not had time to look into the merits of the subject. He had commenced life as a clerk in a public office, and in that situation he had had opportunities of seeing how business was done. He could not but say that, in some offices, there were some idle men. He considered, that the House ought not to fix the salaries at the minimumMr. Courtenay
 was of opinion, that the measure would inflict great hardship on many deserving individuals.Mr. Trant
 likewise supported the postponement of the measure.Mr. Robinson
l.l.1689ex parte1688l.l.l.l. said, that the chancellor of the Exchequer had stated accurately the course of reasoning followed by the Committee of Finance. They found that the charge for superannuation allowances had increased from 94,000l.l.1689ex parte1688l.l.l.l.Sir H. Parnell
 said, there appeared to be two very different views of the question, one of which had been painted by his hon. friend who spoke last, on the side of saving; and the other by the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. C. Grant), on the side of justice; and certainly the term justice might be applied to a case in which no less than three thousand persons were so deeply interested, and whose comfort and respectability depended so much on the turn this measure might take. It was very necessary that this comfort and respectability should be kept up, for it added, in no small degree, to the public welfare; and it was a remarkable thing, that every foreigner who had inquired into the subject had borne testimony to the fact, that there was less divulging of the secrets of office among the public servants of England than in any other state in Europe; and it was equally true, that within the last century there had been much less of fraud and peculation among the officers of the public than in any other kingdom.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, that to the operation of the principle prospectively, he had no objection, but he felt a very strong repugnance to its retrospective effect.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that if the hon. member had no other evidence respecting the transactions which formed the subject of the petition, than statements derived from the person who signed it, or from his solicitor, he was conversant with every part of the case which related to the right hon. judge, and he pledged his character to the fact, that there never had been a charge brought before the House, more totally destitute of truth. He should not do justice to the right hon. judge, in whose court he had practised for twenty years, if he did not avail himself of that opportunity, not only of bearing testimony to the assiduity, ability, and impartiality with which he had presided in that court, but also of stating that the petition in question came before the House under the name of an individual who was not its author. It came, in reality, from a pettifogging attorney, who had been guilty of perjury, and had attempted extortion.Dr. Lushington
 said, that nothing could be more unjust than the course which the hon. gentleman had pursued. This was another abuse of the privileges of the House. After giving notice of a charge against the right hon. gentleman, was it fair in the hon. member to say he had been out of town, and was unable to make himself master of the accusation? The character of the right hon. judge was a sufficient protection against vague and groundless accusations: but such might not be the case in every instance.Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that the hon. member should have ascertained whether there were grounds for the complaint before he had given notice of presenting such a petition.The Attorney-General
1702 said, that men of higher honour than the petitioners were not to be found in the city of London. He felt bound to support their claims with all the energy of which he was capable. Many of those persons had been reduced from affluence to a state of abject poverty. One of them had been living on the bounty of his friends, expecting daily an adjudication in his favour; but having sunk under his misfortunes, he was now the inmate of a public hospital. If that unhappy situation was the result of any fault of his own, his case might not call for the interposition of
1702Mr. Alderman Thompson
l said, he would confine himself to the single point of the imperative duty which had devolved upon government to see the convention fulfilled. Here was a case in which a regular arrangement had been made between a person in the confidence of the Spanish court. It was not denied that the agents of the court of Madrid had acted with full powers; but it was alleged that they had exceeded their instructions. Now, suppose the British claimants had agreed to accept 500,000lMr. Fergusson
1703 said, it was quite impossible to deny the undoubted justice of the claims of the petitioners—claims recognised and ratified by a solemn convention, and the right hon. gentleman had borne testimony to the exertions of those who had attempted to give effect to that convention. He knew that Mr. Canning, and after him lord Dudley, had given their utmost attention to those claims. His noble friend, who at present presided over the Foreign Department, had been so much occupied, since his entrance into office, that he had not been able to attend to that particular subject. He nevertheless believed, that nothing was more on his noble friend's mind, than to obtain justice for the petitioners. If, having said thus much, he should offer any opposition to the motion, he trusted it would not be attributed to any intention to oppose claims, the justice of which he had already proclaimed. He thought the right hon. gentleman himself must see, that the manifestation of the opinion of the House would be sufficient for his object. He thought also that to pledge the House to
1703Mr. Secretary Peel
ll was aware of the great inconvenience of the present state of the Unfunded Debt. In 1825, the Bank could scarcely have gone on two hours without a Restriction act. He thought the present system of the deficiency-bills was dangerous. The Bank, by the government anticipating its quarter's revenue, might be in a situation to say, if they did not grant them a Restriction act, that they would not make advances to pay the dividends. The Bank ought never to have had a Restriction act without paying for it to the country. It ought to reduce its rate of discount, and the Sinking-fund should be spent in reducing the Unfunded Debt; for, by purchasing in the 3½ per cents, instead of the Unfunded Debt, the country would lose 200,000llMr. Maberley
 said, he entirely concurred in the general principles which his right hon. friend had laid down. With regard to the Bank, he would observe, that the directors were the best judges of its proper management, and that the government had nothing more to do than to watch their proceedings, if their transactions appeared to interfere with the concerns of the country. With regard to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, he must beg it to be distinctly understood, that he had given no pledge that the surplus revenue should be applied solely to the reduction of the Unfunded Debt. While the government diligently attended to the pecuniary concerns of the country, they would not fail to avail themselves of any circumstances which might appear advantageous for the reduction of the Debt, whether funded or unfunded. But he could not think that it would be at all beneficial to accede to limit the power of the commissioners to the purchase of one particular fund. He did not pledge himself to any particular course of conduct: he only asked, on behalf of the government, that they should be left free and unrestricted, but responsible for their conduct, if they should be found to abuse the powers placed in their hand by parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
"Researches in Southern Africa;" a work which contained more information on the subject, than any book he had ever read.1694 rose to move, that an Address be presented to His Majesty representing, "That this House has observed with great satisfaction, that the original Natives of South Africa have always been recognized by the British government as a free people, having a lawful abode in the Colony; and that the British government has promised to protect their persons, property, and possessions, the same as those of other free people:—That this House humbly solicits His Majesty to cause such instructions to be sent to the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope, as shall most effectually secure to all the Natives of South Africa, the same freedom and protection as are enjoyed by other free people of that Colony,
"Researches in Southern Africa;" a work which contained more information on the subject, than any book he had ever read.1694Mr. Fowell Buxton
1697 said, that if the right hon. gentleman thought it worth while to vindicate his character, he would remain in town twenty-four hours for that purpose. He would present the petition on Tours-
1697Mr. Hume
 said, he was compelled to postpone presenting a petition complaining of proceedings in the Prerogative Court of Canterbury, and of the conduct of sir John Nicholl, of which he had given notice. Having been absent from town, he had not had time to see that the allegations in the petition were confirmed by affidavits. It was, therefore, his intention to postpone his motion till to-morrow.Mr. Hume
1696 said, he had read the petition, and believed the allegations which it contained; but, because he thought it
1696Mr. Hume
 said, that ministers ought to be compelled to apply the surplus according to some settled principle, and to redeem some particular Stock. He could not approve of the principle of the bill; because it obliged the government to appropriate three millions to the redemption of the Debt, until parliament again met; and if the consolidated fund did not yield this sum, it was only establishing a Sinking-fund with two millions less. The bill was inconsistent with the resolution of the Finance Committee, and therefore he objected to it.Mr. Hume
 said, it was an extreme grievance that a notice, like the one in question, should have been circulated all over the country. The right hon. judge had presided over his court for twenty years, and it was universally admitted, that in no court was justice more expeditiously or impartially administered. When this right hon. judge came down to meet a charge of which notice had been publicly given, the hon. member said he would put it off. If the hon. member did not bring it forward now, he was bound not to do so after the right hon. gentleman had left town.Dr. Phillimore
1704bona fide said, he trusted that the period was near at hand, when the claimants would obtain that fair compromise which, under all the circumstances, could be accepted by them; always providing that such compromise was binding on the king of Spain, and to be forthwith 1704bona fideMr. Huskisson
1708l1707l1706llll1705l said, that in the general view which the chancellor of the Exchequer had taken of our finances, he for the most part cordially concurred: but there was no opinion of his right hon. friend in which he more cordially concurred, than that in which he declared, that we ought to have no Sinking-fund save that which was produced by the surplus of our revenue above our expenditure. Though he was not prepared to quarrel with the proposed reduction in the Sinking-fund, he was disposed to lament that that fund would not he larger in amount. A Sinking-fund of 3,000,0001708l1707l1706llll1705lMr. Huskisson
 said, he concurred generally in the views of the hon. member.: He had nothing more at heart than to make all classes in the colonies sensible, that his majesty was desirous to extend to them protection equal to that enjoyed by his subjects in any other part of his dominions.—The motion was agreed to.Sir G. Murray
 observed, that the claimants had so often expressed themselves willing to accept of a fair compromise, that he could not think of urging them to adopt a course, towards which they were so perfectly disposed already.—He could not help thinking, however, that the declaration of the right hon. gentleman as to the anxiety with which this government had urged the claim of common honesty upon the government of Spain, and, as the result had proved, with so little success, afforded no great prospect of a satisfactory arrangement.—In conclusion, he took it to be the understanding of the House, as much so as if they had expressed it by resolution, that he now abstained from urging the claim, from the conviction that government would take the most effectual means in their power to procure compensation for the petitioners.Sir J. Mackintosh
1701maximumlll1700lll1699ll1698l rose to call the attention of the Mouse to a case of no ordinary importance, as affecting the interests of a variety of British Merchants trading to, resident in, or connected with, Spain. He was charged with presenting in behalf of those persons a petition, enumerating the harassing delays and disappointments they had experienced in their attempts to recover their property, or a compensation for its loss, under a convention concluded between his majesty's government and the king of Spain in the spring of 1823. He believed there was not on record a more manifest, obstinate, and inflexible, instance of denial of justice than this, on the part of the king of Spain towards British subjects. Their losses amounted to above 3,000,0001701maximumlll1700lll1699ll1698lSir James Mackintosh
 said, he was quite ready to meet any charge which might be preferred against him, and thought it rather hard that the hon. member should decline proceeding with his accusation that day, after having published a notice to that effect all over the kingdom. He could justify his conduct, he hoped, to the satisfaction of the House. Under the impression that the petition would have been that day presented, he had disposed of all the business of his court, and made arrangements to leave town with his family to-morrow. He should certainly expect the hon. gentleman to proceed according to his notice. He was ready to assume that the statements of the petition were confirmed by affidavit.Sir J. Nicholl
 said, the hon. member had given notice of a motion for that night, directed against him; and here he was in his place to meet the charge. But the hon. gentleman had postponed his motion, on the ground of his not being prepared with affidavits to substantiate his statements. He could not help thinking it hard that he and his family should be obliged to remain in town, in order to meet the convenience of the hon. gentleman. The hon. member ought to have satisfied himself, that the allegations contained in the petition were well founded, before he came forward to impugn the character of a gentleman who had filled a high judicial situation for twenty years, without the slightest imputation upon that character. Every one knew how painful such a charge was however triumphant might ultimately be the answer to it; for there were always to be found persons ready to believe that there existed some foundation for it. It was a grievous thing that there should exist in this country a lion's mouth, into which all sorts of vague accusations might be cast, and from which charges could proceed without the slightest foundation. If the hon. member did not bring forward his charge that night, he should not consider it necessary to remain in town, but should leave the matter in the hands of his hon. friends [cheers].Sir J. Nicholl
 said, that the discussion had offered the best answer to the calumnies which had been circulated in another place, that the new South American States had so misconducted themselves, since their independence had been established, that the best thing that could be done would be to replace them under the dominion of the parent state. Now, it had been proved, in the case before the House, that the conduct of that parent state had been of a much more flagrant nature, than either Europe or America had furnished an lexample of. He feared, from what had already occurred, that the present government of this country was not disposed to press the claims of the petitioners on Spain, as vigorously as their predecessors had done, in the time of the Cortes; and he saw no reason why the present Spanish government should be treated with more indulgence than the government of the Cortes.Sir R. Wilson
 was anxious that the amendment should be carried, and thought that ministers ought to be still more so, for the sake of their own consistency;—as they had sanctioned the principle.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, the Vice-president of the Board of Trade had certainly led the House to understand, that he would continue in the steps of his predecessor. If his meaning had been mistaken, he should be glad if the right hon. gentleman would explain what his principles were.Mr. Maberly
 adverted to the injury which the East-India trade would sustain from this measure; the principle of which no member of the government had attempted to justify. The House had received a distinct pledge, when the former act was passed, that it was of a temporary nature, and would be suffered to expire. The hon. gentleman dwelt on the injury which the manufacturing interest in India would sustain, if the present system should be persevered in, and urged the expediency of acceding to the amendment.Mr. Fergusson
1743 opposed the third reading of
1743Mr. Lester
 said, he should vote with ministers on this question, as they had made a concession to him, which would considerably shorten the duration of the higher duty.Mr. C. Grant
 supported the amendment, and insisted on the pledge already given by government to the same effect.Mr. Hume
 said, he should move the same amendment which he had twice brought under the consideration of the Committee; namely, that the Duty on all Silk Goods imported into this country from India, after October 10, might not exceed thirty per cent.Mr. P. Thompson
 said, he had not heard a single argument against the amendment. Such an alteration in the bill was called for by the interests of the country.Mr. Wynn
1759l17581757Dux factil17561755 said, he was confident the House would extend its indulgence to him, when it recollected, that to him was committed the justification of a learned judge not present, who had long been a member of that House, had belonged to the profession of which he was an ornament for between forty and fifty years, and after filling the office of king's advocate, had, for nearly twenty years, been judge of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury. In the first place, he wished to be permitted to account for the absence of the distinguished individual, at whose conduct the petition chiefly aimed. To the astonishment of that right hon. judge, he first saw in the notices of Friday last, a notice for the Tuesday following, in which he was denounced by name as a public delinquent. For what reason all fairness and delicacy of feeling had been disregarded in this case, he was at a loss to know. To the liberality of the hon. member for Montrose, the right hon. judge certainly owed nothing; but above all, it was extraordinary that the hon. member I should so denounce a party, hitherto with-
1759l17581757Dux factil17561755Dr. Lushington
1761 perfectly agreed with the hon. member for Colchester, that there was not the slightest reason for
1761The Attorney-general
 submitted, whether it was fair that a petition of this kind, containing such strong criminatory charges against a learned judge—charges, too, which were utterly unsupported—should be laid upon the table of the House.The Attorney-general
1764 said, that as the other House would not concur with them in measures for restraining the power of corporations, it was due to the dignity of that House, that they should pass a resolution, declaring it to be a breach of their privi-
1764Mr. Maberly
 said, that an expression used by the hon. member for Leicester called for some remark from him. He was willing to assume, that the hon. member harboured no intention to give him personal offence; but he was quite sure that the hon. member would excuse him, when he said, that the word "falsely" was improperly used: and he now asked the hon. member whether he meant to apply that term to him?Mr. Peel
1763 said, it was hardly to be expected, that the House should occupy itself with the election disputes of the borough of Leicester. It appeared to him, that the hon. member had been put forward by a party in that place, to bring before the House all their local contests. If he saw any intention to conceal any thing from the House; if he saw on the returns any evasions; if the returns had been false; or if he had seen any of the privileges of the House evaded—he should have been ready to accede to the motion. But he saw no grounds for instituting that formal kind of inquiry proposed by the
1763Mr. Secretary Peel
 trusted that his hon. friend would receive the advice of a friend. He was a calmer witness than his hon. friend, and he did not understand any of the expressions of the right hon. gentleman to be personally directed against his hon. friend.Mr. S. Rice
1767 said, the House must see that he could not have preceded the hon. member in concession. He knew that he had
1767Mr. Peel
 then withdrew his motion.Mr. O. Cave
 explained. In the course of his explanation, he observed, that he had not brought forward the motion because it originated with the party in the borough of Leicester which had sent him to the House. It had been signed by almost all the inhabitants. His election had no more to do with the petition than had the election for East Retford. If he had come down to the House with solemn plausibility, ingenious candour, and well-balanced cadence, and on that Election bill had declared he knew nothing of the dukery, and that that borough was under the influence of the duke of Newcastle, he should deserve as much to be believed as those were, who falsely imputed personal motives to him for the motion he had submitted. He would accept the proposal of the right hon. gentleman, and propose to-morrow an amended motion.Mr. O. Cave
 said, that after what had fallen from his hon. friends, it would seem most impertinent in him to resist their advice. "I beg leave, Sir," continued the hon. member, "to make the apology in the sense in which you wish it to be made."Mr. O. Cave
 could only repeat, that if he had said or done any thing that was contrary to the usages of the House,—if he had said or done any thing that was disrespectful to the House or to the chair, he was perfectly willing to apologize. The hon. member was then about to leave the House amidst loud cries of "order," but on being called upon by the Speaker he resumed his seat.Mr. O. Cave
 trusted, that he had never shown any disrespect to the chair or to the House; but he did not see how it could be fairly imputed to him, that he had drawn any distinction, when he had said that he apologized to the House. As to saying any thing further,—if any hon. member thought himself aggrieved by any thing that had fallen from him, let that hon. member get up and say that he had meant nothing personal to him, and he would say the same to that hon. member. But he did trust that there were no rules of that House which would deprive him of the vindication of his own honour, and of the maintenance of his personal character.Mr. O. Cave
 trusted he had never shown any disposition to act in a manner personally offensive to any member. He had no intention, in the present instance, to excite unpleasant feelings. Should the right hon. gentleman say, that he did not use those expressions in a personal sense, then he would make such a reply as would, he hoped, be satisfactory to the House.Mr. O. Cave
 said, he was ready to ask pardon of the House; but he spoke in the belief, that an attack had been made personally on him. He therefore must say, that he made the observations which had been adverted to in the same sense, whatever it might be, as that in which the remarks directed to him were uttered.Mr. O. Cave
 said, that no person could be more unwilling than he was to offend the House; but he would ask, did not the right hon. gentleman make an allusion that was personally offensive to him? It was only because he understood that the right hon. gentleman made such an allusion that he had used the words which gave rise to this discussion. There was no one whom he respected more than he respected the right hon. gentleman; but he owed it to his own honour, not to suffer unworthy motives to be imputed to him without repelling the charge. He bowed with submission to the forms of the House, and he had not the slightest hesitation in apologizing to the House and to the chair.Mr. O. Cave
 said, he understood the right hon. gentleman to state, that his motion originated in party feeling, growing-out of the Leicester election. If that were the case, he could not retract what he had said; because he was actuated by no such feeling. It was unfair, in the first place, to make such a charge; and, in the second, he conceived it to be falsely advanced.Mr. O. Cave
 in rising to move that the petition of the inhabitants of Leicester, which he had yesterday presented to the House, regarding the conduct of the Corporation of that borough, should be referred to a Select Committee, begged to state, that the returns, which had been ordered some time since by the House, from that Corporation, in reference to the building of a new gaol and house of correction in Leicester, had, after a great delay, been laid upon the table of the House, but in such an utterly imperfect form that the inhabitants had been unable to take any steps upon them, in order to show that a new gaol was not necessary, and that, therefore, they should not be burdened with an additional impost for its erection and support.Mr. Otway Cave,
1760lll said, it was not his intention to touch upon that part of the petition which complained of the conduct of sir John Nicholl; for, in his opinion, there was not the shadow of a foundation for the complaint. He had this reason for saying so—the decision of sir John Nicholl had been appealed from, and the tribunal to which the appeal was made did not consist of a single individual belonging to the court in which the right hon. Judge presided. Three common-law judges were called in to decide the appeal, and the result was a confirmation of the judgment of sir John Nicholl. There was, however, another branch of the case, to which the attention of the House had been very properly called, for the reason assigned incidentally by the learned doctor —namely, that at present there was no redress for the injury of which the petitioner complained. Of what was it that the petitioner complained? That being a litigant in one of the ecclesiastical courts in a suit by which he endeavoured to establish his claim to a property not exceeding 1,7001760lllMr. D. W. Harvey
 said, he did not rise to induce the right hon. gentleman to consent to the motion, but to observe, that as the law now stood, and the bill which had been sent up from that House had been lost in the other House, corporations might make any use they pleased of the corporation funds. As the principle was now avowed, he should expect to see corporations employing all their resources, at another election, in bringing up out-voters. He hoped, however, that another bill would be brought into that House more complete than the last; and he would suggest it as a subject well worthy the right hon. gentleman's attention.Mr. H. Gurney
 denied that he had ever been in the habit of bringing forward charges against individuals upon slight grounds, or of allowing them to remain over longer than was necessary. He denied that the present petition was any libel against sir John Nicholl, and contended, that the principle of the allegations it contained had not been refuted.Mr. Hume
1754ex-parteex-parte1753dictum1752lllll1751lllll1750lllll in presenting the petition relative to the proceedings in the Prerogative Court and the conduct of sir John Nicholl, observed, that in order to the better understanding of the complaint, he should state shortly the outlines of the transactions that had given rise to it. In 1821, a person of the name of Evans died possessed of property to the value of 1,7001754ex-parteex-parte1753dictum1752lllll1751lllll1750lllllMr. Hume,
 said, that this was not the place to remedy any grievance of which the petitioner might have to complain. The courts of law were open to him if he required redress. After many years' experience he would assert, that there was no court in the country in which justice was executed in a more satisfactory manner, and with less expense, than in the Prerogative Court. He had known the learned judge of that court for thirty years, and could bear testimony to his purity and integrity. The charges brought against him were utterly unfounded.Dr. Phillimore
 thought there could be no doubt as to the course which the hon. member should pursue. The mind of that man must be strangely constituted who did not think that the courage of avowing a fault was courage of the most manly character.Mr. R. Colborne
1762 strongly condemned the conduct of the hon. member for Aberdeen, in thus bringing forward charges, and keeping them suspended over the heads of individuals; whilst there were other steps, by which an aggrieved party could seek his remedy. He had known the right
1762Mr. H. Davis
1768 rose, to claim from the chancellor of the Exchequer the fulfilment of his engagement, by the introduction of a clause permitting the lord lieutenant of Ireland to exercise an entire control over the sums voted for Education in Ireland. The pledge given was, that lord Anglesey should be enabled by parliament to issue the sums voted, either in the whole or in part, subject to such conditions as should appear expedient, or should be allowed to transfer them altogether to other establishments, should he consider such to be more deserving of parliamentary support. Under the authority of such an enactment, the government of Ireland might introduce more liberal and rational principles into existing schools, or, if that were impossible, might in new establishments try the experiment recommended by the report of the Select Committee of which he was chairman. He would avail himself of the present opportunity of making a communication to the House, which would have come from his hon. and learned friend, the member for Winchdsea, who was prevented by indisposition and professional engagements from attending. It related to the subject of Education, and he felt confident that it would be gratifying both to the House and to the public Gentlemen would not have forgotten the laborious and interesting inquiries concerning schools commenced at the suggestion of his hon. and learned friend, several years back. The reports of the committees on Education and the digested returns prepared at that period, had given to the public the first accurate knowledge of the
1768Mr. Spring Rice
 said, it must be clear that the hon. member's apology was only a partial apology. The hon. member had spoken of his personal honour. The hon. member must know that it was the duty of the chair to take care that no gentleman's personal honour should be hurt; and he must repeat, that the surest way in which the hon. member could preserve his honour was, to comply strictly and cheerfully with the demand which had been made upon him. He again called on Mr. O. Cave. After a short pause,The Speaker
1766 said, that the hon. member should not be permitted to add further insult to the House. The hon. member must know that he had made use of personal language, which was not only offensive to the right hon. member against whom it was directed, but also to the House, whose forms and usages tolerated no such expressions. He really could not understand upon what principle it was,
1766The Speaker
 said, he solemnly assured the House, that if he conceived it possible, when the hon. gentleman used the expressions adverted to, that he meant to direct them against any individual, he should certainly have interfered. He never was more astonished than when he heard the explanation which the hon. member had given of his own words.The Speaker
 said, the hon. gentleman ought to express, that the words used by him were not intended as matter of personal offence to the right hon. gentleman.The Speaker
 said, that the hon. member did not appear to understand what the feeling of the House was. It was his duty to tell the hon. member, that the House called upon him for explanation and apology. This was the first time he had seen any gentleman display apprehension lest his honour should be injured by obeying the call of the House. He would tell the hon. member, that after what had passed, he would best consult his own honour by making the reparation which was now demanded of him. The Speaker then called twice upon Mr. O. Cave before the hon. member rose.The Speaker
1765 The hon. member knows, that the rules of this House are not to be trifled with, and that no language can be allowed here which is personally offensive.
1765The Speaker.
1776 said, he had not the least objection to the motion of his right hon. friend, as the production of the papers would tend to elucidate the question with which they were connected. The hon. gentleman who had just sat down had attempted to defend the last tariff, as a measure of retaliation. But it would be a most extraordinary proceeding indeed, if America should think fit to adopt measures of retaliation, at the very moment when we had relaxed the severity of our Corn-laws. Those documents appeared to him the most conclusive proofs of the impolicy of the tariff; and he was disposed to expect, from the good sense of America, that she would regard it in the same light. The right hon. gentleman had suggested that they should look out for new sources of commerce; but in doing so, it might be necessary to hold out new inducements to the countries with which that commerce was sought to be established. This would render the retracing their steps the more difficult at a future period; and therefore it should render them the more slow in resorting to such a step. His right hon.
1776Mr. Secretary Peel
 said, that if the right hon. the Secretary for the Home Department did not, early next session, bring forward some measure to prevent the misapplication of Corporate Funds, he should himself feel it his duty to do so. If nothing was done to check the growing evil, the House would have petitions sent up from every great town in the kingdom, in such language as would make them be heard.—The hon. gentleman afterwards gave notice, that he would next session move for leave to bring in a bill "for more effectually to prevent the misapplication of Corporate Funds to Election purposes in such Cities and Boroughs as return Members to Parliament, where the Right of Election is in freemen, freeholders or inhabitants."Mr. Hudson Gurney
 thought it would be much better, that government should not pay the least attention to the weak and ungenerous policy adopted, in this instance, by the United States, but leave it to fall by its own weakness. It was only a few years ago that we acted upon the same principle ourselves. One tiling rankled strongly in the breast of the Americans; and that was, our policy of excluding her staple trade, corn, from the ports of this country. He agreed in thinking, that for every pound which this country would lose by the operation of the tariff, America herself would lose five. If America persisted in her foolish plan, no doubt this country would soon find other connexions; and he was glad to hear an allusion made to the commerce of the Asiatic seas, which it would be so much the interest of Great Britain to cultivate. He differed, however, in thinking, that if the resolution to adopt retaliatory measures were once taken, it should be persisted in. The question would still arise, whether it would be to our advantage to adopt such a course.—For his own part, he was the enemy of all monopolies and restrictions.Mr. Hume
1775177417731772177117701769
1775177417731772177117701769Mr. Huskisson
 said, that under the circumstances, he did not deem it necessary to submit the resolutions of which he had given notice. He could not but express his pleasure at the gratifying intimation of the right hon. Secretary.Mr. W. Horton
 said, he had heard with great satisfaction the declaration of the right hon. gentleman; and the more especially as words of a different import had been attributed to a noble member of his majesty's government in the other House. He was glad that the pledge given in 1823 was not to dwindle down to a mere recommendation to the colonial legislatures.Mr. F. Buxton
 said, that he could not suffer the opportunity to pass, without stating explicitly that it was not the intention of the present government to depart from the principle of the resolutions passed in 1823—resolutions which did equal credit to the feelings of the House, and the liberality of the administration. It was the desire of government to introduce a system which would be beneficial to the slaves, without infringing on the rights of private property.Sir G. Murray
 presented a petition from the Protestant Dissenters of Charlton, Glocestershire, praying for the Abolition of Slavery. He would take that opportunity of giving notice, that unless government should, without delay, take means for carrying into effect the resolutions which the House had passed in 1823, the friends of this cause would themselves propose specific measures of colonial reformation, early next session. It was much to be desired, that the colonial legislatures might have the wisdom to render such interference unnecessary; as their own free acquiescence was infinitely the most convenient mode of adjusting the question. He was happy to say that his hon. and learned friend the member for Winchelsea had undertaken to bring this subject again under the consideration of parliament.Sir J. Mackintosh
8765 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—My Lords; In rising to address your lordships on the present occasion, with a view to propose that an humble and dutiful Address be presented to his Majesty, in reply to his most gracious Speech, which we have just heard read, I am fully sensible of the difficulties that must unavoidably, and of ne-
8765The Earl of Chichester
11109 said:—My Lords, in rising to second the motion of the noble lord, that an humble Address be presented to his Majesty, thanking him for the Speech which he has been graciously pleased to direct to be delivered from the Throne, I confess I feel peculiar satisfaction; the rather because I believe that the main points urged in that Speech are such as must necessarily convey a feeling of hope and consolation to all his Majesty's subjects. One ground of satisfaction at the tenor of the royal Speech is discoverable in the spirit of peace and amity that pervades it. It contains what may be construed into his Majesty's gracious declaration, and may be understood to convey an expression of the royal resolution, to use every possible exertion to maintain the repose of Europe on the firm foundation, the proud basis, on which the memorable efforts of English valour and conduct had placed it at the battle of Waterloo, and subsequently by means of the treaty of Paris. My Lords, I am rejoiced at the expression of such a sentiment; and connecting his Majesty's resolution with the peaceful assurances which our government continues to receive from the leading powers of Europe, I consider the Speech from the Throne well calculated to allay the anxiety which the present posture of public affairs in the east of Europe might otherwise excite. The maintenance of general tranquillity is an object well deserving the care of his Majesty's ministers, and, if steadily pursued, will confer more splendor, and reflect greater credit, on the national character, than the achievement of the most signal victories. At the same time, the peaceful triumphs to which I have alluded, not only possess the advantage of greater and more lasting renown, but are also more easily attained, than the hazardous, and sometimes ruinous, successes of war. My Lords, it is impossible to advert to a conflict, the occurrence of which we must all deplore, without admitting, that not even the glory connected with the achievement can, for a single instant, diminish the regret which our tri-
11109Lord Strangford
242322***212019***18jure divino171615141312 next rose. He began by assuring their lordships, that he had no intention when he entered the House that evening, to trouble their lordships with any observations on the Speech which had been delivered to them from the Throne—or to say one word which might interrupt the unanimity of their lordships on the present occasion. Many reasons, with which it was unnecessary to trouble their lordships, some of a private and personal nature, and some of a public and general character, made him wish not to enter into debate for any unnecessary purpose. He had expected, that the address which would be proposed that night in reply to his majesty's Speech would be one which would not cause any great, difference of opinion. He had been willing to overlook its faults of omission, many and grievous as they were: and he had been willing, moreover, to overlook any inconsiderate expressions, with which he might not be inclined to agree: and he would even now say, that with the general substance of the Speech he for one, was pretty well satisfied. He fully agreed with the noble lord, that the expressions which his majesty had used upon one great point—he meant his desire for peace—were such as became the Throne, and ought to be expected from it; and he felt as strongly as the Speech itself, that the great object
242322***212019***18jure divino171615141312Lord Holland
25 said, that before their lordships separated, he wished to offer a word or two on a very homely subject, of which, he was sorry to see there was no mention either in the Speech from the Throne or in the Address, though it had occupied no inconsiderable portion of their lordships' time during the last session. He meant the Corn-laws. Now, that subject appeared to him to be a more difficult subject for the administration even than the battle of Navarino. It would be a grievous question to any administration, and it would not be less so to the present, seeing that there were in it two or three avowed friends, two or three decided enemies, and—what was, perhaps, more dangerous than all, two or three concealed enemies to the Corn-laws. As there were in the present administration some persons who had been in the last administration, and in the administration before the last, and who most probably would also be found in the next administration, it was to be hoped, that while they were busy in making terms, and no doubt good terms, for themselves, they had not forgotten to make equally good terms for their own principles of free trade, and for a new Corn-law. He would, however, ask what security the country had upon the point? It was said, that the country had the same President of the Board of Trade that it had before. Now, he thought that the country would have a much better security, if the noble duke at the head of the government, who had the whole substantial power—who had not only the common and ordinary powers of prime minister, but had concentrated in himself the civil and military power—was known to entertain views favourable to free trade, and to the subject to which he alluded; but when he recollected the noble duke's conduct last year,
25Lord King
2726 said:—My lords, if there be any one subject more than another, on which the country is agreed as one man, it is, that there should be a complete settlement of the Corn question. I have, therefore, very great pleasure in being enabled to inform your lordships, that it is the intention of his majesty's government, at an early period of the present session, to submit to the consideration of parliament a measure relative to the Corn-laws, and for regulating the importation of corn, founded upon the principle of the measure which was introduced last session. Having thus been under the necessity of addressing your lordships, in answer to the question put to me by the noble baron, I hope I may be permitted to say a few words in answer to what fell from the noble lord who addressed the House just now. First, with regard to the term "ancient ally," I must state that the Ottoman power has long been an ally of this country; that the Ottoman power is an essential part of the balance of power in Europe; that the preservation of the Ottoman power has been, for a considerable number of years, an object, not only to this country, but to the whole of Europe; and that the revolutions which have occurred, the changes of possession which
2726The Duke of Wellington
28 expresssed a hope that, in the arduous situation in which the country was at present placed, no impediment would be thrown in the way of the government, in their efforts for the preservation of the peace of Europe. It could hardly be said, that there had been an administration in the country for the last nine months. It could hardly be said that there had been a parliament in the country which had either considered or done any thing for the same period. Under these circumstances, it was high time to look to the most pressing object of British interests,—the preservation of the peace of Europe. He did not mean to enter into the consideration of the treaties which had been alluded to, seeing that they were not at present before their lordships. If, however, he understood the meaning of those treaties, as he had read them in various publications, one of them aimed at the preserving of peace, and the other provided that hostilities should not be committed. Yet, in the
28The Earl of Eldon
29 said, that the last time he had spoken in that House, he had expressed his disapprobation of an unnatural alliance, which he had prophecied would soon dwindle away. A noble lord opposite had then made a very ingenious remark; but he would now ask him, whether recent events had not completely fulfilled his prophecy? He rejoiced at the change which had taken place. He trusted that, under the new administration, the country would be placed on a high and commanding situation. The name of the illustrious individual at the head of the government carried great weight with it throughout Europe. In no transaction of his public life had he failed. Indeed, he seemed to have been born under a star which insured him success. Now that his noble friend was at the head of the national councils, he was persuaded the interests of the country, both at home and abroad, would be managed in such a way, as would again raise England to that proud preeminence from which she had declined during the last year. The noble earl opposite (Grey), than whom no man stood higher in the public opinion on account of his rare consistency and noble disinterestedness, particularly during the events of the last year, had said, that a want of confidence in the person at the head of government was a fair ground of opposition to his administration. He would take the proposition in its converse sense, and say, that his unbounded confidence in the
29The Marquis of Londonderry
3130 said, that the noble marquis had been pleased to speak of him in a very kind and much too flattering manner. He rose now merely for the purpose of stating distinctly, what he had said on a former occasion, to which the noble marquis had alluded, and which did not bear the interpretation that the noble marquis had put upon it. The noble marquis had stated, that he (earl Grey) had said, that a want of confidence in the head of the administration was a just ground of opposition to the administration. Now, he did not recollect that he had given expression to such a sentiment. He did undoubtedly say, that a want of confidence in the head of the administration was a just, nay, the best ground for any man refusing his accession to it. He had said, further, that a want of confidence, not in the head only of an administration—for it was not a personal objection that had actuated him in his conduct last year, it was an objection to the general principle on which the administration was composed—but a want of confidence in an administration generally, was an effectual bar to a pledge of general support. That was the situation in which he found himself placed last year. He did not see in the composition of the cabinet such an assurance for the prosecution of measures and principles which he considered essential to the good government and prosperity of the country, as would induce him to give it his general support; and on those grounds he withheld his support, although some members of that administration were persons entitled, in the fullest extent, to his confidence. At the same time, however,
3130Earl Grey
32 said, that the noble earl had rightly understood him. What he had stated was, that a bill would
32The Duke of Wellington
 begged to ask the noble duke at the head of the government, whether he retained the office of commander-in-chief of the forces?Earl Ferrers
 replied, that when he received his majesty's commands to form an Administration, he felt great reluctance to place himself at the head of it. Finding, however, that it was the unanimous opinion of his colleagues, that he ought to occupy that situation, and finding also that, under the circumstances, it was not easy to find a person to fill the office which he now had the honour to hold, he determined to resign the office of commander in chief.The Duke of Wellington
3433 said, he did not rise with the intention of offering the slightest objection to the Address, which it was his ardent wish to see unanimously carried; but, after what had been stated in the course of the discussion, having recently been honoured with an office in a situation in his majesty's government, he felt himself called upon to declare, that there was no one act of that government, but more especially no one of its acts connected with the transactions which had been the subject of that night's conversation, that he would not consider himself bound to defend. He could assure his noble friend at the head of the foreign department, who immediately represented the person at the head of that department before him; whose dying instructions he received; and whose intentions he was expected to fulfil; that whenever he should be called upon to defend the whole of that system of which he was the representative, from whatever side of the House the attack might proceed, he would find in him a sincere and zealous, though perhaps a useless, supporter. He felt confident, that even though his noble friend should not be able to do so, he himself could satisfy the House of the sound principles on which the negotiations had proceeded. He could also satisfy the House and the country, that no danger of war had been unnecessarily incurred by his majesty's ministers. He was not only
3433The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, that, having been a member of the government under which the noble duke had been instructed to sign the protocol at St. Petersburgh, and having also been a party to the treaty of London, he felt it due to his own character to say that he subscribed entirely to all that had fallen from his noble friend who had spoken last. Whenever the time should arrive for discussing the course of policy in which he had had a share, he should be prepared to express his sentiments with the same fearlessness with which he now addressed their lordships; and he concurred with his noble friend in believing, that it would not be difficult to prove, that there was nothing in that policy, or in the particular transaction growing out of it, inconsistent with the honour of the country or its best interests. He entirely concurred in all that had been, said respecting the conduct of sir Edward Codrington. In his opinion he had exercised a sound discretion. He was placed in circumstances of no ordinary difficulty, and he had discharged his duty with consummate skill and courage. He was prepared to support the gallant admiral, not only on the principle that it was the duty of a government to support those who executed their orders, but from a deliberate conviction that he was justified, under the circumstances, in the course which he had taken, and that in taking that course he had neither tarnished his own previously acquired fame, nor sullied the honour and glory of his country.Lord Goderich
35 said, that his noble friend at the head of the government had stated, that the foreign policy which had been
35Earl Dudley
 stated, that he had a complaint to make to their lordships of a breach of their privileges, which had been committed by the arrest, by a sheriff's officer, of lord Hawarden, an Irish peer. He would therefore move, that lord Hawarden be called in, that he might state the circumstances to their lordships. —Ordered.The Lord Chancellor
 asked the noble duke at the head of the government, whether it was intended, during the session, to introduce a bill for the repeal of the existing-penal laws affecting the Roman Catholics?Lord Clifden
 answered, that government had no intention of bringing forward any such measure.The Duke of Wellington
94 said, he wished to offer a few words on the subject connected with the Roman Catholics of Ireland. As a friend to them and to their cause, it was impossible for him to see without anxiety the public journals teeming with such monstrous resolutions as those which had been submitted to an assembly of persons calling themselves the meeting of the Roman Catholics of Ireland. Their lordships would recollect, that a bill had been passed to put down such associations. Notwithstanding that bill, these associations continued to exist, and a resolution had been laid before them of so extraordinary a nature, that it was impossible for him not to allude to it; for if that resolution was actually the resolution of the Roman Catholics of Ireland, he, as one of their sincerest friends, would declare, that instead of making him hope that their cause would advance, it would give him reason to wish that it might not. Precisely the same sentiment he had expressed two years ago. He had then said, that if he thought the Catholics of Ireland would, by intimidation or threat, endeavour to carry their object, he would be the first to oppose them. The resolution to which he had alluded was as follows:—"Resolved; that we feel it a duty we owe to the Irish people to declare, that we shall consider every Irish member of parliament an enemy to the freedom, peace, and happiness, of Ireland, who shall support, either directly or indirectly, any administration of which the duke of Wellington, or any individual professing his principles, is the head or contriver; and we call on all counties, cities, towns, and parishes in Ireland, to act upon the spirit of this resolution." Now, he must look upon this resolution as a complete threat; but he believed that the Catholics of Ireland would not approve of it. He was sure that a better spirit prevailed amongst them. If such proceedings, however, were suffered to continue, they would be
94The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, that he rose for the purpose of giving notice of a motion. The papers which his noble friend the Secretary for Foreign Affairs, had brought down the other day, were highly satisfactory as showing a disposition, on the part of his majesty's government, to give every information on the subject to which the papers referred. They nevertheless, appeared to him to be incomplete. He therefore gave notice, that, he intended to move for the production of certain papers on Monday next. His motion would comprise two objects: first, to ascertain the state of the relations between this country and the Ottoman Porte; and next, the nature of the instructions given to the admiral commanding the combined fleet in the Mediterranean.Lord Holland
 said, that no man was less disposed than he was to countenance such proceedings, but still he thought that some allowance ought to be made for the use of intemperate language. He agreed, that many things which had been said by members of the Catholic association had displeased the friends of their cause; but their lordships ought not to look at a great public question under feelings excited by the intemperate harangues of this man or of that. The king of the Netherlands had entered into an arrangement with the Pope, respecting his Catholic subjects. Why could not we do the same? It was not to be wondered at, if intemperate language should break forth from a people whose hopes had been deferred for seven and twenty years. It was not in human nature to put up with such injustice.Lord Clifden
270269cestui-que-trustcestui-que-trust268267266265264263262261 said, it was with great regret that he stated to their lordships that his noble friend (lord Holland) who had given notice of a motion for today was, through indisposition, unable to attend. His noble friend had four motions ready, which he had intended to move that day. All those motions were more or less connected with the question of our relations with Turkey, and the measures taken by the government of this country relative to the affairs of Greece. Two of those motions were such only as tended to illustrate the views of his noble friend respecting the nature of our relations with Turkey. Those questions it was not his intention to touch upon, leaving to his noble friend, on his recovery, to use his own discretion in bringing them forward. The other two which he intended to submit to their lordships, were merely motions for additional papers, to enable their lordships to make a fair estimate of the policy of this country; which he was convinced it was impossible for their lordships to do, relying solely on the papers which had been laid before them. Another object of these motions—no less important than the former—was to obtain additional information, that we might pay the debt which was due to our gallant officers engaged in the battle of Navarin: for although the country was fairly, fully, and perfectly satisfied with their meritorious conduct, from reading the newspapers and the gazette, which communicated the intelligence of that battle, yet their lordships were far from possessing that information which would enable them to know what were the instructions given to the commanders of the combined fleet, or whether those instructions were well or ill carried into execution. He was sure that every noble lord would agree with him when he stated, that there was no object which Englishmen had more at heart, than to give to every gallant officer—and in this instance the officer was one of the best and bravest in the service—the opportunity of clearing up any insinuations which might have been thrown out against his character, and of removing any surmise, that his conduct was not as satisfactory to the existing government as it was to the late administration, to the country at large, and to his Sovereign, who had
270269cestui-que-trustcestui-que-trust268267266265264263262261The Earl of Carnarvon
272271 said, he feared he should disappointment the expectation of his noble friend, when he stated that it was not his intention to follow him through the various topics upon which he had dilated, and through which he had presumed, somewhat too hastily, that it was his duty to follow him. What he had to say would relate chiefly to the demand for the papers which his noble friend had called for. His noble friend had urged, as a principal reason for their production, that they were necessary to the vindication of the gallant admiral who commanded at Navarin and the officers who served under him. His answer to that was, that the character that was not attacked required no defence. Admiral Codrington, so far from having his conduct attacked by his majesty's government, had received distinguished rewards at their hands. He therefore stood in no need of vindication from them. If his conduct had been criticised by those who had no just grounds for judging of it, that was not a reason why his majesty's ministers should make out a defence for him, by the production of papers, which, for grave political reasons, it was inexpedient to produce. Besides, even if there were no objection to the production of these papers, others would be required in illustration of them; for they could only be
272271Earl Dudley
283282281280279278277276275274273 said—If, my lords, I feel myself compelled to offer myself to your lordships' notice at this early period of the debate, I have to offer as an apology that the noble earl who has introduced the
283282281280279278277276275274273Lord Goderich
 said, in explanation, that the noble viscount seemed to think that he had insinuated something like duplicity against him. If a single word had escaped him which could bear such a construction, nothing could be further from his intention. If there was any man whose character was peculiarly above such a suspicion, that man was the noble viscount.The Earl of Carnarvon
290any subject,whollyyour"There is but one other point in your grace's speech which appears to call for any observation from me. Your grace emphatically says, that any subject,whollyyour289288 said:—My lords, it is with great diffidence that I intrude upon the time and attention of this House; but, notwithstanding what has fallen from the noble earl on the cross-bench upon the subject of explanations, I cannot refrain from seeking to obtain a
290any subject,whollyyour"There is but one other point in your grace's speech which appears to call for any observation from me. Your grace emphatically says, that any subject,whollyyour289288The Marquis of Clanricarde
293292291 said, that in answer to the observations of the noble marquis, he rose to state the two reasons which had formed the grounds of his recent conduct. And first he would allude to those peculiar and personal circumstances which, it was said, ought to have influenced his conduct as an individual; and then to those public and political principles which ought to have influenced his conduct as a minister. On both these heads he should offer a few words. And, first, as to the peculiar grounds arising out of personal attachment, which ought, in the judgment of that noble marquis, to have prevented him from taking office under the present administration. It was stated, that there were certain persons in the present government, who, soon after the formation of the late cabinet, had used angry expressions towards some of the members of that cabinet, and particularly towards its illustrious head; and it was therefore said, that as he had been a member of that cabinet, and had acted under its leader, he ought to have declined taking a situation in the present administration. Now, he would ask their lordships, whether they would sanction the doctrine, that the use of such expressions ought never to be forgotten,—whether they would admit such a plea as the sacred duty of immortalizing hatred, and of sacrificing public grounds of action to the claims of private friendship,—whether, looking back at the history of the country, and of the most distinguished characters who had conducted its councils, they would tell the world that, in point of prudence, of duty, and of private feeling, public men were bound to cherish for ever the sentiments of political opposition which they had once had the misfortune to entertain against, each other? He would remind their lordships, that the life of his lamented friend afforded a strong proof in illustration of his opinion upon this particular point. Were there ever feelings of greater bitterness;—feelings which displayed themselves not merely in the shape of personal ill will, but of direct quarrel
293292291Earl Dudley
302301300299298297296295294 said, that although he had sufficient motives in what had already passed that evening before their lordships to determine him upon undergoing the painful task of asking their lordships' attention to circumstances purely personal to himself, still he deemed it most respectful to the House, to the importance of the question which had been moved by his noble friend, and to the great political considerations with which that question was connected, to ask the attention of their lordships on that evening to a short detail of facts, which it would have been his bounden duty, at some time or other, to submit to their lordships. He should do this the more willingly, because, though he was under the necessity of adverting to several considerations personal to himself, he should certainly take no part in those views of a personal nature, which had been lately brought forward by the noble earl at the head of the foreign department, and by the noble marquis who preceded him, respecting the circumstances which had led the noble earl to leave that government of which he and the noble earl formed a part, and to join that of which the noble earl now was a constituent member.302301300299298297296295294The Marquis of Lansdowne
304303 said, that whenever his majesty's ministers feel themselves at liberty to lay upon the table of the House all the papers, from which alone a full knowledge of all the circumstances which had taken place could be derived, he should be as ready as the noble marquis himself to express his opinion upon them to the House. He would assure him, that whatever his opinion might have been, previous to his joining the present administration, on the subject alluded to, it had remained unaltered, and no man had presumed to question him on the subject. The noble marquis had considered it as a proof of inconsistency on his part, that he (lord E.) who had disapproved of the expedition to Portugal should have now approved of the expressions made use of in his majesty's Speech. That expedition was sent out to Portugal in fulfilment of our treaty, and its object was to preserve the peace of Portugal; but, admitting that he had disapproved of that expedition, surely there was no reason why he should be dissatisfied with the announcement in his majesty's Speech of the probability of the troops being soon withdrawn. The noble marquis, however, was wrong both in his facts and his reasonings. He had never disapproved of the expedition to Portugal. How could he disapprove of the honourable performance of a treaty? But he did disapprove of calling that expedition "a master stroke of policy," because that could not have been a master stroke of policy, in which there was no choice left, and which executed only the conditions of a treaty. If, however, he had disapproved of the expedition, how much more warmly must he approve of that part of his majesty's Speech in which it was announced that that expedition was at an end? Then as to the foreign policy of Mr. Canning; he had been asked, how he would act on that policy with his present colleagues? But the fact was, that he had never heard any man attempt to, explain what the principles of Mr. Canning's foreign policy were, as contradistinguished from those of his predecessor. He very well remembered that
304303Lord Ellenborough
 said, he wished to put a question to the noble duke opposite, with respect to a subject of the greatest importance. He need scarcely add, that he alluded to the State of Ireland. Notwithstanding what had passed on a former occasion, when a question had been put to the noble duke, to know whether it was in the contemplation of ministers to realize a report which had been spread abroad, that though his majesty's government were averse to granting the whole of what the Roman Catholics asked for, it was intended to grant some part,—notwithstanding that the noble duke had answered, that his majesty's government had no intention of adopting any such measure, still he could not suppose but that the noble duke must be convinced, that Ireland was in a very unsatisfactory and alarming state. He, therefore, wished to know if it was the intention of ministers to bring forward any proposition relating to that country? Though he was persuaded, that nothing effectual could be done without granting concessions to the Catholics, still he hoped that something might be done to alleviate the unfortunate condition of Ireland. If the noble duke should state, that there was no intention on the part of the government to bring forward any measure, he should then feel it his duty, in pursuance of the notice which he had given last session, to move for a committee to inquire into the state of the population of Ireland, to see what measures can be adopted for its amelioration.The Earl of Darnley
 said, that after what had been said, he would not press his motion.—It was accordingly withdrawn.The Earl of Carnarvon
305 said, the noble baron had stated, that he considered Mr. Canning to have been a dangerous minister, but that he would support a government founded upon his principles. Now, must not the noble lord himself be a dangerous minister, if he acted upon such principles? They had been publicly told, that the reason why the friends of Mr. Canning had joined the present government was, that they had received a pledge that the policy of the last government would be followed in every respect. It was not enough to tell the country, that the treaty of the 6th of July was to be carried into execution. He would appeal to the House, whether Mr. Canning was not at the head of a party acting upon more liberal principles than any other; and admiring, as he did, Mr. Canning, he could not believe that the policy of the present administration was, to follow the footsteps of Mr. Canning. They were told that his commercial policy was to be followed; that the corn bill introduced last session was to be reconsidered; but where did the noble Secretary of State look for support for that measure? Did he not see sitting by his side those who defeated that bill? He was convinced that these pledges were not worth a farthing. He should wait to see what the measures of the present government would be before he would give it his support. He hoped that they would be such as he could approve of; but, as to their being conducted upon the principles of Mr. Canning's policy, that was a
305Lord Wharncliffe
285284 said, that after the explanation which had been given by the noble Secretary of State, he did not rise for the purpose of entering upon the question to which the motion immediately referred. Although, on the one hand, he could not undertake to recommend to ministers the adoption of the noble earl's motion, on the other hand, he could not sit in his place, and hear it said, by any authority in that House, that the measures of the government with which he had been connected—he meant at the time when the protocol was signed by the noble duke now his majesty's prime minister—were to be looked upon in the same point of view, as regarded the law of nations, as the treaty of July 1827. He would not follow the noble mover in the discussion of the policy of the measures of the protocol, and of the treaty. Nothing, he was sure, could be more repugnant to itself, than that the noble earl should set out by telling their lordships that the production of the papers was indispensable to the discussion of these measures, and that he should afterwards launch out into an ample examination of the propriety of those measures, which he had before said could not be properly discussed in the absence of information. He would, however, trouble
285284The Earl of Eldon
287286 said, he did not rise to discuss the principles of the protocol, or of the treaty of July. The time would come when it would be open to their lordships to discuss the policy of those measures fully, and it would be his duty to meet that discussion. It was his firm intention to carry into full and ample execution, according to its spirit, and letter, the treaty to which his majesty was a party. It was his duty to carry that treaty into effect with good faith; and it did not become him to cast any imputation upon it, in the way of comparison with the original measure—the protocol of St. Petersburgh. It was true that the protocol did not carry with it the measures of execution which were attached to the treaty; but it should be recollected, that such measures were under consideration at the time of the protocol, and that they must at some future time be taken into consideration. Although those measures of execution were not the same as were attached to the treaty—although they were not coercive—they were yet such as were calculated to induce the Porte to accept of the proffered mediation. It was not his intention to go into a minute discussion on this subject at the present moment. He would assure the noble mover, that it was his decided intention to carry that treaty into effect, in its spirit as well as in its letter. But he could not help dissenting from a great portion of the speech of the noble lord. He did not admit that it was the right of one country to interfere with the internal regulation of another in all cases. No doubt the political position of countries, in some instances, might justify such interference; but such was not the general rule. Non-interference was the rule: interference the exception. That was the only true and safe policy. He did not mean to say that the interference in the present case was not necessary. He himself had been the means of negotiating the act of interference; but that was an exception to the conduct of this country when her interference had been solicited on the occasion of insurrections in other nations. So far he stated in corroboration of what had been said by his noble friend (lord Dudley) on the subject of the motion. With regard to the instructions, there was no doubt that they were intended
287286The Duke of Wellington
 said, he felt as much anxiety with regard to the situation of Ireland, as any noble lord present; but he had no intention of bringing forward any measure of the description alluded to by the noble earl. There would be measures brought forward in the course of the session, in the other House; but the measures contemplated by his friends and colleagues were not those which the noble earl had in contemplation.The Duke of Wellington
351 rose to move the second reading of the Sale-of-Game bill. He should not have thought it necessary to say another word, had he not understood that it was the intention of his noble friend to move as an amendment, that a committee might be appointed to take into consideration
351The Marquis of Salisbury
 said, he had opposed the bill brought in by the noble baron last session, because that bill had for its object not merely the prevention and diminution of crime by making game saleable, but the further object of giving new rights to every owner of a field or garden—rights which he had never purchased or inherited, and prejudicial to their habits of industry and usual occupations. With respect to a Committee of Inquiry, he thought no good could result from such a course as the subject had been repeatedly discussed by parliament. As to the present bill, he saw no reason to change his opinion since last session. He could not think that the making of game saleable would prevent or diminish crime. To him it appeared, that the opening of a market for game held out more temptation to poachers, and made detection more difficult. But, as it was believed by many persons, that the making game saleable would prevent or materially diminish the crime of poaching, the present bill, perhaps, would be the safest way to put that argument to the test of experiment. He should not, therefore, oppose the second reading.The Earl of Falmouth
s.d.d.357356l. thought if a Committee of Inquiry was appointed, its first measure would be, to put an end to the prohibition of the sale of game. He had never heard any alteration in the Game-laws proposed, which did not contain the principle of the sale of game. The only objection to the present bill was, that though it gave the right to sell game, it did not give it so extensively as the noble lord near him wished. But that noble lord was wrong in stating, that the bill would only give that right to great land-owners. It went much-further. It gave the right of selling game to any man possessing land to the amount of 100s.d.d.357356l.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he should vote with great pleasure for the second reading of the bill.Lord Teynham
358 was of
358The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he had declared, many years ago, his opinion in favour of a bill upon the principle of that now offered for a second reading, on the ground, that the law, as it stood, was perpetually violated. He therefore should support the motion without deciding whether the measure might not need modification in the committee. After all that had been so ably stated—he was satisfied that justice could not be done without a thorough investigation. That the Game-laws were absurd and anomalous, and ought to be revised, no man would deny. In reference to the state of the peasantry of England, and to the operation which a repeal of the Game-laws might have in producing non-residence, he wished to call the attention of their lordships to the almost hopeless condition of the people of Ireland. Whoever had looked into the subject must know, that the increased facility of communication between the two countries, and the deplorable want of employment in Ireland, had induced a number of Irish labourers to visit this country, and the evil was every year augmented.Earl Darnley
 said, it was the object of his bill to put down the warfare that was going on in the country between the poachers and gamekeepers, who were as regularly opposed to each other as any two factions in times of civil war. This state of things was, no doubt, partly owing to the total want of employment among the lower orders. It was his intention to propose a bill which would give the overseers of parishes who might choose to adopt the plan which he should have to propose, the means of affording employment to the poor.The Marquis of Salisbury
 perfectly agreed with lord Wharncliffe as to the expediency of a complete alteration in the Game-laws. Game was not preserved by law, but by armed force. On this subject, he was a great reformer. He would repeal the whole of those laws, and substitute a summary act in their stead.The Duke of Richmond
 presented a petition from the Catholics of two parishes in Wexford, praying for relief from the existing disabilities. The petitioners complained of the gross breach of the Treaty of Limerick; and he would say that there could not be found a treaty under which the one country gained move, or which had been more unjustly violated by the other. If ever there was a clear and explicit treaty it was that; it ever there was a treaty most shamefully violated it was that. An hon. member of the other House had given notice of motion on the subject; and it was his intention to do the same on an early occasion. In his opinion the day must soon arrive when all tests with regard to religion would be abolished; for never could any thing be more unwise. He hoped that the Dissenters would be successful in their appeal to the other House; but if they were not, then they would unite with the Catholics, and their lordships would have to sing in a very different key.Lord Clifden
 said, he should be glad to support the proposition of the noble lord, if he thought it would prevent the civil war which was going on between the poachers and gamekeepers. It was worth their lordships attention to try to prevent such a state of things.Lord Clifden
355354353l.352 thought that the bill so far from advancing, would retard any improvement in the Game-laws. He was sure that a bill for the mere purpose of allowing the sale of game—leaving the other evils of the system untouched—was, as a first measure, the worst that could be adopted. For six years he had been endeavouring to bring about an alteration in the Game-laws, without success. Three years he had tried to effect his object in the House of Commons, and at the end
355354353l.352Lord Wharncliffe
563, on presenting a Petition from the Roman Catholics of Londonderry, praying for the repeal of the Laws against them, said, he had heard,
563The Marquis of Londonderry
565564 rose, and said:—It is with great pain, I can assure your lordships, I feel myself under the necessity of again calling your lordships' attention to a personal subject, with reference to the topic on which I addressed your lordships in the course of last week. In what I then threw out, I was anxious not to say any thing that might offend the feelings, or affect the character, of any individual. My object was to justify my own conduct and not to complain of, or to make out a case against, others. I had no wish to reflect on any individuals, or say any thing but to state the whole truth, the plain truth, and nothing but the truth. How, my lords, could I state, for I had no motives to state, what was not absolutely necessary to make your lordships acquainted with the truth? If the observations to which I allude had only re-
565564Lord Goderich
568567566 said, he thought it his duty, having been connected with the
568567566The Earl of Carlisle
571570569à, priori, said, that reference having been made, by his noble friend who had just sat down, to the principles and ministry of the great statesman whose loss was so generally lamented, he was desirous of offering a few observations to the House. He was the more anxious to do so, as he was in that House certainly the first adherent of that right hon. gentleman; and further, because it had appeared, from a former debate, that some difference of opinion existed amongst those who had been connected with Mr. Canning, as to the line of conduct which it was, under existing circumstances, most accordant with their honour and consistency to adopt. Various theories had, at different times, been maintained, as to the support which those selected by the Crown to conduct its affairs were, upon general grounds, entitled to claim from their lordships, and the other branch of the legislature. Some appeared to think, that the measures of the executive government ought to be received with confidence, whilst others contended that watchfulness and distrust should mark the conduct of Parliament. Without entering into such disquisitions, he felt confident that he expressed the general sentiment of the country when he said, that at no time were the wants of a fixed and settled government more urgent—at no time were the dangers and inconveniences likely to arise from further changes more imminent.571570569à, priori,The Earl of Morley
639638637 said, he was sorry again to intrude upon their lordships' attention, but as there was no public business immediately about to come under the consideration of the House, he trusted he might be allowed to say a few words with respect to a contradiction, or a partial contradiction, which had been given, in another place, to what he had stated to their lordships on a former occasion. He had then stated, that a declaration had been made by a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson), whom he conceived to be a particular friend of his lamented relation; and he had asked the noble earl opposite (Dudley), whether he had not heard that declaration, and whether he did not concur in it, and know to whom it referred. The right hon. gentleman had, however, stated at Liverpool, that, as to personal enemies of Mr. Canning, he knew of none. In comparing that statement with the declaration which he had made to their lordships, he had no wish to make it a matter of charge against the right hon. gentleman he alluded to, that he had departed from that declaration: he only asked for an explanation of the obvious contrast which those two statements presented; and he believed he had not been clearly understood by the noble earl opposite, who did not reply to his question, otherwise than by eloquently descanting upon the virtues of forgiveness, and alluding to the conduct of his lamented father-in-law, under circumstances which he could never allow to be similar, in any point, to those in which the right hon. Secretary of State for the Colonies and the noble earl were intermixed. As, however, he had put his questions only a short time previous to the adjournment of the House, when several noble lords were leaving their places, and when the noise which was made rendered the conversation
639638637The Marquis of Clanricarde
640 confessed himself under great difficulty in entering at all into the consideration of the question—if any question had been put at all—which the noble lord, for the second time, had thought fit to bring before their lordships, giving no other notice to any individual whom the question might concern, than such as might be collected from clubs and newspapers. It appeared to him, that the subject which had been brought under their lordships' attention was not of a nature to be discussed in parliament. Parliament ought to judge of public men on public grounds and public declarations; but it was not the province of parliament to inquire whether particular individuals, who had been the friends of Mr. Canning, had conducted themselves with proper delicacy, in accepting places or continuing in office with those persons, between whom and that individual any unfriendly feeling had grown up. The noble lord had stated that he had put a question on a former evening, relative to a declaration which had been made by his right hon. friend, a member of the other House of Parliament, the Secretary of State for the Colonies. The noble lord did ask a question, as to that declaration, and as to his joining in office with those persons who had express-
640Earl Dudley
 observed, that it was necessary for him to show that the statement which he had formerly made upon this subject was accurate. This was all he intended to do. His proposition was a very fair one. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson) made a certain declaration respecting the enemies of Mr. Canning; and at Liverpool he had said, that "of personal enemies to Mr. Canning he knew of none." Now, was this correct? It was not, as the noble lord appeared to think, a declaration made only to persons with whom he was connected; nor was it because the declaration had been made there that he adverted to it. The right hon. gentleman had been reported, in the public papers, to have used certain expressions at Liverpool. Now, if he did use those expressions at Liverpool, he used in parliament—he was going to say, different ones, but he would not say "different," because his question had not yet been answered—to whom did the right hon. gentleman make the declaration to which he referred? He must again observe, that his veracity had been impeached; that an imputation had been cast upon him; and it was necessary for him to show that there was no ground for it.The Marquisof Clanricarde
 said, he agreed in every syllable that had fallen from lord Seaford, and could not let that opportunity pass without declaring himself satisfied with the conduct of Mr. Canning's friends.Lord Melross
648647646645644643642 rose and said:—My lords; it is impossible for me, without feelings of the most painful nature, to enter into the discussion of a subject, which involves a question of the sacred performance of the duty of friendship, to a friend who is now no more; a friend, whose friendship was the pride and delight of my life, from our earliest youth, till the disastrous moment when he was snatched away—though in the fulness of fame and honour, yet most prematurely for the happiness of his friends, and the good of his country. Those feelings are so painful as only to be overcome by a paramount sense of duty; and they have been rendered still more distressing, by the course pursued by my noble friend (lord Clanricarde). The near connection in which he stood to Mr. Canning, and by which he is still united to those who were most dear to him, renders it most painful to me to express a difference of opinion from him upon points in which we have both so deep an interest, and the reluctance which I felt to do any thing which might have the appearance of unnecessarily entering into a conflict with him sealed my lips on a former occasion, and prevented my taking a part in that de-
648647646645644643642Lord Seaford
649 said, he did not rise with the intention of entering at any length into this discussion, which, in his opinion, was entirely uncalled-for, and might as well have been left alone; or of making any profession of principles, because he thought that unnecessary, and because he hoped, after what had fallen from the noble lord, that he would support the principles on which he (the duke) should act. But he rose to protest against any such imputations being cast upon him, as that he had entertained any personal hostility to Mr. Canning. On a former occasion, he had stated distinctly to their lordships, why he did not think proper to remain in the government of which Mr. Canning was the head. The communications that had passed between him and Mr. Canning had, unfortunately, he must be allowed to say, been made public; and he defied any man to point out any thing like personal feeling in those communications. It was true, that, when he found it necessary to withdraw from the government, he had also thought it his duty to lay down the military office which he held; but he begged leave to call their lordships' recollection to the explanation which he had given at that time, and to his subsequent conduct. After he had left the government, he had always met Mr. Canning in the way in which he had been accustomed to meet
649The Duke of Wellington
 said, that the learned lord had stated, that the question was totally a political one, yet he seemed very ready to derive all the religious aid he possibly could. The noble lord said, that Charles 2nd was not the maker of these Tests. If Charles was not a maker of Tests, at any rate he was a great taker of them. Charles 2nd, first of all, qualified himself for the crown of Scotland by signing the Covenant. After that, he came to England, and qualified himself for the crown of this country, according to all the ceremonies of the established church, and when on his death-bed, he qualified himself for dying as a true Catholic, by receiving extreme unction. That showed the value of Tests. He did not think that all the learned lord's ingenuity could make out that the church derived any security from the Test laws against bad men. Against good men there was no need for security, and against bad men there was no security in consequence of these laws.Lord King
 thought it was the obvious meaning of the oaths alluded to, that they should be taken in a proper manner, instead of which they were made a passport to office. He could scarcely conceive any thing more injurious to the character of the Church of England, than to say that its security mainly depended on acts like those. He thought the continuance of these laws as little consistent with the interests of the Church of England as they were creditable to parliament.Lord Calthorpe
He wipes and scours the silver cup in vain."And, though a Bishop toil to cleanse the stain,Of all that grave apologists may write;A blot that will be still a blot, in spiteBy an oath dipp'd in sacramental blood?That infidels may prove their title goodAn office-key, a picklock to a place,And made the symbols of atoning graceThe Saviour's feast, his own blest bread and wine,"Hast thou by statute shov'd from its designl.l.924 said, he held in his hand a petition from the Catholics of Liverpool; not, however, praying for any thing for themselves, but for the repeal of those laws that injured and insulted the Protestant Dissenters. A noble friend had presented last week, a petition to the same purport from Ireland, and another to the same effect had been presented to the House of Commons, signed by seven thousand Catholics of England, among whom were the first duke and the first earl in the kingdom, five other peers and several baronets. The petition he had now to present was signed by two thousand persons, and the seven first names of those in it were those of Catholic clergymen. He troubled their lordships with this prologue, because it was the fashion to say that the Catholics were enemies to civil and religious liberty. The petitions which had lately been presented from that body were a sufficient answer to that most unjust accusation. The Catholics were now petitioning, not for themselves, but in favour of that class of persons who were thought to be hostile
He wipes and scours the silver cup in vain."And, though a Bishop toil to cleanse the stain,Of all that grave apologists may write;A blot that will be still a blot, in spiteBy an oath dipp'd in sacramental blood?That infidels may prove their title goodAn office-key, a picklock to a place,And made the symbols of atoning graceThe Saviour's feast, his own blest bread and wine,"Hast thou by statute shov'd from its designl.l.924Lord Clifden
925 thought the noble lord opposite had made a few mistakes. In the first place, Charles 2nd would have been very glad not to have passed one of those laws of which the noble lord complained; and with respect to a person qualifying himself for office, against his conscience, the fault did not lie in the law, but in the person so doing. The principle upon which those laws were made was, that property could not be safe in any country, unless those in power were interested in its support. In like manner the established church could not be safe, unless those in power were interested in its support. In this country when was that church in danger? It was at that time when the power and the army had got into the hands of those who were hostile to the church. How was it that
925Lord Redesdale
10511050 said, he wished to ask a noble lord a question, which was connected with those observations which he had ventured to make to their lordships on a former evening, relative to the Roman Catholic Association. Before he asked, however, an explanation upon that point, he could not help, when he observed, in the reported proceedings of that Association, that a letter had been read from a noble lord (Duncannon), a member of the other House of Parliament, making a few observations with respect to the conduct of that noble lord. If that Association was bad in itself, it became infinitely worse when it was made a channel of communication to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, and when those political spirits, whom he could call no better than demagogues, made use of the authority with which they were thus clothed. The letter was too long to trouble their lordships by reading the whole, but he had selected one paragraph from it. The letter stated, "for lord Lansdowne, Mr. Tierney, and lord Carlisle, I am prepared to assure you now, as I did on a former occasion, that they and their friends were most anxious the question should be brought on, and that it would have had, as it always has had, all the support that as individuals they could have given to it. For this opinion, I can have no objection, now or at any other time, to have my name used. On the formation of the late government, I thought it my duty, as an Irishman, to give such advice to my Catholic countrymen as I thought most to their interest to pursue. I thought the agitation of that question, at that time, proposed, as it was attempted to be done, by the bitterest opponents of the Catholics, would have embarrassed the formation of the government, and I recommended a postponement of
10511050The Marquis of Londonderry
1054 said, he should not have thought it necessary to take a part in the conversation, which had arisen in consequence of the observations of the noble marquis opposite, had not the noble marquis introduced his name in reading a copy of a letter which he had then heard for the first time. After hearing that letter read, and after the observations made by the noble marquis, it became necessary for him to state, that he never authorized any communication to be made, directly or indirectly, to the Catholic Association. He would go further and say, that he never had, and never would. He thought it due to his noble friend whose name appeared at the end of that letter, to say, that he had repeatedly stated to his noble and honourable friends that he thought himself called upon, in consequence of it having been proclaimed in Ireland," that he had endeavoured to induce the Catholics not to petition parliament in the present session, to declare that he had not, either directly or indirectly, made such endeavours or given such advice. He never had thought himself called upon to communicate with the Catholics, through their Association, or any other medium, as to the time at which he might think proper to bring forward their claims for the consideration of parliament.
1054The Marquis of Lansdowne
1055 expressed his earnest hope that some measure would immediately be adopted for suppressing
1055The Earl of Roden
1053sine qua non1052 hoped, after the speech of the noble marquis, he might be allowed to say a few words. If the noble marquis had not put a question to him he should, nevertheless, have stated, that he never had authorized the gentleman who had been mentioned by the noble marquis, to make the declaration which he had just heard read. He understood that the proceedings of the meeting had been ill-reported. With respect to the Association, their lordships would recollect, that it was now thirty-five years since, under the shapes of convention, committee, or association, the Catholics had carried on their applications for relief from those laws which the wisest and ablest men in the country contended ought to be abrogated. In 1793, an act passed to put down the convention; and that act was so worded, that had it not been for a special exception in favour of the two Houses of the Irish parliament, they could not have continued to sit. In consequence of that act of parliament, the convention appeared in the shape of a committee, and during the government of the duke of Richmond there was a violent contest with that committee, and he forgot what was the end of it. Then arose the Association, and this state of things would continue until the two countries were identified. There was no choice for their lordships for putting down the Association, but by the strong arm of power, and even then it would rise up in some other shape, like the Carbonari in Italy. Their lordships could not muzzle, crush or strangle six million of people. He was, however, far from justifying the acts of the Association. In many cases he exceedingly lamented them. For the
1053sine qua non1052Lord Clifden
1137 said, he had a petition to present, which related to a subject of great interest. It came from a body of surgeons, but it could only be presented as the petition of their president, he having signed it in the name of the whole body. It conveyed to their lordships the opinion of the surgical profession, with respect to the state in which that profession were placed, from the total absence of means of procuring bodies for the purpose of dissection. The petitioners stated that, by the law as it now stood, the profession of surgery was placed under the direction of corporations, which required persons engaging in that profession to go through a course of studies, in which the dissection of bodies formed a necessary ingredient;—that it was subjected to considerable penalties for resorting to measures to procure the means of attending that course;—that teachers of anatomy were subject to personal penalties; and that surgeons who had, by no fault of their own, but through the impediments thrown in their way, been debarred from the means of studying, were liable to action and to payment of damages, in consequence of ignorance, resulting from the embarrassments under which they had laboured in procuring the means of prosecuting their studies. The petitioners stated, with respect to the necessity of dissecting the human subject, that scientific men were agreed that no ingenuity which could be exercised in making models, could supply the place of the advantages to be derived from the inspection of the human subject. The moderate degree in
1137The Marquis of Lansdowne
1166l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1165l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1164l.l.l.l.1163l.l.l.1162 said, it was with great satisfaction that he saw so large an assembly of reverend prelates, as he
1166l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1165l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1164l.l.l.l.1163l.l.l.1162Lord King
1168l.1167l.l. said, that the petition was incorrect in many particulars, and a spirit of misrepresentation pervaded it throughout. Hemustsay, that the great misfortune of the society was, that it had been chosen by the government to be the means of conveying aid to the clergy of the established church in America. It was in 1813, that the government had first given pecuniary assistance through the society. The noble lord might imagine that 701168l.1167l.l.The Bishop of London
 said, that the real question to consider was, whether the society did or did not mismanage the funds it received from the public. He would, on Friday next, move for a committee to inquire into the conduct of the society.Lord King
1170 said, that, from all he knew of the society, it had no reason whatever to shrink from any inquiry that might be instituted into its conduct. He should rather be the advocate for the inquiry proposed; but he thought the House, after what they had heard from the noble lord opposite, must be satisfied, that it would be dealing most unsparingly to refuse to judge of the real merits of the society, merely upon what had passed in that House. With respect to the proceedings of the society in North America, he was by no means sufficiently informed to speak in a satisfactory manner; but from what he did know of the general management of the funds by the society, he should be inclined to think that its resources were applied in North America usefully, beneficially, and with judgment. There were a hundred millions of individuals who had claims upon this country, and when this was considered, the House might form some idea of the immense field of labour on which the religious societies had entered. They were diffusing spiritual assistance to people who were living, not in the practice of harmless immoralities, but in habits of
1170Lord Calthorpe
1171 said, he rose to present a petition, numerously and respectably signed by the Protestant Dissenters and other inhabitants of Norwich, praying for a repeal of the Test and Corporation Acts. He had several other petitions of a similar description. It was not his intention, in presenting them, to anticipate any discussion which was likely to arise when the most important subject to which they related should be brought before their lordships. It had been his fate for twenty years to present similar petitions. His feelings on those occasions had not been different from what they were at the present moment with respect to the merits of the petitions, and the course which ought to be pursued. It had ever been his opinion, that the prayers of those petitions were founded upon justice, policy, and reason: it had always been his conviction, that the persons interested had claims upon the indulgence, and even upon the gratitude, of the government. Hitherto he had presented those petitions doubting of any great advantage in presenting them; but now, when he looked to the votes of the Commons of England, he did say that he presented the petition with a perfect feeling, that the time was not far off when this great measure would receive the sanction
1171Lord Holland
l.1169l. said, there was no ground for the imputations which had been cast upon the society. From every opportunity he had had of examining into its conduct, he could bear witness to its zeal, probity, and discretion. The service of North America constituted but a small part of its duties. The society held an extensive correspondence with all parts of the world, and the charge of 600l.1169l.Earl Bathurst
l.l.1221 seeing his noble friend the Secretary of State in his place, wished to solicit his attention to a matter of the utmost importance to the commercial interests of this country. He alluded to the fatal operation upon those interests, of that most absurd and mischievous warfare which had so long been permitted to subsist between the states of Buenos Ayres and Brazil. Some time ago his noble friend had given hopes to the merchants connected with the South American trade, that the influence of the British government would be used to put an end to the state of things under which the commerce of this country had so long suffered. He could not doubt of the zeal and earnestness with which that influence had been employed; but he feared that hitherto it had produced no effect in restoring peace, for at least one of the parties to that war continued to commit acts, in some instances of such atrocious barbarity against the persons of English merchants, as, he verily believed, were never equalled, unless by the deeds
l.l.1221Lord Strangford,
12231222 said, it was undoubtedly true, that war had been going on for a considerable time between Buenos Ayres and Brazil, which had been attended with great mischief to the commerce and navigation of his majesty's subjects. He could assure their lordships, however, that almost from the beginning of that war, and ever since he had the honour to hold office, no endeavour on our part had been omitted to produce peace, but on the contrary, efforts to obtain that object had been anxiously made with zeal and diligence, both by his majesty's ministers at home, and his envoys at Buenos Ayres and Rio. Hitherto, unfortunately, those efforts had been without effect, but he could assure their lordships, that he was fully justified in the hope which he held out on a former occasion of the approaching' reconciliation of the parties. Of course it was impossible for him to speak on a subject of this nature with complete certainty; but he could say, that that hope, which had never been entirely extinguished, had been strongly revived by the last accounts which had been received from South America. At the same time he wished to be understood as making that statement with that caution with which all such statements ought to be made. He hoped that in a short time peace would be concluded, and
12231222Earl Dudley
 thanked his noble friend for the communication; and though he would think him very ungracious, he must say, that on one of the powers his noble friend could not expect that his recommendations would have any effect. He happened to know, that many of the ministry of that power had become partners in these privateers; and they probably found them too lucrative to put an end to their occupation. They had an interest in keeping up the war. He hoped his noble friend would bear in mind, that of all the new States of South America, only one had been of any service to England. Looking at their acts, and the facts connected with them, from first to last, and seeing that they had swindled us out of twenty-two millions, he must say, that if they were our creation, we had no earthly reason to be proud of them.Lord Strangford
1241llll1240l123912381237 said, that before he proceeded to make the motion of which he had given notice, he begged leave to set right the character of the person from whom he had, on a former occasion, presented a petition. He had understood the right rev. prelate to object to the petitioner, that he was a man of so irritable a temper that it was impossible to agree with him, and that other persons had complained of him so much, that it was impossible the Society could continue to employ him as a missionary. Now, he held in his hand a copy of a memorial which had been sent to the Society in favour of Mr. Griffin: it was signed by fifty-four inhabitants of Bridgetown, where Mr. Griffin had formerly resided, and the first signature was that of a justice of the peace. It expressed the satisfaction of the memorialists with the conduct of Mr. Griffin, and requested that he might be appointed to officiate at a chapel, as the memorialists were fully persuaded that by so doing, the best interests of the church of England, and of religion and virtue would be promoted. It was dated in 1826. He believed there did exist, as was stated, bitter contentions in the colonies, and that they were aggravated by the proceedings of the Society. Nor was it at all unnatural, that it should be so; for a very great proportion of the people there were presbyterians, who had a strong feeling of dislike against the exercise of any kind of patronage in the appointment of clergymen, and who liked to appoint their own ministers. The people had very strong objections to the person who had succeeded Mr. Griffin, and not liking him, they had deserted the church. The Society had aggravated the natural causes for these contentions. He was sorry to give so much trouble to the pure body which he saw opposite; but he was sure their
1241llll1240l123912381237Lord King
12491248 said, it would be unnecessary for him, after what had fallen from his noble friend, to trouble their lordships with any extended reasonings upon the subject; but he must say that he thought
12491248Lord Goderich
1251llll1250 said, he would deny that he had evinced any disposition to shelter the Society from an inquiry into the distribution of its funds. He had never said any thing of the kind. He
1251llll1250The Bishop of London
 said, he had not given any guarantee for the good temper of Mr. Griffin; indeed, he could not have done any thing of the sort, for he had never seen him but once. All he had stated of the rev. gentleman's character was, that he possessed a certificate of the inhabitants of Bridgetown in his favour. The manner in which he had been treated by the House had not evinced the best possible temper on the part of their lordships. The course taken against him was not by any means unprecedented; for whenever a person appealed to the House for redress, or attacked a public body upon public principles, the course of the ministerial bench was, to use every exertion to blacken his character. But much less turned upon the character of the petitioner than the opposite side wished to believe. He (lord King) had said, that the rector of Halifax was an ecclesiastical commissary and a missionary, The noble earl replied, that this assertion was true, but that the rector got nothing from his parish, for his glebe yielded nothing, But this assertion was not correct; for although the rector got nothing from the glebe, he received between four and five hundred pounds a year from his pew rents and other parochial fees. The rectory was, in fact, a valuable church preferment. It was a decided misapplication of the funds of the Society, to bestow any additional gifts on a clergyman in possession of such preferment. The Society was instituted for far different objects; and its real friends would feel sorry if its funds were to be so applied. The right rev. prelate had said, that the Society did not decline the investigation; but the right rev. bishop bad declined it for them, and the result was the same. He begged to say, that he did not rest his motion upon the petition, but upon the ground of what had fallen from the right reverend prelate, that the money of the Society was wasted, by being bestowed upon persons already provided for.Lord King
lll12471246ex officio124512441243l1242llllllll said, he had formerly stated, that he conceived the allegations of the petition did not justify the appointment of a committee, and he had heard nothing, in what had fallen from the noble lord, to make him alter his opinion. The noble lord had not rested his case solely on the petition. The noble lord said, that the public money distributed by the Society was made over to the Society by the government, in order to provide for the members of the church of England. The noble lord objected to this country being charged with the expense of maintaining the clergy of the church of England in the colonies; and he seemed to think that this was a new principle, first introduced into practice in 1813, when he (lord Bathurst) was Secretary of State for the Colonies. But he must tell the noble lord, so far was this from being a new principle, that ever since 1702 grants have been uniformly made by the government to the Society, for the ministers of the church of England in the North American colonies. Within the last sixteen years those grants had been considerably increased. In 1811, 1812, and 1813, the grants had been 2,600lll12471246ex officio124512441243l1242llllllllEarl Bathurst
 said, he was extremely anxious to give their lordships and the public all the satisfaction that he could consistently with his duty, on that most important subject to which the noble lord had alluded; but he trusted the noble earl would be satisfied when he told him, for the present, that certain intentions had been announced on the part of Russia, which very much diminished the chance of maintaining the existing peace between Russia and the Porte. Government, however, had as yet received no accounts of those intentions having been carried into effect. That the hope of maintaining peace between Russia and the Porte had much diminished since his Majesty's communication was made to their lordships on the first day of the session, there was no doubt; but no account had yet been received of peace having been actually violated.The Earl of Dudley
1334, seeing the noble Secretary for Foreign Affairs in his place, would ask him a question on a subject of the greatest importance. He had hitherto abstained from saying one word on the present situation of affairs in the east of Europe, not because he did not feel the utmost anxiety with respect to the determination of ministers relative to the state of affairs in that quarter of the globe, and the possible results which might issue from that state of things, but because he had been fearful of adding, by any thing he might say, to the difficulties in which he was too sensible ministers were placed on that subject;—difficulties of such a nature, that one false step might risk our being involved in a general war; and he was not prepared to pronounce with any confidence, even now, that with the most cautious policy, we should be secured from that calamity. Under the influence of that feeling, he had hitherto abstained from saying one word on that important subject, wishing that ministers should be allowed time deliberately to examine the situation they were placed in. The same feeling would have induced him to pursue on the present occasion, the same conduct, if there had not been made very recently, under the highest authority, a statement, which, if correctly reported, could not be too speedily confirmed; but which, if otherwise, ought, in order to obviate the inconveniences which might follow, to be as speedily corrected. The statement he alluded to was to the following effect,—"That ministers had received no information of any change having taken place in the relations existing between Russia and the Ottoman Porte, or any declaration of war between those parties." That there had been no actual declaration of war, either communicated to his majesty's ministers, or in fact issued, he certainly believed; but he could easily understand, that short of a declaration of war there might be a change in the relations existing between two powers not less material than if war had actually taken place. If measures had been entered into—if treaties had been broken—if troops had been assembled and placed in hostile positions, from which they might act—and if a declaration had been made to ministers of a determination to act immediately
1334Earl Grey
 proposed, that the words in the different clauses, which went to give the "bodies of murderers and other criminals to be dissected," should be left out of the bill. His object in proposing to leave out these words was, to remove the stigma which now attached to dissection. He had had some correspondence with medical men on the subject, and they were of opinion, that the little assistance they derived from this source did not counterbalance the effects which the stigma of condemning criminals to dissection had in deterring people from giving their bodies for dissection. If this stigma were done away, he thought something would be done to promote the improvement in a branch of knowledge which was essential to the public.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 supported the amendment. He had been a commissioner to inquire into the state of the University of Edinburgh, and had an opportunity of knowing that the difficulty of procuring subjects caused numbers of students to go abroad, and prevented those who remained at home from obtaining a complete education.The Earl of Rosebery
1358 said, that one of its objects was to take the affirmation of Quakers in all cases, criminal as well as civil. He knew many respectable members of that body, and he assured
1358The Marquis of Lansdowne
 concurred in the amendment, and said it had been his intention to propose it. In assenting to it, however, he wished it to be considered that it was of great importance to encourage a respect for the dead, and that any thing which lessened that respect would be highly improper.Lord Tenterden
ss1371 said, he had entertained a sincere hope that what the noble duke had to bring forward would have been so entirely satisfactory to parliament and the country, as to give occasion for no observations whatever. He confessed, however, that though the outset of the noble duke's speech had afforded him the hope that those expectations would be realized, he had been disappointed with what had followed; and though he could assure the noble duke that he thought every thing which emanated from him entitled to the utmost consideration, he could not but make known his disappointment. Circumstances had changed since a bill of a nature similar to the one now proposed was discussed last session. Their lordships were aware that circumstances had changed most favourably, notwithstanding the arguments which had been urged in favour of that bill, and the evils pointed out as likely to arise from a moderate harvest. Those anticipations
ss1371The Earl of Falmouth
sssss1372ssss said, he could not allow that opportunity to pass, without expressing an opinion upon the present proposition. He had heard it rumoured a day or two ago, that the pivot price would be raised 2sssss1372ssssLord King
s1373 said, that though this was not the proper time to discuss the proposed bill, he wished to express his anxious desire that this question should be brought, if possible, to a satisfactory termination in the course of the present session. It was high time that the country should know how it was really to stand respecting these laws; for he could not imagine a greater evil than the continuance of the present incomplete plan for two or three years longer. He assured the noble duke, that he felt the greatest anxiety to look with a favourable eye upon any approximation to a fair settlement of this question. If his noble friend had, however, through any views of policy or consistency, introduced his clause of last
s1373Lord Goderich
137613751374s was of opinion, that the country did not stand in need of a law, the effect of which must be to lessen the amount of agricultural produce, and consequently still further to diminish the employment at present afforded to agricultural labourers. The importation of one million quarters of foreign corn must, it was calculated, reduce the market-price in this country 2137613751374sLord Redesdale
ss1370ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.s.,sss1369s1368sssss136713661365 said, he rose for the purpose of moving for certain papers, which would tend to show their lordships the operation of the act of the last session, relative to the introduction, for home consumption, of Corn warehoused before the 1st of July, 1827. In performing that task, he would avail himself of the opportunity it afforded him of stating to the House, the nature of the measure to regulate the introduction of foreign corn, which it was the intention of government to propose to parliament, and the principle upon which that measure
ss1370ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.s.,sss1369s1368sssss136713661365The Duke of Wellington
14441443 said, he had no objection to the passing of the bill, but he rose to object to one of its clauses. Their lordships would find in the clause directing the punishment for the crime of murder, the usual punishment of the dissection of the criminal's body was omitted, and power was given to the judge of ordering the criminal to be hung in chains. He was certainly not one of those who on common occasions contended for severity of punishment. It had, indeed, been remarked, that the law of this country was much too sanguinary. The punishment of death was unhappily extended to many offences of an inferior nature to the crime of murder; and the distinction made by dissecting the murderer's body appeared to him to give an additional terror against
14441443Earl Grey
1445 concurred in the sentiments expressed by the noble earl. When the bill was committed a first time, the noble marquis proposed the alteration in the law now alluded to. It was then understood, that he had no objection to the clause, though he desired another opportunity for further consideration on the subject, when the bill should be recommitted. Upon that occasion he happened not to be present, and had lost the opportunity of expressing his opinion. If it were not now too late to make an amendment, he should be desirous that the clause should be restored to its original shape. The object of omitting the punishment from the bill was, because it attached a stigma to the practice of dissection, which, if done away with, would give greater facility for a supply of subjects, and thereby promote the science of surgery. Whether that would be the case he had great doubt; and when it was a matter of doubt, he should be unwilling that any alteration should be made in the law as it now stood, which law he hoped would serve as an additional terror to induce persons, if any thing could induce them, from the commission of that most horrible of crimes. He perfectly agreed in what the noble earl had said, that when a man had made up his mind to the commission of murder, no consideration of the punishment could divert him from it; but
1445Lord Tenterden
 said, that the ground on which the punishment of dissection was omitted in the clause, was the statement of persons in the surgical profession, who represented that they would rather remain without the assistance of that small supply of bodies which the law afforded them, if by that means a stigma would be removed, by which removal they hoped to obtain a sufficient number of bodies for purposes of science, without being obliged to make use of a system, which had the effect of exciting crime in another direction: he alluded to the practice of body-snatchers, a practice which placed men in a situation, by which they were gradually led on to the commission of other crimes. So long as the present law afforded the only supply of bodies for surgeons, a road would be kept continually open to crime. As long as the supply of subjects was inadequate to the purposes of instruction, the medical student would be driven out of this country to complete his education. It could not, however, be an idle theory, that condemning the murderer to be dissected operated to prevent people from giving their bodies, after death, for the same purpose. As long as it was thought necessary to preserve this distinction between murder and other crimes, by adding dissection to death, so long would innocent persons have an abhorrence to submit to what was regarded as a great punishment. No persons would voluntarily expose themselves or their friends to that which was inflicted on murderers; though it was of great importance to science that persons should, after death, be dissected. He would not, however, persevere; and it was yet quite time for his noble friend to move his amendment.The Marquis of Lansdowne
145914581457Oh Gloria !1456prœmuniresome measuresnow"He" (Ormonde) "had kept the discovery of the king's change a secret from his friend the chancellor all the time they were abroad together, but prœmuniresome measuresnow***"Valeat, quantum valere potest."1455"Rites and Usages of the Church of England as now practised,"as did1454***14531452**so I hope you will leave room for the admission of all Protestants that are willing and able to serve."places of trust by this Revolution. I know you are sensible there is a necessity of some law to settle the Oaths to be taken by all persons to be admitted to such places. I recommend it to your cave to make a speedy provision for it; and, as I doubt not but you will sufficiently provide against Papists, so I hope you will leave room for the admission of all Protestants that are willing and able to serve.""Integit et large diffuso lumine ridet."†—" semperque innubilus æther*"Region mild of calm and serene air,"*"A Bill for strengthening the Protestant Succession."1451*** rose, and spoke to the following effect:—145914581457Oh Gloria !1456prœmuniresome measuresnow"He" (Ormonde) "had kept the discovery of the king's change a secret from his friend the chancellor all the time they were abroad together, but prœmuniresome measuresnow***"Valeat, quantum valere potest."1455"Rites and Usages of the Church of England as now practised,"as did1454***14531452**so I hope you will leave room for the admission of all Protestants that are willing and able to serve."places of trust by this Revolution. I know you are sensible there is a necessity of some law to settle the Oaths to be taken by all persons to be admitted to such places. I recommend it to your cave to make a speedy provision for it; and, as I doubt not but you will sufficiently provide against Papists, so I hope you will leave room for the admission of all Protestants that are willing and able to serve.""Integit et large diffuso lumine ridet."†—" semperque innubilus æther*"Region mild of calm and serene air,"*"A Bill for strengthening the Protestant Succession."1451***Lord Holland
.—One year.Lord Eldon
1483York1482mutatis mutandis14811480Opera et Dies*Opera et Dies*1479the consequences whereof are much to be apprehended, though possibly they may not all be foreseen to their full extent."14781477147614751474147314721471**frequently threatened with vexatious law suits*1470**Illud quod dicere noloJusjubjectum Juris1469Per Quodsin Banco Regis14681467146614651464**"Scorn'd delights and liv'd laborious days,"*Is Hangman's work, and drudgery for Devils."*The part of Heaven in Kings; for Punishment—"Reward,14631462pari passu14611460.—I thank my noble and learned friend; one year, then, taken the Sacrament, according to the rites of the Church of England—and this provision was not to take place till two years after the passing of the act. Now, how could the legislators of that day anticipate future legislation any more than we can do? Unless they did, how could they know, before-hand, what the test they were prescribing would, two years afterwards, be? Suppose the act of Uniformity had not passed, what then would have been the effect of the Corporation act which passed before it? Why, it would have stood thus: All persons accepting office in a corporation must have taken the Sacrament according to the rites of the Presbyterian church, or rather according to the individual whim of the officiating parish minister, who might decide what those rites, in the particular instance, should be.—The general design of the Corporation act was to effect a purpose possibly salutary, possibly necessary, but certainly of a temporary nature. Many of its provisions have expired; others are repealed; and in those points, as in others, it forms a complete contrast to the Test act, and is as much at variance with it, in its subsequent fate and treatment, as it was in its original design, history and principle.1483York1482mutatis mutandis14811480Opera et Dies*Opera et Dies*1479the consequences whereof are much to be apprehended, though possibly they may not all be foreseen to their full extent."14781477147614751474147314721471**frequently threatened with vexatious law suits*1470**Illud quod dicere noloJusjubjectum Juris1469Per Quodsin Banco Regis14681467146614651464**"Scorn'd delights and liv'd laborious days,"*Is Hangman's work, and drudgery for Devils."*The part of Heaven in Kings; for Punishment—"Reward,14631462pari passu14611460Lord Holland
14851484 said, he thought it imperative upon their lordships to insert in this measure some clause rendering the support and maintenance of orthodoxy necessary on the part of those Dissenters who were appointed to public offices. The Church ought to be protected against the machinations of persons who avowedly professed Deism and Infidelity. It was not his intention to oppose the second reading of the bill; but when it went into a committee, he should propose such alterations in the preamble as would, in his opinion, have this effect. Was it not, he asked, right to have some provisions made against blasphemy and irreligion? He hoped that if he should have the honour to propose any such clauses, he should receive the support, not only of every friend of the Established Church, but of every real friend of civil and religious liberty. It had been repeatedly used as an argument for
14851484The Earl of Winchelsea
149114901489148814871486 said:—My Lords, in expressing my concurrence in what has fallen from the most reverend prelate, I feel it necessary to advert to the origin of those laws which it is now considered expedient to repeal. I feel this to be the more necessary, because the noble baron, in urging their repeal, has dwelt at considerable length, on the circumstances in which the country was placed when they
149114901489148814871486The Bishop of Lincoln
149714961495149414931492 said:—My lords, on a question of such a kind, and of such importance to the great interests of Church and State, as that which is now before us; your lordships will probably not be surprised that more than one of the episcopal bench should be desirous of offering their opinions; and although much of what I might have been disposed to say, has been anticipated by the most reverend prelate who spoke earlier in the debate, and by the right reverend prelate who has just sat down, yet, considering not only the magnitude of the question itself, but the manner in which it has been treated, both in and out of parliament, by its advocates on the one hand, and its opponents on the other, I cannot but feel
149714961495149414931492The Bishop of Durham
15021501150014991498 said, he did not think it consistent with his sense of the importance of the question before their lordships to give a silent vote upon it. To him it was most painful to witness what labour had been used by some persons to resist the principle that the Established Church was inseparable from the State, and that it was impossible to destroy the connection between the Church and State without destroying the constitution. The Roman Catholics were in the habit of saying, that they were unjustly deprived of the benefits of the constitution. Now, if they would say that their object was to secure the benefits of the constitution, and not to alter that constitution, he would come to issue with them on that point. It gave him particular satisfaction to think, that in opposing the repeal of the Corporation and Test acts, he was supporting the original intention of their enactment. Their lordships had learned, that though this measure was at first manfully opposed in the other House, yet those who had done so had ultimately acquiesced in it. To be sure there was a strong majority in its favour; but then, though there might be some elsewhere who thought it consistent with their own interests to give up the interests of the State, and that against their own opinions and in compliance with the opinions of a majority, that was no reason why he or their lordships, should yield up their opinion to the majority of the other House of parliament; on the contrary, he felt it to be his duty, and that of any other peer, to act on their own conscientious conviction and even though they should have a majority of their lordships' House against them. He had heard much of the march of mind and the progress of information, and of persons changing opinions which they had held for years; but he did not think it possible that the march of
15021501150014991498The Earl of Eldon
150515041503 said:—I did not mean to trouble your lordships with my opinions on the present measure in this stage of the proceedings, and I should have reserved what I intended to offer for a future opportunity, had it not been for the statements of my noble and learned friend, relative to the line of conduct adopted by government, when the present bill was first brought forward in the other House. It is certainly true, that my right hon. friends in the other House did oppose the bill when it was first introduced to their notice: and the principle on which they opposed it was, that although they did not approve entirely of the existing law on the subject, they had found it to conduce so much to the advantage of Church and State, without impairing the religious peace of the country—a peace which has been enjoyed by this country in a greater degree than by any other—that they conceived we might risk the loss of our present advantages, if the system under which those advantages had been
150515041503The Duke of Wellington
150815071506 said, that after the able, eloquent, and perfectly satisfactory, speech of the noble mover, and after the sentiments which their lordships had heard from several right reverend prelates—sentiments which did no less honour to themselves than to the assembly to which they were addressed, and the Church to which they belonged—it would ill become him to go at large into the general arguments which might be adduced in favour of the second reading of the bill. He felt great satisfaction at the opinion expressed by the noble duke at the head of his majesty's government, and the commencement of his intention to support the measure, which it might have been the original purpose of government to oppose. Little was he, who was favourable to the bill then before their lordships, disposed to quarrel with the determination of government. Of one thing he felt confident, that if his
150815071506Lord Goderich
1517151615151514151315121511***15101509 said:—My lords, I should not trespass upon your lordships' patience at this late hour, were it not that I feel it to be my duty, as a prelate of the Established Church, and as a member of the legislature, to assign to the public, and particularly to that part of it with which, by my station in the Church, I happen to be more immediately connected, my reasons for adopting the course which I think it necessary to take in relation to the subject now under your lordships' consideration.1517151615151514151315121511***15101509The Bishop of Chester
 said, that the consideration for their lordships was, whether they would repeal acts which had hitherto proved the best bulwark of the Church, for the purpose of substituting a Declaration, of the effect of which, having no experience, they could not properly judge. If the present law was proved to be oppressive and offensive, let them calmly investigate the evil, and modify it as might, appear necessary; but the necessity should be clearly and distinctly made out: and he doubted whether it had been made apparent on the present occasion. If some sufficient declaration were substituted, he had no objection to the repeal of the laws; but as for the proposed Declaration, he looked upon it as insufficient and insecure. Had a motion been brought forward for a committee to consider what ought to be substituted for the existing laws, he would not have offered the least objection; but he felt himself called upon to oppose the bill as it then stood.The Earl of Mansfield
"And be it further declared, that it shall be part of the duty of the said judges of assize to attend divine service, according to the rites of the Church of England, as aforesaid, unless prevented by illness or other unavoidable impediment.""Be it hereby enacted and declared, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or taken to derogate from the said laudable custom:"And whereas, there is an ancient and laudable custom, that the judges of assize, on their several circuits in England and Wales, do solemnly attend divine service, according to the rites of the Church of England, in the cathedral, or other principal Church of the city or town, wherein the said assize is holden:"And whereas, there are several offices of trust under the Crown, of too little power or influence to make it necessary to require the said declaration from persons admitted to the same; be it therefore enacted, that his majesty in council shall be enabled to enumerate and publish, by order of council, a list of such inferior offices as his said majesty in Council shall deem not to require the said declaration to be made as a qualification for admission to the same. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to empower his majesty, as aforsaid, to excuse from taking the said declaration, any person about to be admitted to be a member of his majesty's most honourable Privy Council, or any person appointed and named to be judge in any of his majesty's courts of King's-bench, Common Pleas, or Exchequer, or Judge of any Court of Record within this realm, or to be justice of the peace in a county of the same, or to hold any office of state under his majesty, his heirs, and successors:1519"'I. A. B., being about to be admitted to (as the case may be), do solemnly declare, in the presence of Almighty God, and of his Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ,
1519"Be it therefore enacted, that so much and such parts of the said several acts passed in the 13th and 25th years of the reign of king George 2nd, and of the said acts passed in the 16th of the reign of king George 2nd, as require, &c., be repealed. And be it further enacted, that in lieu of being required to take or receive the said Sacrament, as aforesaid, all persons who are at present by law required to take the said Sacrament, &c., either as a qualification for being admissible to any corporation, or to any office of trust, or as a condition subsequent to being admitted to any such corporation, &c., shall, except as hereafter excepted, immediately before their admission to such corporation, &c., make and subscribe the declaration following:—"And whereas, it is just and fitting that all persons now required by law to take the Sacramental Test aforesaid should, on being excused therefrom, be required to give some other sufficient assurance of their being well-disposed to the continuance and preservation of the said United Church:"And whereas, by the laws of this realm, constituting and confirming for ever the treaties of union between England and Ireland, it is solemnly enacted and declared, that the churches of England and Ireland, as by law established, be united into one Protestant Episcopal Church, to be called the United Church of England and Ireland; and that the doctrine, worship, and government of the said United Church shall be, and shall remain, in full force for ever, as the same are now by law established for the Church of England; and that the continuance and preservation of the said United Church, as the Established Church of England and Ireland, shall be deemed and taken to be an essential and fundamental part of the said Union; and that, in like manner, the doctrine, worship, and government, of the Church of Scotland shall remain, and be preserved as the same are now by law established, and by the acts for the Union of the two kingdoms of England and Scotland:1518"And whereas, many religious and conscientious persons having objected to the necessity of taking the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, for the purposes aforesaid, as tending to an irreverent use of the same; and whereas, experience for many years past having proved that many Protestant Dissenters from the Church of England and Ireland may be admitted to offices in corporations, and to offices of trust under the Crown, without injury to the Constitution in Church and State, it
1518 expressed his intention of moving, that the following clause be inserted in the bill—
"And be it further declared, that it shall be part of the duty of the said judges of assize to attend divine service, according to the rites of the Church of England, as aforesaid, unless prevented by illness or other unavoidable impediment.""Be it hereby enacted and declared, that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or taken to derogate from the said laudable custom:"And whereas, there is an ancient and laudable custom, that the judges of assize, on their several circuits in England and Wales, do solemnly attend divine service, according to the rites of the Church of England, in the cathedral, or other principal Church of the city or town, wherein the said assize is holden:"And whereas, there are several offices of trust under the Crown, of too little power or influence to make it necessary to require the said declaration from persons admitted to the same; be it therefore enacted, that his majesty in council shall be enabled to enumerate and publish, by order of council, a list of such inferior offices as his said majesty in Council shall deem not to require the said declaration to be made as a qualification for admission to the same. Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to empower his majesty, as aforsaid, to excuse from taking the said declaration, any person about to be admitted to be a member of his majesty's most honourable Privy Council, or any person appointed and named to be judge in any of his majesty's courts of King's-bench, Common Pleas, or Exchequer, or Judge of any Court of Record within this realm, or to be justice of the peace in a county of the same, or to hold any office of state under his majesty, his heirs, and successors:1519"'I. A. B., being about to be admitted to (as the case may be), do solemnly declare, in the presence of Almighty God, and of his Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ,
1519"Be it therefore enacted, that so much and such parts of the said several acts passed in the 13th and 25th years of the reign of king George 2nd, and of the said acts passed in the 16th of the reign of king George 2nd, as require, &c., be repealed. And be it further enacted, that in lieu of being required to take or receive the said Sacrament, as aforesaid, all persons who are at present by law required to take the said Sacrament, &c., either as a qualification for being admissible to any corporation, or to any office of trust, or as a condition subsequent to being admitted to any such corporation, &c., shall, except as hereafter excepted, immediately before their admission to such corporation, &c., make and subscribe the declaration following:—"And whereas, it is just and fitting that all persons now required by law to take the Sacramental Test aforesaid should, on being excused therefrom, be required to give some other sufficient assurance of their being well-disposed to the continuance and preservation of the said United Church:"And whereas, by the laws of this realm, constituting and confirming for ever the treaties of union between England and Ireland, it is solemnly enacted and declared, that the churches of England and Ireland, as by law established, be united into one Protestant Episcopal Church, to be called the United Church of England and Ireland; and that the doctrine, worship, and government of the said United Church shall be, and shall remain, in full force for ever, as the same are now by law established for the Church of England; and that the continuance and preservation of the said United Church, as the Established Church of England and Ireland, shall be deemed and taken to be an essential and fundamental part of the said Union; and that, in like manner, the doctrine, worship, and government, of the Church of Scotland shall remain, and be preserved as the same are now by law established, and by the acts for the Union of the two kingdoms of England and Scotland:1518"And whereas, many religious and conscientious persons having objected to the necessity of taking the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, for the purposes aforesaid, as tending to an irreverent use of the same; and whereas, experience for many years past having proved that many Protestant Dissenters from the Church of England and Ireland may be admitted to offices in corporations, and to offices of trust under the Crown, without injury to the Constitution in Church and State, it
1518The Earl of Winchelsea
1520 said, that with respect to the clause proposed by the noble earl, and which, by the bye, was more like a bill than a clause, if his lordship thought
1520Lord Holland
15731572 said, that before the bill went into the committee, he was desirous of saying a few words upon the general principles and provisions of the Test and Corporation acts, particularly as they affected Scotland; for, notwithstanding all that had been urged, on more than one occasion, by the noble and learned lord (Eldon), he still continued to think, and was ready to maintain, that the interests of the people of Scotland were materially concerned in these statutes, and that but for the annual bill of Indemnity, they would inevitably suffer to a great extent, from the consequences which naturally flowed from them. He offered himself, perhaps, to their lordships for this purpose the more readily, as it so
15731572The Earl of Rosebery
157615751574 said, that the ques-
157615751574The Earl of Eldon
15781577 said, that what had fallen from the learned earl required that he should trouble their lordships with a few words in explanation: and first, he wished the clerk to turn to an entry on he Journals of the 16th of March, 1689. The noble earl argued, that one of the great objects of the Revolution was to support these particular laws. Now, when king William came down to the House to give the royal assent to the bill for annulling the attainder of lord Russell, he addressed them in these memorable words:—" I am, with all the expedition I can, filling up the vacancies that are in offices and places of trust by this Revolution. I know you are sensible there is a necessity of some law to settle the oaths to be taken by all persons to be admitted to such places. I recommend it to your care to make a speedy provision for it; and as I doubt not but you will sufficiently provide against Papists, so I hope you will leave room for the admission of all Protestants that are willing and able to serve." The noble earl had said, that the present objections
15781577Lord Holland
1579 said, he had never stated, that the constitution was formed by the laws and statutes. What he had always said was, that the constitution, as it had existed for a considerable period of time, was a constitution consisting of the union of the State and the Established Church, and that they were united by laws for the preservation of the constitution so acknowledged and so established. If their lordships thought proper to change the constitution they might do so; but he would not be accessary to any such deed. He must act on his own opinion, and he would say, without hesitation, as he hoped to answer to God and his country, that if every man in that House supported the bill, he alone would go below the bar and vote against it. He had not denied that king William had recommended mea-
1579The Earl of Eldon
1580 said, he considered it necessary that their lordships should understand exactly what the law required in Scotland as to religious qualifications. He entirely agreed with his noble friend who had commenced the discussion as to the justice of the claims of the people of Scotland to the repeal of the Test act. But they had not the same right to complain of the Corporation act; and though their lordships' table was loaded with petitions, they were not all for the repeal of the Cor-
1580Lord Melville
158315821581 assured his noble friends who belonged to Scotland, that he did not rise to call them intruders; all he would say on that head was, that if intruders at all, they were very useful ones, and that on some occasions he hardly knew what this country would have done without them. With respect to the bill before the House, the opinions he entertained had been so ably advocated on a late occasion, that he had then felt it unnecessary to trouble their lordships with
158315821581The Earl of Falmouth
1584 said, he rose merely to state to their lordships, that the noble lord who had just sat down did not appear perfectly to understand the ground on which he had recommended this measure. Now, he had not gone the length which the noble lord had attributed to him. He had not called on their lordships to agree to this bill, because it had been passed in the House of Commons. He had merely assigned that as one of the reasons that had induced him to recommend the measure to their lordships. He certainly had alluded to the feeling in favour of the bill, which had for some time been growing up in the House of Commons, as a good reason for entertaining it in their lordships' house; but other reasons also operated on his mind. Many individuals of high eminence in the Church, and who were as much interested as any persons in the kingdom in the preservation of the constitution, had expressed themselves as being favourable to an alteration of the law. The religious feelings of those venerable persons disposed them to entertain this measure, because they felt strong objections to the Sacramental Test. Under these circumstances, wishing to advance and to preserve the blessings of religious peace and tranquillity—conceiving the present to be a good opportunity for securing to the country so inestimable an advantage—he had felt it to be his duty to recommend the measure to their lordships. It was on all these grounds that he supported the bill, and not on the single ground of its having been carried in the House of Commons. He was not one of those who considered that the best means of preserving the constitution of the country was by adhering to measures, which had been called for by particular circumstances, because they had been in existence for two hundred years, since the lapse of time might render it proper to modify, if not to remove them
1584The Duke of Wellington
1585 said, he considered a bill of this, nature, a measure which was so interesting to a large portion of the population, called for deliberate consideration, and ought not to be hastily passed. It appeared extraordinary to him, after the long silence which had prevailed on this subject, that it should be thus suddenly brought before Parliament; and, looking to this circumstance, it seemed as if the government had been taken by surprise. Would any man believe, that after thirty-five or forty years perfect quiescence under these laws, that persons calling themselves Dissenters, without any thing having been done to increase the pressure of those enactments, should suddenly feel the pressure to be so grievous that they could no longer bear it? Was this measure brought forward solely on account of the general feeling of the Dissenters? Because if it were not, he must look for the cause elsewhere. He might be wrong; but he must conceive that cause to be closely connected with another measure, which involved political considerations of great importance. He believed that it was with reference to that measure, that this question was brought forward at present. The question, however, for their lordships' consideration was, whether the present was a satisfactory measure. It was brought from the other House of Parliament—that House having, by this bill, admitted that some Declaration was necessary. Now, it appeared to him to be very curious, that in the Declaration contained in the bill, no notice was taken of this important question; namely, whether a man to whom the Declaration was about to be administered was or was not a Christian? He should be sorry to exclude the Dissenters from those privi-
1585The Earl of Harewood
1586 said, he was of opinion that a Test could easily be formed, which would provide for the perfect security of the Church of England, and be satisfactory to the other party. As to the Church of Scotland, it was, he conceived, perfectly safe as the bill at present stood, Additions had been suggested to the Declaration, but they did not immediately meet his ideas on the subject; and he meant, at the proper time, to propose such alterations as appeared to him more likely to effect the object which every Declaration must have in view. The phrase, "the wisdom of our ancestors," had, he thought, on a former night, been taken up and animadverted on very inconsiderately. He hoped that this arose from the heat and fervour of the moment. It. had been said on that occasion, that the measures which they were now called on to repeal, had been framed and carried in a spirit of violence and faction; but he would maintain, on the contrary, that they were the result of policy and reason, and were rendered necessary by the circumstances of the time. Great dangers at that period threatened the interests both of the State and of the Church. It was right that those dangers should be resisted; but it was equally proper, at the present, moment, when no hostility towards the Church was
1586The Bishop of Llandaff
1587 was anxious that the inviolability of the Church of Scotland should be strictly preserved. The learned lord (Eldon) had stated, that the safety of the constitution of Great Britain was intimately connected with the safety of the Church of England. He admitted this position in its fullest extent. He felt that the Church of England was an essential part of the constitution of England; but he must be allowed to say, that the Church of Scotland was as much so. Both churches formed a part of the constitution. Such, then, being the case, he presumed that, to have omitted the Church of Scotland in this measure, would have been wrong; because it would appear as if, in point of fact, when the inviolability of only one Church was noticed, the inviolability of the other was not recognized. The Church of Scotland, however, needed no Test; and, with respect to that point, he would never consent that any Test should be imposed with reference to it. Beyond that, he would state his firm belief to be, that the Church of England needed Tests just as little. His opinion of the Church of England was such as induced,
1587The Earl of Haddington
1588—I have ever been of; opinion, that the stability of all Governments was best ensured by vesting the political powers of the State in those of its subjects who conform to its Established Religion. In that spirit the Laws were made which it is now proposed to repeal; and they are allowed on all hands to have been necessary in their own day. But, under the nominal existence of these laws, controlled as they have been, or rather suspended, for the last four-score years by the annual Indemnity Act, the Security originally intended has been practically annulled; and nothing has remained but the Inconvenience, greatly exaggerated, and over-rated, as I think—the inconvenience of placing the Clergy often in the situation of being called upon to administer the Holy Sacrament under unsuitable circumstances, and inducing the Dissenters also to take offices under the expected protection of the Indemnity Act, to which offices they were, at the same time, by the permanent Laws of the Country, inadmissible.1588Lord Colchester.
 said, he should oppose the bill; and his great reason for doing so was, that the constitution compelled the king to be a member of the Church of England. He was compelled to take an oath, in which he swore to support the Church of England and Ireland, as by law established; and yet they were, by this bill, about to provide, that every one of his ministers might be of a different Church [hear]. The king was compelled to be of the Church of England, but all his confidential advisers might profess another faith. This was his great objection, and he did not know how it could be removed.Lord Redesdale
1589 said, that of the two amendments the first was wholly unnecessary; the second extremely mischievous. There would be no hardship in proposing the intended Declaration to persons already qualified for office under the
1589Lord Ellenborough
 agreed in considering the first amendment superfluous, and the second extremely mischievous. The learned lord had said, that it would be a hardship to require from persons who had already taken the Sacramental Test, a new Declaration in the shape of another Test. But that Test merely consisted of a Declaration, to which those who had already taken the Sacramental Test could have no possible objection. The other amendment would be most mischievous, as it was calculated to maintain those invidious distinctions which it was the object of the bill to remove.The Earl of Harrowby
1590 sincerely hoped that the amendments would not be agreed to. To those amendments he was strongly opposed; and he was surprised that some consideration for his consistency did not operate to prevent the learned lord from proposing them. The noble lord had formerly declared, that he supported the Sacramental Test as the means of keeping the Dissenters out of office. Now, however, he stated that many Dissenters took the Test as a qualification for office, and he; proposed to except such Dissenters from the Declaration contained in the bill. The noble lord would be content with the taking of the Sacrament as a proof of the sincerity of a Church of England man,
1590The Bishop of Chester
 would recommend the right rev. prelate to attend to his own consistency rather than to be talking about that of others. He had at least been as consistent as the right rev. prelate on this subject, and he would be so to the end. He did not know whether the present bill applied to ecclesiastical corporations; indeed, he believed the framers of it were themselves ignorant whether it went to that extent. If it did apply to ecclesiastical corporations, the right rev. prelate opposite, in being promoted, as it was very likely he would be in the course of time, to a certain high and permanent station in the church, would be obliged to take the Declaration prescribed by this bill before he could be admitted.The Earl of Eldon
 did not consider it fair in the noble lord to put an hypothesis which was not a fact, and to argue upon a case which could not happen under the existing laws. He would advise the noble lord to found his reasonings upon something more tangible and more to the purpose. Such a course would be more consistent with the discharge of his duty, and more likely, perhaps, to attain his object.The Bishop of Chester
 begged the reverend prelate would abstain from thus gratuitously tendering his advice. He had advised him (lord Eldon) to mind his duty, but he should not offend the rev. prelate by advising him as to the mode in which he should discharge his duty.The Earl of Eldon
1591 said, the noble earl would except from the proposed Declaration all such members of the Church of England, as well as Dissenters, who had taken the Sacrament according to the rites of the Established Church. But many members of the Church of England might have taken the Sacrament in the discharge of their religious duties, whereas, to qualify for office, it must be taken for that especial purpose, and before certain magisterial functionaries. There-
1591The Bishop of Litchfield
objected to it. He did not think the security which it proposed at all sufficient. Indeed, it was perfectly ridiculous. From experience he would say, that the Declaration would be entirely nugatory and of no avail. The Chairman said, they had not as yet come to the second clause, which contained the Declaration.Lord Redesdale 
 said, that his objection to that clause was applicable to the whole bill. By the act of settlement, they bound the prince upon the throne by oath to maintain the Protestant establishment; and by this bill they would leave every officer under the sovereign free to profess what religion he pleased. Could there be a greater absurdity in legislation?Lord Redesdale
 proposed as an amendment, that after the words in the Declaration, —" I, A. B., do solemnly," the following be introduced, "and sincerely, in the presence of Almighty God, profess, testify, and"—The Duke of Wellington
1592 proposed, as an additional amendment, that after the word "and," and before the word "declare" there be introduced the words "upon the faith of a Christian." The principle of the measure was to admit persons to office who dissented from the communion of the Church of England. Now, he did not conceive it sufficient to require from such persons, when entering upon office, to declare that they would use none of the influence of which they might become possessed, in virtue of that office, to injure, weaken, or subvert the established church. He conceived that they should be further required, as every magistrate was called upon on entering upon office, to promise to discharge the duties of it, to maintain and uphold the rights and privileges of the Established Church whenever in danger. He should therefore propose, as a further amendment, that after the word "entitle," at the end of the Declaration, the subscriber be further palled upon to say, under the
1592The Bishop of Llandaff
 proposed, that the word "swear" be substituted for the word "declare," and that the subscriber to the Declaration be further required to state that he was a Christian, and that he believed that the Scriptures, as received by the Protestant Churches, contained the revealed word of God. Those who took the Oath of Abjuration were obliged to profess themselves Christians; but this bill required no such profession. He should like to know what those rights and privileges were. If the subscriber were required, not merely to maintain the rights and privileges of the Established Church, but the rights and privileges of the bishops and clergy of that Church, then he could understand what was meant. But the phrase, as it at present stood, was perfectly unintelligible to him.The Earl of Eldon
 said, the amendment proposed by the noble duke should be considered separately from the other amendments, and decided upon its own merits. As that amendment was calculated to give greater solemnity to the Declaration, he was prepared to vote for it. As for the Declaration itself, it required much amendment.Lord Tenterden
 then proposed, that after the word "declare," the words "upon the true faith of a Christian," be introduced.The Bishop of Llandaff
 claimed precedence in point of order for his amendment. He moved, that the word "swear" be substituted for "declare."The Earl of Eldon
15941593 wished to call the attention of their lordships to the nature of the amendments now proposed. They required the candidate for office, first, to declare that he spoke on the faith of a Christian, and then, having drawn from him a declaration of so solemn a nature, they next required him to declare that not only he would not use his office to injure the interests of the church of England, but would use it to maintain and support those interests. In fact, they proposed a declaration, the object of which was to oblige the Dissenter, who, conscientiously
15941593Lord Ellenborough
 said, he was decidedly opposed to the continuance of the Sacramental Test, and expected to have found the bill repealing that act entitled to his unqualified support. He did, however, trust that something would be substituted for what was taken away. He had a sincere respect for the body of Protestant Dissenters, and would advocate; the removal of all disabilities from them; but there were some who called themselves Dissenters (he alluded to the Unitarians), in reference to whom the term was certainly a misnomer. They were not Dissenters; they were not Christians. He was willing to admit the Dissenters—as well those who had been called in that House "the miserable Wesleyans," as those denominated Presbyterians; but those who were not Christians he certainly would exclude.The Earl of Malmesbury
1595 wished to call the attention of their lordships to that part of the bill which preceded this clause. Their lordships were not, perhaps, aware of the material difference between the Corporation and Test acts. He was of opinion, that sufficient consideration had not been paid to the distinction between the qualification for Corporation and other offices. He would suggest the expediency of considering whether there ought not to be a material difference between the two acts in the measure before the committee. The Corporation act required persons accepting office to take the Sacrament, and the Test act was framed at the outset against Popish recusants. It appeared to him that, in repealing those two acts, proper substitutes were not recommended; seeing that they affected different interests, and were intended to apply to different classes. The Corporation act applied only to England, and not to Scotland; for that act was passed by the legislature of England, which, at the time, had no power to
1595Lord Tenterden
1598et vera incessu pateat Dea.1597bonâ fide1596bonâ fide said, he thought that the distinction between the principle and object of the two acts could be better discussed in a future stage of the committee, than upon the present clause. He, for one, could certainly not conceive what danger could arise to the State from leaving the bill with the original Declaration; nor could he apprehend the additional value of the proposed substitute to counteract such a danger, if any should happen to arise. He differed entirely from his noble and learned friend with respect to the danger of the whole measure, and he was fortified in this opinion by the conduct of the legislature, not at any one particular period under a sudden exigency, but during an uninterrupted series of years, when they had uniformly interposed to suspend these acts, and thereby manifested their indisposition to believe that any danger arose to the Church from the admission into office of a large proportion of the Dissenters. A right rev. prelate had re-stated what he believed to be an historical mistake, respecting the origin of these statutes; namely, that they were originally intended to exclude from civil office all who were not 1598et vera incessu pateat Dea.1597bonâ fide1596bonâ fideThe Earl of Harrowby
 defended the clergy of the Established Church from any excessive proneness to seek the aid of the secular arm. However, if they were altogether to abandon the benefit of that security, they might as well be at once without the enactment of the various statutes which had fenced round the Established Church. With respect to the question before them, he knew that many persons were alarmed at the omission in the bill of any thing like a strong profession of Christianity. This objection ought certainly to be removed.The Bishop of Durham
1599 protested, that nothing was further from his intention than to say any thing which could excite an unpleasant sensation in the minds of
1599The Earl of Harrowby
1600 said, that though he was anxious to give the reverend bench every reasonable satisfaction, he could not refrain from reminding them, that if they would listen to every suspicion which ingenuity would discover for them, they would make this bill not a measure of peace, but of religious animosity and discord. The question which they were called upon to decide was, whether they should introduce an oath instead of a Declaration into the bill. Now, it appeared to him, that their lordships had already virtually decided that question by agreeing to that part of the clause, which called upon every person taking office to sign a Declaration. The bill was intended as a measure of religious peace; but it would not retain that character if it made it incumbent upon individuals to say, "I swear" instead of "I declare" so and so. He hardly knew whether a bill which had been introduced that session for the purpose of conferring relief, in certain cases, on Quakers, had passed or not; but if it had, it would be rendered nugatory by the substitution of the words "I swear," for "I declare;" for, as their religious tenets prevented them from swearing, those words would effectually exclude them from any office of trust and importance. Independently of this objection to substi-
1600The Earl of Carnarvon
 expressed himself more favourable to inserting a Declation than an oath in this bill. The Declation in question was to be made in the presence of Almighty God, and he could not see that there was more in an oath than in such a Declaration.The Bishop of Chester
1601 said, that as their lordships called on the king, in his coronation oath, to swear to maintain the Church, the bishops, and the clergy, in their due rights and privileges, it was only fitting that they should call upon all subjects who held office under him to take the same oath. He doubted whether this measure would be a measure of religious peace. The acts which it sought to repeal better deserved that appellation; for, on the one hand, they were confirmatory of the supremacy of the Church, and on the other they held out an indemnity to all Dissenters, in all cases where such indemnity could safely be afforded them. One objection to this bill was, that it gave a dispensing power to the Crown, and would leave it to his majesty to determine
1601The Earl of Eldon
 said, he had voted for the repeal of the Test and Corporation acts, in the expectation that it would promote peace and good understanding between the Church and the Dissenters. He trusted that the bill would be so framed as to render it a boon, for which the Dissenters might feel some gratitude. For that reason he would rather have a Declaration than an oath inserted in the bill: but he would add, after the words of the Declaration, the following words, "in the name of Jesus Christ." He thought that no offence could be taken at those words by any conscientious Dissenter. It would be shameful if any person who took office in a Christian country should be reluctant to declare publicly that he was a Christian.The Bishop of Bath and Wells
160416031602eodem intuitu said, he was of opinion that it was almost impossible to look at this amendment, without looking 160416031602eodem intuituThe Marquis of Lansdowne
1605 proposed as an
1605The Duke of Wellington
 expressed his great satisfaction at the words introduced by the noble duke, and hoped that they would be received with the same satisfaction by those for whose benefit the bill was intended.The Archbishop of York
 proposed as an amendment, to add, "in the presence of the Almighty God, and his Son our Saviour, Jesus Christ."The Earl of Winchelsea
 suggested to the duke of Wellington, that the words should be not "published by authority," but "the version of the Scriptures received by the Protestant Church."—To this the duke of Wellington was understood to assent, as these were the words of another statute, which the noble duke said he wished to copy.The Earl of Lauderdale
 hoped the noble duke would not press his amendment, as it would oblige him to object to the words if added. It was much to be desired that they should abstain from dogmatising.The Bishop of Chester
 said, his object was to exclude from office those who would not subscribe to the declaration of Christ being the Son of God; which he thought could give no offence to any person who believed the fundamental doctrines of our faith.The Earl of Winchelsea
1606.—If your lordships, in an evil hour, shall think fit to accede to the amendment proposed by the noble duke, I shall feel it to be my duty to oppose this bill in every future stage, Instead of limiting yourselves to imposing upon all aspirants for office a Declaration that they will not injure the rights and privileges of the Church, you are calling upon them to make a Declaration of their creed. You are entering into details of faith, when you call upon them to declare what part of the Old and New Testament they believe in. Can you say, that there are no controverted books, no apocryphal writings, on which different sects do not entertain different opinions? Whilst you express your desire to throw open the doors of office to all classes of Dissenters, why do you close them again by calling upon them to make a Declaration of their belief in all parts of the Old and New Testament,
1606The Earl of Carnarvon
1607 said, he approved of the Declaration. If they added any oaths, they would not add to the security of the Church, and would defeat their purpose. The Church did not need any such protection: its security was founded on the purity of its doctrines and the strictness of its faith. To impose these difficulties discovered something like a case of weakness. So far from upholding the character and dignity of the Church of England, they had a direct tendency to injure the one and degrade the other. Although at the present period, in consequence of the impulse given to knowledge, that occurred which had always occurred while knowledge was in its infancy; namely, the existence of a disposition to shake off ancient religious restraints, and to lean to infidel opinions, he was nevertheless persuaded, that that disposition was confined to a certain class of persons, and that at no time, since the Reformation, did the Church of England stand in higher estimation than at the present moment. Never were its functionaries more distinguished by their attention to their duties; and when the nature of the annual supply which the Church received from the universities was considered, there was every apparent security for her rising higher and higher in the public esteem. Under these circumstances, and feeling that the Church required no such protection, he should lament the transformation of the civil Declaration which the bill contained into a religious Test. The supremacy of the Church of England was conferred on her by law. The means, therefore, by which that supremacy was supported ought to be civil. It was exceedingly desirable to put an end to the Test and Corporation acts, not only to rescue our fellow-subjects from the obloquy cast upon them, but as a warning against future legislation in the same spirit. Although he did ample justice to the motives of those who proposed the various changes in the Declaration, he begged to remind them, that if they thus went on, step by step, altering its nature, they would undo with one hand what they had done with the other. It was a most memorable circumstance attending this
1607Lord Calthorpe
1608 said, he would ask their lordships, what was the simple law on this subject as it now stood? Why, it merely supposed that those persons who took offices were members of the Established Church; and, therefore, instead of interrogating them individually—"Are you a member of the Church of England?" it said, "Do you conform to the ceremonies of that Church? because if you do, I will not inquire more particularly." This was the simple law as it now stood; and the Declaration would only introduce doubt and difficulty where none existed now. If they would simply repeal the present law, matters would stand precisely as they did before the passing of that law. The Church of England stood before the passing of the Test and Corporation acts, and it stood now. To introduce a clause like this would lead to endless disputes. Many men would declare what they would not swear to; and some did not think an oath binding, if it was not proposed in their own way. He could see no end of the difficulties to which this clause would lead, If they would say, that it was no longer necessary that persons taking office should show that they were members of the Established Church by adhering to its ceremonies, let them repeal the law altogether, and not add complicated difficulties by such an alteration as that now proposed. And, after all, what did it do? It allowed a man to exercise every other influence in the world but that which he derived from his office. It admitted to office any person, whatever his religious opinions might be, if he would promise not to make his office the means of subverting the church. The first Church in this country was the Church of Rome; but at one time they had a king upon the throne who had the House of Lords at. his command. He, was a sort of absolute king, who by
1608Lord Redesdale
 observed, that he had introduced his amendment with a hope that it might tend to the production of unanimity. Having, however, become aware that the words of it were objectionable, as they might have the effect which he never intended, of excluding Roman Catholics from being officers of the army and navy, he should propose a more comprehensive form of expression.The Duke of Wellington
1609 said, that as to the words which it was the intention of the noble duke to insert, he did not wish them to form a part of the bill. For his own part, he should have been more content with a simple repeal of the existing laws, without any Declaration at all. He should prefer that the Church of England should stand, as assuredly it would stand, upon that rock which was formed by the purity of its doctrines and the superior character of its professors. These would form security enough, without the aid of Test and Corporation acts. On these the Church of Ireland had rested in safety, without any such assistance as these acts were supposed to afford; or if it was exposed to any danger it was owing to those severe and intolerant laws which made the majority of the people of Ireland the enemies of the church establishment. If, then, he should have preferred the simple repeal of the existing laws, so also he should prefer the simple Declaration as it originally stood, to the amendments which had been proposed in it. To the first words introduced by the noble duke he had no objection; but he was afraid that by their endeavours to conciliate, they frequently got into difficulties. The ground which the noble duke had taken on this question entitled him to the thanks of the country, and increased the confidence which he had in the noble duke's administration. If some further proof of the candidate for office being a Christian were necessary, it would be better, perhaps, to add, as a reverend prelate had proposed, the words ",on the true faith of a Christian," or words to that effect. As far, however, as unanimity was
1609Earl Grey
 said, he would not press any noble lords to join with him in his objection, but he could not say "content" to the motion.Lord Holland
 next addressed the House, on the clause referring to chief magistrates of corporate towns. The learned lord said, he fully subscribed to all that had been urged with reference to the importance to be attached to the Established Church. That Church was, and ought to be supported as part of the constitution; consequently every thing that upheld its dignity and gave it consequence should be attended to. So long as we had an Established Church, so long ought every thing to be done to give effect and dignity to it. He therefore proposed, that after the word "That," the following words be inserted, "I entertain no opinion on the subject of religion, which can or may prevent me attending the morning and evening service of the Church of England, as set forth in the Book of Common Prayer."Lord Tenterden
 asked whether it was not the fact, that in point of law, no magistrate could attend conventicles in the insignia of his office—whether that law was not in force and perfectly well known?The Bishop of Chester
 said, that might be the fact, but still he thought his amendment useful.Lord Tenterden
1625l1624 thought that no person, except the father or the dry-nurse of them, could object to the smothering of bills by which the public had lost so many millions of money. He had, therefore, no wish to object to the present bill, which seemed intended to correct the blunders of former political quacks. "Quam parvâ, sapientia regitur mundus!" was a well-known maxim, but the framers of those bills could not have been gifted even with that little wisdom; for more foolish bills had never passed through parliament. It seemed scarcely credible that any person belonging to the Treasury should have put into operation two bills which actually counteracted each other. At the end of the last war there remained a permanent debt, and a large burthen of life annuities to the army and navy. A change was effected in that disposition of the debt by a good many nostrums of quacks. By the dead bill, one project was to relieve ourselves from paying the present-life annuities, by distributing it over a larger surface and making smaller annual payments. Another pro-
1625l1624Lord King
l1626 hoped their lordships would excuse him if he offered a few observations in consequence of what had fallen from the noble baron, who, if he had taken the trouble to look into the accounts, might have spared himself the trouble of making those remarks. Whatever might be the merits or demerits of that system which it was the object of the present bill to abolish, it was not on him that the praise or blame should lie; the only fault that could be imputed to him or to his successors was, that they did not proceed to alter the law. It was in Mr. Perceval's time that the life annuities system had been established; and so far from its being a favorite with him, he had cautioned Mr. Perceval of the probability of its not answering the purpose intended. However, Mr. Perceval was persuaded of the advantages of the plan; and, after consulting the best authorities upon their assurances, he submitted it to parliament. He thought, if the noble baron had read Mr. Finlayson's letter with any attention, he would have spared many of his observations. Mr. Finlayson, so far from imputing blame to him or his successors, stated that they had followed the only course which lay open to them; which was, that when he had pointed out, in 1819, that the public was a loser by the transaction, they directed him to make himself master of the subject, and gave every facility to his investigation. That gentleman, then, was far from attributing any fault to him: indeed, he would have been to blame if he had acted upon opinions not digested or matured five years after he had left office. His successors
l1626Lord Bexley
l1627 wished to say a few words on the course pursued by government, with respect to the question of life annuities. It might be possible, he thought, to find quacks in other posts besides that of a minister. The noble baron seemed to think their lordships' House as a repository for his wit. He would not, however, follow his example, but would leave the noble lord to favour their lordships with his critical lectures. With respect to the present question, all that was incumbent on him was, to explain how it happened that no step was taken by him in consequence of the representations of Mr. Finlayson. With respect to the letter to which the noble lord referred, it would be seen by the date, that that letter was addressed to the Treasury at a time when he had no connexion there; namely, on the 30th of April, 1827. He never saw nor heard of that letter, until the commencement of the present year, after parliament had met. Some time after that letter was written, he had become chancellor of the Exchequer, and Mr. Finlayson called upon him and produced two handsomely bound books, containing some of the most complicated and intricate calculations he had ever been
l1627Lord Goderich
1628 said, that the
1628The Earl of Lauderdale
4140 said, he had some amendments to move, to which he wished to call the attention of the House. The first clause of the bill, as it now stood, would go to repeal the act of Charles 2nd; to which he could not consent. He was also bound to say, that he had received some information with regard to the second clause of the bill. In his apprehension, the second clause, as it was now worded, though he was conscientiously satisfied that it was not intended to be adopted in the construction it would bear, was worded in the most artful manner possible. The second clause was stated to be, and undoubtedly was, introduced from those bills, which had been brought into parliament for the relief of the Roman Catholics,
4140The Earl of Eldon
 said, he could not but look at this amendment with some degree of caution, as he was entitled to do, after the learned lord had professed his intention of opposing, and, if possible, of defeating, the bill. As a means of accomplishing his object, the learned lord proposed an alteration, which in effect amounted to this—that no statute relative to the Roman Catholics should be altered, but that they should remain invariably the law of the land. If, therefore, any of the various acts had been passed for the relief of the Catholics, or a clause to this effect had been introduced into any bill, parliament would have bound itself not to pass them. The effect of this clause would be, therefore, greatly to prejudice the cause of the Roman Catholics.The Earl of Clarendon
 was of opinion, that if the proposition of his noble and learned friend did not refer to the Catholics, it would be of no use whatever. If his noble friend intended also to propose an alteration in the Declaration to the same effect, he must oppose it. He had stated that it was not his intention, in giving his support to this bill, to pledge himself to any step, either on one side or the other, as to the Catholic question. His opinions on that subject remained exactly as they were. His object in giving his assent to this measure was simply to do away with the Sacramental Test as a qualification for office. He went no further than that. The proposed amendment would not make the smallest alteration in the bill for any good purpose, and therefore he could not agree to it.The Duke of Wellington
42 saw no reason why the word "Protestant" could not be introduced, with respect to corporations in England. All he meant was, that any man about to be introduced into a corporation in England, should first declare himself to be a Protestant. He knew that the object of the present bill was neither to prejudice nor assist the views of the Roman Catholics: but he would say, that if it passed in its present shape, parliament would have gone a great way in promoting the views of the Catholics. His only ob
42The Earl of Eldon
 expressed his perfect concurrence in the sentiments of the noble and learned lord who had so long stood up in defence of the Church. The Sacramental Test was the only provision that excluded Roman Catholics from corporations; and corporations, their lordships knew, were the door to parliament.The Earl of Falmouth
 begged the House to reflect on the step they were about to take. The Dissenters had petitioned for relief, and he understood that they had united themselves with the Roman Catholics [No, no]. It appeared so, he thought, from the petitions on the table. He could see no objection to the introduction of the words proposed by his noble and learned friend: he did not see that they could in any way do injury to the Dissenters, who were all Protestants. What would the country think of the intentions of parliament, if this amendment should be rejected?The Earl of Harewood
 said, that every person, on becoming the member of a corporation, was obliged to subscribe the Declaration against Transubstantiation, and take the Oath of Supremacy. He did not see, therefore, if this bill passed without the learned lord's amendment, how the Catholics would be a single step nearer their object. With respect to himself, and his right rev. brethren, the only question appeared to be, whether there was security for the Established Church. The Dissenters offered security which was considered sufficient, and then their exclusion became indefensible. But it was a different question with regard to the Catholics, as they could give no sufficient security. They could not be admitted to office without involving danger to the Protestant Church. If they could offer adequate security, the question of their exclusion would be at an end. The decision of this question, therefore, could not involve the decision of the Roman Catholic question.The Bishop of Chester
 entreated their lordships not to suffer this bill to pass without introducing the word "Protestant" into the Declaration, as proposed by the noble and learned earl.The Duke of Newcastle
43 said, that while the learned lord professed a wish to leave
43The Bishop of Llandaff
 said, that the Declaration, as proposed to be amended by the learned earl, would affect officers in the army and navy, some of whom must be in this country, and many of whom, it was well known, were members of the Roman Catholic religion. Now, as the amendment of the noble earl would have the effect of excluding them, he must oppose it. He contended, that it was not the object of the framers of this bill to introduce Roman Catholics into corporations in England. In Ireland they were already eligible.The Duke of Wellington
 thought, that the word "Protestant" ought to be introduced into this Declaration, in order to leave the Catholic question clear and unprejudiced, when it came on for discussion. As he understood the law at present, it was not necessary, in order to be admitted a member of a corporation, to take the Oath of Supremacy; it was only required to do so on becoming a member of its government, such as mayor, bailiff', common-councilman, &c. Now, if it were not necessary to take that Oath, the consequence of this bill would be, that there would be no obstruction to a Roman Catholic becoming an individual member of any corporation. What he understood from his learned friend was, that his amendment was only intended to refer to the Declaration to be taken on becoming a member of a corporation; and he thought the House ought to adopt it, in order to guard against taking any step affecting the other question.The Lord Chancellor
44 said, that all they would do, if they agreed to his amendment, would be to exclude Roman Catholics from corporations. Their lordships ought not to have this act so expressed that persons might hereafter say that it operated in furthering the views of the Roman Catholics. He did not now ask their lordships, although he wished them to do so, to carry this amendment to the other clauses of the bill. All he now said was—let them take care not to open the corporations in England to the Roman Catholics; for he repeated, that a mayor or an alderman was not, as such, necessarily a justice of the peace. As the law now stood, the merely taking the Oaths of Supremacy and Allegiance, without the
44The Earl of Eldon
 said, he entertained so high an opinion of the authority of the noble and learned lord, that he felt called upon to vote for his amendment.The Bishop of Bath and Wells
474645 said:—As far as I have been able to collect, there is one point on which we are all agreed, namely, that the words of this bill should be such as neither to prejudice nor promote the Catholic question—"Therefore," says the learned lord, "adopt my amendment," Therefore, I reply, reject that amendment. If I can show, either that the amendment is actually unnecessary and ineffectual, or if it have any effect, that that effect will be to place the Roman Catholics in a worse situation than that which they at present occupy, I shall have said enough to satisfy even the learned lord, that his proposal ought not to be adopted. He states, that if the mayor or alderman of a borough are also justices of the peace, they are called upon not only to take the Oaths of Allegiance and Supremacy, but to sign the Declaration against Transubstantiation; but
474645Lord Holland
: Those two statutes "and other acts" are mentioned.Lord Eldon
48. It is true the words "and other acts" are used, but those acts are not specified; and, unless the learned lord, as a lawyer and an historian, can satisfy the House that those who passed the Test-act and the Union did consider it in that light, his whole argument falls to the ground, and is not worth a rush. He founds himself upon this:—"I will prove that the Test-act docs establish and preserve the Church." That is the point at issue, and the learned lord must make it out not merely by emoting the Test-act or the Act of Union, but by sound argument. For these reasons I submit, that he has made out no case for the admission of his amendment; and I have no hesitation in saying, that it is clear to every man's understanding, not legally and technically, but practically, that if you pass this act with the amendment in this part
48Lord Holland
49 said, it did not appear to him that there was any thing in the preamble of the bill, or in the bill itself, that called for the amendment of his learned friend. He alluded to the introduction of the preamble to the Act of Union; and he thought it right to state this, because he felt disposed to concur with his learned friend on another point; namely, the introduction of the word "Protestant." The present question related solely to the Corporation act; and the matter to be considered was, whether it would not be necessary, at a future period, as his learned friend intended, to move that the word "Protestant" should be inserted in the provisions of this bill; and whether, if that were not done, Roman Catholics might not be placed in the government of corporations in this kingdom. By the Corporation act, persons who were admitted to have a share in the government of corporations were obliged to take the Oath of Supremacy and the Sacramental Test. Now, if they abrogated the Sacramental Test, all that such persons would have to take was the Oath of Supremacy. If, then, noble lords were of opinion, that the Oath of Supremacy was not alone sufficient, it followed, as a consequence, if they did not agree to the amendment at a future period, that Roman Catholics, if they took the Oath of Supremacy, might take situations in corporate bodies. The question was, whether the Oath of Supremacy alone was or was not a sufficient defence against the admission of Roman Catholics into corporations? His learned friend had, over and over again, stated, that, it was not a sufficient defence. If that position were correct, then he would say, that, so far
49The Lord Chancellor
112 said, that the course of proceeding last night had been this—the learned lord moved an amendment, which was negatived; he afterwards stated,
112The Lord Chancellor
 said, that whatever might be the learned lord's recollection of what took place last night, there was the document from which it appeared that the motion was made; and, if any additional proof were necessary, it was to be found in what had been stated by the learned lord, who said that two speeches had been made upon it; because, who ever heard of any noble lord getting up and making a speech to-day, in support of a motion which he intended to bring forward tomorrow? It was clear, therefore, that that question was decided. The noble and learned lord, however, seemed to disregard the records of the House, and called upon the House to take his assertion in preference. Now, he (lord Holland) was—" a plain blunt man;" but only let him suppose that he, or any of his noble friends had attempted to deny the authority of the records of that House, what dreadful consequences would they not be told would ensue from trampling under foot all the sacred rules, and usages, and customs, handed clown to them by their ancestors! If such a proceeding as this were to be allowed, any man who, after a measure had been carried, wished to defeat that measure, would have nothing to do but to say that the motion had not been made. Their lordships must be bound by their own records. The learned earl, however, fortunately for himself—perhaps unfortunately for the House—would have another opportunity of bringing forward his proposition; but, unquestionably, to do so now would be against all rules, and orders.Lord Holland
118117116 said, he felt himself bound, after what had fallen from his noble and learned friend, to state the opinion which he entertained on this question. He rejoiced that their lordships had acceded to the proposition for postponing the consideration of this subject; because he would admit that the observations then thrown out by his noble and learned friend had the effect of creating doubts in his mind; but the delay that had taken place had afforded leisure for reflection and inquiry; and, after the most mature consideration, he was of opinion that there was nothing of solidity in his noble and learned friend's objection. If he could bring himself for a moment to believe, that the words "I am a Protestant" were calculated to give such a complexion to the question as his noble and learned friend had described, he should be the last man to oppose them. But, because he was of opinion that they would produce no such effect, and because he felt that their insertion would only create irritation in the country, he felt himself bound to vote against the motion of his noble and learned friend. The question for consideration was this,
118117116The Lord Chancellor
120119 said, he was not aware of the legal point which the learned lord on the woolsack had stated; namely, that it was customary for any but the principal officers of corporations to take the declaration against transubstantiation. That, undoubtedly, made a considerable alteration in the case; and many persons
120119The Bishop of Bristol
123122 said, as he had not heard from any noble lord the expression of opinions similar to those which he held on this important bill, he would state briefly what his opinions on the subject were. He was one of those who conceived it to be most important to listen to the conscientious scruples of the Dissenters.
123122The Earl of Roden
124 said, he believed, that in what the noble earl had uttered concerning the support given by the bench of bishops to the Declaration proposed to be introduced into the bill, he had fallen into a serious mistake; since, in declaring his opinion upon the insufficiency of that Declaration, he had asserted, that the bishops had shown a greater regard for the temporalities than for the spiritualities of the Church. If the proposition submitted by the noble baron, with respect to the Declaration, had been to alter the liturgy of the Church in conformity to the opinions of the Dissenters, to expunge from its articles some part of the substance of its Creed, or to change its doctrines or its discipline; if these, or any of these, had been the objects of the proposal, there would have been some ground for the assertion, that the clergy in that House had neglected the spiritual doctrines of the Church. But what was the question before the House? It was, whether a portion of the two acts of parliament, whereby persons dissenting from the doctrines of the Church of England were excluded from holding corporate offices should be repealed? Now what conceivable connection there was between that proposition and the spiritual doctrines of the Church of England, he confessed he could not see; and he was surprised that the noble earl should have fallen into the error of conceiving there was any. The facts and arguments advanced by the noble earl could only have arisen from a mistake of the nature of the proposition before the House, or from a confusion of two things, perfectly distinct in their existence; namely, the temporalities of the Church and its spiritual character. He would tell their lordships, that these two things were not connected together, and that one of these might be destroyed without the principle of the other being affected. The
124The Bishop of Lincoln
125 said, he wished also to offer a few words upon the subject on which his right reverend brother had just addressed the House. The observations of the noble earl seemed to show, that he considered the Corporation and Test acts as a religious security. Now, he had already contended, and would repeat his assertion, that they were only a political security, and that in themselves they had no tendency to support and maintain true religion. If it was true, as the noble earl had represented, that the interests of the Church were ephemeral interests, they were so, because they were not connected with the eternal doctrines of the Church. The only way by which the temporal interests of the Church could be upheld, was by endowment. That was all that the state troubled itself about; it was for the Church to look to the purity of its doctrines and to the discipline of its forms, which ages had already supported. It was uncharitable, then, in the noble earl to make an assertion, which, if it were believed for one moment, could only have the effect of undermining the influence now possessed over the people by the spiritual rulers of the Church. He was sure there was no man more willing to increase that influence than the noble earl: his assertion, therefore, could only be the consequence of the mistake to which his right rev. friend had already alluded, and to a confusion of the two things which
125The Bishop of Chester
 in explanation, said, that the right rev. prelates were mistaken in supposing that he meant to insinuate any thing of the kind imputed to him. Quite the contrary. He only lamented that they should exhibit so much indifference to the admission of persons, dissenting from the establishment into the offices of a Christian government and state.The Earl of Roden,
131 said, he had a decided objection to the repeal of the Corporation and Test acts; and he felt more strongly opposed to that repeal, as he was convinced that the present concession had been made, in consequence of the clamour which had been raised upon the subject, within as well as without that House. He considered the Corporation and Test acts to be the strongest barriers to the inroads upon the constitution in Church and State. But, if they were to be repealed, something like an equivalent security should be provided in their stead. He considered the Declaration as it stood, quite nugatory, as a security. They had obtained something like an approach to an acknowledgment of Christianity in it
131The Duke of Newcastle
132 said, that it had been a very prevalent opinion, that the political introduction of the Sacramental Test was liable to abuse and profanation. Now, he well knew that many pious and excellent men were of a contrary opinion to this; and when such a contrariety of opinions existed, it was their duty to endeavour to find out which side preponderated. But, in addition to the arguments that could be adduced on either side, there was a strong moral feeling in his mind—so strong, that it weighed more with him than all those arguments. It was because the Test act had long been a dead letter—a thing in existence but never in use—that he voted for the present bill. The Test had been made use of in former times, and perhaps it was then proper; but it had now become obsolete. He had voted for the Declaration that was introduced into the bill—not because it formed a stronger bulwark than the Sacramental Test, as far as the Dissenters were concerned, but because he considered it as a Declaration, on the part of the legislature, the laws, and the government, of the country, that, to the best of their power, they would support and uphold the doctrine, discipline, and government, of the Church of England. In giving his assent to the amendment of the noble and learned lord, it was not because he thought that it was of any force or validity, but rather because he knew that there was a feeling abroad—and that too, among very excellent persons—that in bringing in this bill in behalf of the Dissenters, they were at the same time opening the door to the claims of the Roman Catholics. Such, however, was certainly
132The Bishop of Gloucester
 then proposed his amendment, that after the word "that" in the Declaration, be inserted these words, "I believe the canonical books of the Old and New Testament, as set forth by the laws of this realm, to be the revealed word of God." He professed to regard this great question upon principles involved in the broad basis of Christianity, and not with reference to the tenets of any particular sect. In taking up that general position, he must be permitted to protest against the doctrines propounded by the government in their support of this bill, and more particularly against the opinion of one noble lord opposite, who had declared, that the religion of a man did not signify in considering his qualification for civil office. Such an opinion was decidedly at variance with the spirit and provisions of the great institutions of this country. He would maintain that exclusion from political power, and persecution, were not, as some people thought, synonymous terms. In examining the prayer of the petitions presented from the Dissenters in support of this bill, he found them all claiming credit for a belief in Christianity; while he could positively affirm, that some of them were no more entitled to the appellation of Christians, than the followers of Mahomet; indeed, not so much; for while the former denied the existence of Christ, the Mahometan believed in it. He therefore called upon the government and the prelacy to support him in this attempt to uphold the establishment of Christianity.The Earl of Winchilsea
prima facie,133 said, it appeared to him that the state of the question was materially altered since the former amend-
prima facie,133The Bishop of Chester
 thought the amendment unnecessary. It was already provided, that the Declaration should be taken on the faith of a Christian; and he could not conceive how any person who called himself a Christian, could deny that the canonical books of the Old and of the New Testament contained the revealed will of God. The amendment was objectionable on another ground. A Mahometan might subscribe to the Declaration, as the noble earl had worded it; for it was unquestionable, that the Mahometan agreed with the Christian in thinking, that the five books of Moses, and the four Gospels, were composed under the immediate inspiration of God. For these reasons he should object to the amendment, which he did not consider to be so good a Test as that which he had proposed himself.The Bishop of Llandaff
134 said, he had promised their lordships in the committee, that if they would agree to the last clause but one, and to the last clause but two in the bill as they then stood, he would, at a future period, substitute for them clauses of a more definite nature. He now rose to make good that promise. One mode of making that substitution was by naming expressly the different offices of which the holders were not to be required to make the Declaration, Another mode
134The Lord Chancellor
135A. B., said, that he, too, had an amendment to propose. It related to the disposal of patronage in the Church by corporate bodies, and was as follows:—" Whereas, for the clue security of the Church, it is expedient that provision be made for the proper presentation of ecclesiastical benefices belonging to corporations in the kingdom of England and Wales, be it enacted, that from and after the passing of this act, no person, being a member of a corporation, shall present, nominate, or appoint, or take a part in presenting, nominating, or appointing, any clergyman to any ecclesiastical benefice in the gift of the corporation of which he is a member, until he shall make and sub-scribe the following Declaration;' I, 135A. B.,The Earl of Falmouth
136 objected to the clause, as being useless and unnecessary. We had already a much stronger security for it in the subscription to the thirty-nine articles, which every bishop had a right to ask, and in point of fact did ask, from every new incumbent within his diocese. His noble friend had grossly exaggerated the danger likely to accrue to the Church from this measure. No danger could arise from the disposal of Church preferment by corporations, until the Dissenters obtained a majority in those corporations. His noble friend had talked of the principle upon which he rested this amendment. Had his noble friend considered the length
136Lord Ellenborough
137 thought the amendment unnecessary. The noble earl had argued as if the bishops had nothing to do with a new incumbent, but to call for his signature to the thirty-nine articles. Surely the noble earl could not have forgotten that the incumbent presented to the bishop must be an ordained member of the Church of England—that he must have been educated in the Church of England—that he must subscribe to her articles—that he must have been examined by one of her bishops, or his chaplain, as to his fitness for the holy office—and that all this must take place before he was in a situation to receive preferment. The noble earl appeared to him to reason very curiously, from the law which prevented Roman Catholics from presenting to benefices in the Church of England. He said, it was a proof that parliament wished to confine the disposal of the patronage of the Church to those who conformed to its doctrines and worship. Now, he looked upon it in a different light. The strong proof, that parliament marked out the case of the Roman Catholics as peculiar, was to be found in the fact, that it left the disposal of the very same patronage which it took away from the Roman Catholics, in the hands of lay Dissenters. Parliament had made no law of exclusion, on this subject, for the Dissenter; and he would say, that such a law could not be vindicated upon the ground either of justice or expediency. He regarded the law which deprived Roman Catholics of the right of presenting to the benefices which formed part of their estates as a harsh interference with the rights of property, and as a miserable relique of those penal laws which he wished obliterated from the Statute-book. He could not see the likelihood of any danger arising from allowing to Dissenters the right to present to benefices, for the benefices must be bestowed upon the clergy of the Established Church. He would ask the noble lord, whether there had ever come to his knowledge an instance of a Dissenter having exercised his right of presentation, to the disgrace or detriment of the Established Church? If no such
137The Bishop of Llandaff
 said, it was his intention, on the third reading of the bill, to propose another clause. He had upon a former occasion, expressed his dissatisfaction at the present Declaration. As it stood, he considered it utterly unworthy of their lordships. It was now converted into an oath [cries of "no, no,"]: he maintained that it was; for a Declaration solemnly made in the face of God was an oath, even though the words "So help me God" were not attached to it. It was converted, he said, into an oath; and his objection to it was the awkwardness of the situation in which it placed the Dissenters. It was to be administered to all persons upon their admission into civil offices. Now, he calculated that nine-tenths of the persons who would be called upon to take it would be of that description on which it was never intended to be imposed. He should therefore contend, on the principle that the legislature ought not needlessly to multiply oaths, that it was unworthy of the House to frame the Declaration in the invidious form in which it now stood. He had wished their lordships to make the persons who entered upon office declare, "that, so far as concerned the duties of their office, they would respect and maintain the rights and privileges of the Established Church." That Declaration was objected to, 'on account of the inconvenience it was likely to cause to some consciences. He had yielded to the objection, and did not press his amendment. He must, however, say, that all his subsequent impressions confirmed the correctness of his original opinion. The object which he had in view would be obtained by the insertion of a short clause, of which the tenour would be, that those persons who were members of the Church of England should not be called upon to take this Declaration upon their admission into office.The Bishop of Llandaff
 rose to order. The House had left off last night at a part of the clause subsequent to that in which the noble and learned earl now moved to introduce his amendment; it was therefore incompetent for him to make that motion now. He was surprised to hear the learned earl re-assert, that he had not, made his motion last night for the introduction of the words "I am a Protestant" into the Declaration in this clause. How could they tell what had been done but by the records of the House? Now, if a false entry had been made in those records, a great fault had been committed by some person, and it ought to be noticed. He certainly thought that the motion had been made, and his recollection was confirmed by the minutes. In future, he hoped that, to avoid accidents, every motion would be read and put before it was entered on the records of the House. He conceived the House was now bound to proceed to the consideration of that question which was under discussion when they adjourned.Earl Grey
111pro forma, hoped, that the assurance of the learned earl, that he would merely move his amendment 111pro forma,Earl Grey
 said, that the learned earl now offered to withdraw his proposition in compliment to him; but he wanted nothing from the learned earl out of compliment. He repeated, that the proposition could not now be brought forward. He had referred to the printed minutes and they fully bore out what he had said. In those minutes there was this entry:—"It was then moved, that after the word 'that' the words 'I am a Protestant' be inserted; which being put, the further consideration of the motion was adjourned until tomorrow."Earl Grey
121 said, he thought the course which had been taken in that House, on this occasion, tended to repress freedom of discussion, and to enforce this principle, that no noble lord should state his opinions fairly and conscientiously, and, support those opinions by such arguments as he could adduce, provided those high authorities amongst their lordships, for whom no man entertained a more sincere
121The Earl of Guilford
 in a low tone of voice, denied that the petitions presented in favour of the bill merited the reflection cast upon them by the right rev. prelate. He had himself laid one upon the table of a very different tenor; and if it had declared its hostility to the Church, he certainly should have felt considerable reluctance in offering it to the House. On the contrary, it stated, that although the Declaration was unnecessary, they did not object to it, as they were conscious that they harboured no feelings inimical to the establishment. After the luminous and convincing argument of the learned lord on the woolsack, it would be presumption for him to say more, than that he fully concurred in it.The Earl of Carlisle,
126 said, it was proposed to do away with the Sacramental Test, and to substitute in its stead a simple declaration, to be made by all persons who should be appointed to offices where that Test had been hitherto required. Under these circumstances, he could not conceive any solid objection to the amendment proposed by his noble and learned friend. The only objection he had heard was, that it was not only not necessary, but quite superfluous; and it was argued, that after the repeal of the Test act, the declaration against transubstantiation would still remain as a sufficient barrier against the admission of Roman Catholics to office. Now, he would say, that there were many persons who were ready to make the declaration against transubstantiation, but who were still very far from being Protestants, according to the sense of the word in which it was generally understood. He would call the attention of noble lords, who were anxious for the maintenance of an Established Church to this fact. They should recollect that there was an essential difference between a religious society regulated by law, and a religious society which was neither controlled nor regulated by law. This was an important difference. The religious society which was controlled by law, could not do any thing inconsistent with the law; but, on the other hand, the religious society which was not so controlled and regulated, disavowed and disowned all law. He therefore objected to the present bill, because it went to admit to office, and to influential situations, persons who belonged to religious societies that were not regulated by law. That was his argument against the measure. They had upon their table a number of
126Lord Redesdale
130129128127 said, that, after what had been stated by such an authority as the noble lord on the woolsack, he felt it imperative to trespass on their lordships' attention for a few moments. The noble lord had charged him with what he called mischievous conduct on this occasion. He trusted that he had too long engaged the attention of noble lords in that House not to receive from them a patient hearing, while he replied to such a charge, coming from such a place, and such an authority. He would say, that when the noble lord on the woolsack had gone through all the different situations in which he (lord Eldon) had served that House and the country, it would be then imputed to the noble lord with as little reason as it had been imputed to him, that he was pursuing a line of conduct calculated to produce mischievous consequences. He had served his country to the best of his abilities: he had endeavoured to be a useful servant to the coun-
130129128127The Earl of Eldon
115114 wished to be understood as withdrawing these two motions, but not admitting the fact. He would now move, that there be inserted after the words "on the true faith of a Christian," these words, "I am a Protestant." He wished their lordships to understand, that what he was now proposing had relation to the corporations only, and not to offices under the Crown. He also solemnly protested, that he would not make this motion, if he thought that it operated to the prejudice of the claims of the Roman Catholics. What he wished was, that the present bill, if passed, should pass without affecting the Roman Catholic claims one way or the other. His only motive in proposing this amendment was, that if this clause were to be enacted without these words, it would have the effect of materially promoting the views of the Roman Catholics.—He now wished to say a few words again on this subject. The Declaration to which his present amendment referred, had nothing to do with the subsequent part of the bill, with respect
115114The Earl of Eldon
 said, upon his honour, he never did move that amendment. He knew it was so upon the minutes; but he would assert that whoever had placed it there, had done so without being warranted by the fact.The Earl of Eldon
 denied that the House had come to that stage of the bill, in which he had proposed to insert the words "I am a Protestant." On the contrary, a motion was made for the postponement of the further consideration of the report, before he could move the insertion of those words in the Declaration. The noble earl, too, had mistaken what he had stated as to his intention in moving these amendments. He had not said, that he moved them only for the purpose of putting them formally on the Journals; and when that charge had been brought against him last night, he understood that he was entirely acquitted of it. He would be sorry to bring their lordships' proceedings into confusion. No man was more desirous than he was to conform to their orders. He would rather that this faulty, miserable, wretched bill, should pass without any amendment, than be guilty of a breach of the orders of the House. But he maintained that he was not out of order, and that it was fully competent for him to make this motion; and he was the more inclined to persist in making it, after the objections that had been urged against it. He would withdraw his amendment, however, out of compliment to the noble earl; but, on the third reading, he would take the sense of the House upon it.The Earl of Eldon
 would withdraw his motion; but he would repeat, that he had never got to that motion which referred to the introduction of the words "I am a Protestant" into the Declaration. What he had said was, that that amendment ought to be introduced, but he had certainly never made the motion.The Earl of Eldon
 said, he would now move (the clause having been read by the clerk), that instead of the word "declare," the word "swear" be substituted; but he only did so, for the purpose of having such motion entered on the Journals.The Earl of Eldon
110 said, that, having an alteration to propose in the preamble of the second clause, he should move that the following words be left out:—"And whereas the Protestant Episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government, thereof, and the Protestant Presbyterian Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, discipline, and government, thereof, are by the laws of tins realm severally established permanently and inviolably." His
110The Earl of Eldon
169 said, that if the noble and learned lord (Eldon) chose not only to repeat all his former arguments, but even to argue prospectively, no doubt he was at perfect liberty to do so. But the noble and learned lord having done so, and the right rev. prelate having had an opportunity of stating on what ground the rev. bench had acted, nothing could be more convenient than the course recommended by the noble duke. Let him, therefore, now call the attention of their lordships to the motion before them. His noble friend (lord Holland) had stated, that he did not mean to divide the House upon his motion, but that he had made it;
169The Marquis of Lansdowne
162 conceived that these words were perfectly nugatory, so far as the security of the Established Church was concerned. With respect to what the noble baron had said respecting the Jews being affected by these words, it had little weight with him. What were the words? "On the true faith of a Christian." Why might not a Jew make a declaration in these terms? It was not necessary that he should be a Christian to make this declaration. If a Jew made such a declaration, it no more followed that he was a Christian, than it would follow that he (the earl) would be a Jew if he were to declare any thing, "on the true faith of a Jew." Looking at this question as he did at first, he was prepared to agree to the removal of the Test and Corporation acts. It was his full intention to have given his support to any measure founded on the broad basis of liberality to the Dissenters; but he certainly was not prepared to agree to a concession which admitted that it should be a matter of perfect indifference
162The Earl of Winchilsea
166165164163 said:—My lords, although I have already more than once troubled your lordships with my sentiments on the measure now before us, yet during the discussions that have taken place since the second reading of the bill, so many animadversions have been made, not only upon the bill itself, but upon the supporters of it, and especially upon the episcopal bench, that I cannot forbear entreating your lordships' patience for a few minutes, whilst I offer some further explanations as to the conduct I have myself hitherto pursued, and still intend to pursue concerning it.166165164163The Bishop of Durham
159158ad animum deponentis.157 rose to propose an amendment. The Declaration, as it stood at present, commenced in these words:—"I A. B., do solemnly declare, in the presence of God, &c. on the true faith of a Christian." Now, to the previous form of words he did not object; but with respect to the present, he felt it due to that most respectable body of Christians, the Society of Friends, to state, that these words were
159158ad animum deponentis.157Lord Holland
 said, he had not been aware of any such consequences arising from the introduction of the words in question; but although they were now pointed out by the noble lord, he still approved of the words, because it was an acknowledgment, that Christianity constituted part of the law of the land.The Bishop of Llandaff
177176animus imponentis.175 said:—I trust I may be allowed in a few words to explain why I oppose the amendment. I am not disposed to place the Roman Catholics nearer the attainment of the object they have for so many years sought, unless they offer a more substantial security than any they have at present proposed. When your lordships divided on the former occasion, I forbore from voting, because, I must confess, I was in a state of doubt as to the practical effect of the amendment on the political condition of the Roman Catholics. I must acknowledge that I, for one, was perfectly satis-
177176animus imponentis.175The Bishop of Chester
178 said, that nothing could have been further from his intention than to offer himself to the House; but after the right rev. prelate had appealed to the authority of his revered parent, he felt it his duty, to the best of his ability, to rescue his character from the imputation which seemed to rest upon it, if the sentence quoted from his letter was considered alone. If the right rev. prelate had read the whole letter, their lordships would have seen, that his venerated ancestor having been consulted by his gracious sovereign—who reposed such confidence in him, that to him he referred the question, how far he was legally bound by his Coronation oath, not to consent to measures affecting the Established Church—his revered father had given an opinion, in which, while he had advised that every thing consistently with the safety of the Established Church should be granted, for the ease of the tender consciences of the Dissenters, no concession of political power should be made to them. This opinion was expressed as clearly as possible.—The question before the House was simply whether it was fit, in this bill for the relief of the Protestant Dissenters, to insert words to maintain the law as it existed with respect to the Roman Catholics? In point of principle, there could be no doubt they were not admissible into corporations, as their admission would be prejudicial to the interests of both Church and State. All he looked for was the security of the Established Church, which he venerated not only for its spiritual character, but for the political influence it
178Lord Kenyon
 said, he had quoted the words of the illustrious lawyer to whom he had referred, for the purpose of showing that he considered the integrity of the Church of England to consist in the recognition of the doctrine and discipline, and the legalized support of her ministers.The Bishop of Chester
 said, the question in this case was not one of law, but rather as to the theological interpretation of the Oath of Supremacy, which must be taken by all those entering corporations. Now, upon that point, he believed he was right in asserting, that it was the opinion of almost the whole of that bench, that the Oath of Supremacy formed a sufficient barrier against the introduction of Roman Catholics.The Bishop of Llandaff
184In vision beatific."Than aught divine or holy else enjoyedThe riches of Heaven's pavement, trodden gold,Were always downward bent, admiring more"——looks and thoughts183182181180 said: My lords, I rise for the purpose of proposing an amendment to the present bill, as far as regards those who are to be called upon
184In vision beatific."Than aught divine or holy else enjoyedThe riches of Heaven's pavement, trodden gold,Were always downward bent, admiring more"——looks and thoughts183182181180The Bishop of Llandaff
 said, he should vote against the clause, as it was in direct contradiction to the whole character and principle of the measure. The principle of the bill was to unite those persons who had been divided, and this amendment went to keep up that division. He objected that, in the very marriage articles, there should be included an article for separate maintenance. This amendment would strip the measure of all its grace and all its advantages, and he therefore trusted it would be rejected.Lord Holland
185 said, he
185The Bishop of Bath and Wells
 said, he was desirous of expressing his sentiments on the bill then under consideration, and trusted that the House would allow him to place his opinion upon record; which he thought it the more incumbent upon him to do, after his long absence from the country. In carrying his intention into effect, he begged to say, that it was with unfeigned reluctance he found himself compelled to dissent from the noble duke, in the view which he took of the measure then before the House. He never felt more concerned at any circumstance than at that of being obliged to oppose a bill, which had the noble duke's support and approbation. Nothing but a conscientious feeling of the rectitude of the course he was then taking, could induce him to pursue it, opposed as it was to that adopted by the noble duke. But having now for one and thirty years followed one undeviating line of conduct, in relation to the established constitution and church of the country, he found it impossible to depart from it; and considering, as he did, the present measure favourable to neither, he must be permitted again to express his dissent from it.The Duke of Cumberland
186 rose to say a word or two in consequence of what had fallen from a right rev. prelate. He merely wished to remark, that, early in the present session, he had presented a petition from the corporation of London, in which the Sacramental Test had been alluded to, as exposed to profanation when used as a religious rite to promote civil qualification. That sentiment, which was both true and just, had been since re-echoed from all sides of the House, but from no quarter so
186The Earl of Darnley
 said, that in performing the pleasing duty of moving "that this bill do pass," he could not refrain from expressing his feelings in language both of gratitude and congratulation—gratitude to that House, for the manner in which it had discharged its duty to the country, and congratulation to the country upon the achievement of so glorious a result.Lord Holland
 felt it his duty to oppose the present bill, which was calculated to endanger the Established Church, and to let loose upon the country, with power to do mischief to its institutions, large classes of Socinians, and others, who could not be denominated the supporters of true Christianity, The bill was then passed.The Earl of Mountcashel
 said, he should support the clause, although it did not come up to his opinion as to what should have been the leading principle of the bill.The Bishop of Bristol
174ex confesso,173 said, that as the noble and learned lord had not enforced his proposition by any new argument, he should not be justified in detaining their lordships at any great length. He was anxious for the success of the present measure, and he wished that the grounds on which he supported it should be fairly and properly stated. That support was founded on the same principle which he had advanced, this day, on presenting a petition to their lordships. He was anxious, above all things, on the one hand, in effecting the object of the present bill, which he had much at heart, that no advantage should be taken of it, with reference to the success of any other measure; while, on the other, he hoped that any amendment which seemed to cast the slightest suspicion on their lordships' motives, or which seemed, in any degree, to prejudge another great question, should be rejected. If the words "I am a Protestant" had been originally introduced into the Declaration in the other House of Parliament—if, without being the subject of discussion, it had formed part of the bill when it came up to their lordships' House—he, in that case, should have opposed any amendment moved for the purpose of altering it. But the circumstances were perfectly different, and he could see no use whatever in inserting in the bill the words now proposed. What was the state of the bill? It might be considered presumption for him to declare his opinion on its provisions, when the two greatest law authorities in the House had already given theirs. He would take either of their opinions, and still, whichever he adopted, he felt himself justified in supporting the bill in its present state. If his noble and learned friend on the woolsack were correct in his opinion, then it was impossible that any tiling could be more decidedly unnecessary than the amendment; because, according to his statement, the Declaration against transubstantiation must be taken by those who had any connexion with the government of corporations. Here then was an efficient security.
174ex confesso,173The Earl of Harrowby
172171170 said, that, whatever might be said to the contrary, it must be admitted that this was a revolutionary
172171170The Earl of Guilford
 took a review of the circumstances under which measures founded upon the same principle, and urged by the same reasons, had, in former times, received the concurrence of parliament, and eventually exposed both church and state to extreme jeopardy. "When he looked at the safeguard which they were about to repeal, and the substitute they proposed in its place, he could not help being struck with its utter insufficiency, and protesting, in the strongest manner, against the enactment of such a measure.Lord Redesdale
161 said, that no man would deny that the Established Church and the civil state formed together the constitution of this country. That was a proposition which not only Christians but Jews admitted, and he requested their lordships to bear it in mind. His noble friend (lord Holland) commenced his speech by hinting some propostion with regard to the Quakers: and here he must do his noble friend the justice to say, that he had told him (lord Eldon) last session, that he hoped the time would come when he should never more hear of the word toleration. Now, in the Toleration act itself, the Quakers were required to express a belief in the doctrine of the Trinity. But it seemed that Jews had now been rendered capable of participating in the civil government of this country. Some of their lordships were old enough to remember the result of an attempt of that kind formerly. He requested their lordships would be so kind as to feel a little for those who felt that the doctrines of the Established Church were the doctrines of true Christianity. Let it be remembered, that the Jews were here and there and every where, and yet they were no where; and that they were a people whom their lordships did not acknowledge. But there was no denying that a Jew was as capable as any other man of filling a civil office. That, however, was not the principle on which their lordships acted. If they were to legislate on this principle, that a state had no right to inquire into the religious feelings of a man before he was admitted a member of a governing community, there would be an end to the foundation on which the constitution of this country rested. He considered this Declaration quite insufficient; because any man who took office might say, he was not doing any thing "by virtue of his office" to overturn the Established Church; what he did would be by virtue of his conscience, and its dictates would lead him to do every thing in his power to overturn the ecclesiastical establishment to which he was opposed.—After his noble friend's motion was disposed of, he would move the introduction of the words "and that I am a Protestant," and take the opinion of the House upon it. Their monarch was called to the throne to
161The Earl of Eldon
 said, he had in a former stage of the bill proposed an amendment similar to this, and should therefore vote for the present clause.The Earl of Eldon
 said, that his opinion, that the Oath of Supremacy was not a sufficient security, was confirmed by the judgment of the House on more than one occasion. He also complained, that the recital of the bill upon the table was most insidious, and omitted the most important words of the two acts from which it professed to be copied: namely, those in which the inviolability of "the true Protestant Religion as established by law was affirmed." It was to secure that "true Protestant religion," in the bill under consideration, that he should divide the House upon his amendment.The Earl of Eldon
167 assured the right rev. prelate that the manner in which he had spoken of him, coming as it did from so valuable a quarter, gave him the greatest comfort and consolation. He must, however, say, that not a syllable had fallen
167The Earl of Eldon
160 said, that as it was so much the object of parliament to give relief to all classes of his majesty's subjects, he was disposed to support in principle the motion of the noble lord, by introducing a proviso permitting the Jews to omit these words. To this he saw no objection. If they had heretofore admitted any Jews to occupy offices, it would be a monstrous thing now to exclude them, by means of a bill which had for its, object to give tolera-
160Lord Bexley
168 said, it was his wish to confine himself to the discussion of the question actually before their lordships. But, first of all, he must assure the right rev. prelate, that if this was merely an incipient measure—that if it was intended to be followed up by any other measure—he was no party to any such plan. He had supported the measure, not because he wished to destroy the present system of laws; but because he believed it to be essential to the preservation of the peace of the Established Church, and of the religious peace of the country. In order that they might not have the same ground to go over another year, he had determined at once to give the measure all the support in his power during the present session. And now, for the question before their lordships. It was proposed that the words "on the true faith of a Christian "should be left out of the Declaration with the view of admitting the Jews to office. For his own part, he did not believe it to be the intention of the law that Jews should, be so admitted: he did, not believe that it was the intention of
168The Duke of Wellington
179 said, the learned lord had just told them, that parliament had frequently decided that the Oath of Supremacy was not a sufficient security against the Roman Catholics. But the learned lord had not stated, that the Oath of Supremacy was altered by the act
179The Duke of Wellington
 disapproved of the clause. He did not see why a Roman Catholic might not obtain admission to a corporation, if so simple a declaration as that proposed by the right rev. prelate were only put to him.The Duke of Wellington
198s.197 rose to move the second reading of the bill for the Regulation of County Lunatic Asylums. He said, that the bill was a consolidation of seven different acts of parliament, and contained very few additional enactments. The object of it was to give
198s.197The Earl of Malmesbury
 said, he felt great satisfaction at the measure proposed by the noble earl, as he had been an eye-witness of the shocking and revolting abuses alluded to by that noble lord, and against the future commission of which he hoped the present bill would afford a full security.Lord Calthorpe
 said, he hoped the House would limit the power of magistrates as to confining lunatics. The effects of confinement in some cases were most injurious; and the suffering which unhappy beings underwent, in their lucid intervals, in consequence of such confinement, were calculated to destroy all chance of recovery.The Marquis of Salisbury
238 said, he was not surprised that the petitioners prayed that there might be no increase of duty on
238The Earl of Malmesbury
 thought, that the representations of these petitioners would not justify their lordships in withholding that fair inquiry to which the agriculturists were entitled.The Earl of Malmesbury
primâ facie said, that the trade had decreased since the low duty. The alteration, therefore, had injured the manufacturers, decreased the revenue, and ruined the agriculturists. If ever a primâ facieThe Marquis of Salisbury
And shew the heavens more just."That thou mayest shake the superflux to them,Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,Too little care of this! take physic Pomp!"Oh we have ta'en251"panem et aquam natura desiderat,"250249l.l.248247246l.245244"The irresistible tide of emigration from Ireland towards these countries has already set in, and has been materially facilitated by steam navigation, so much so that the credulity of the most ignorant will soon be convinced that six or seven millions of people, with all their natural powers and great energies of mind, will not much longer suffer without making an effort to find better quarters. Every year it is ascertained, that increasing thousands are coming over, and in a short time it is to be apprehended that, driven by want, and aided as they now are by the subscriptions of the richer classes in Ireland, they will come over in hordes, like the Goths and Vandals of other times, and make a settlement in this country, where they hope their labour will be duly rewarded, and from which no act of parliament will be able to dislodge them. By competition for employment they will defeat every humane effort, to keep up the present condition of the labourers of England. Their necessities will oblige them to work for half the usual wages of labour in this country; the English workman must either work for the same rate, or he will not get employment; he is thus thrown on the poor-rates for parish allowance, and in this way is the burthen of supporting the Irish poor put upon the parishes."243242eo intuitu,241240 then rose to bring forward the motion, of which he had given notice, for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the State of the Distressed Population of Ireland. He was aware that he could command but little attention from their lordships, even on a subject of the greatest importance; but he felt, on the present occasion, that he laboured under much greater difficulties than usual, and nothing short of a sense of paramount duty, could induce him to trespass on their lordships' attention. Among the difficulties under which he laboured was that of bringing the leading features of the subject under their lordships' notice without fatiguing them with
And shew the heavens more just."That thou mayest shake the superflux to them,Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,Too little care of this! take physic Pomp!"Oh we have ta'en251"panem et aquam natura desiderat,"250249l.l.248247246l.245244"The irresistible tide of emigration from Ireland towards these countries has already set in, and has been materially facilitated by steam navigation, so much so that the credulity of the most ignorant will soon be convinced that six or seven millions of people, with all their natural powers and great energies of mind, will not much longer suffer without making an effort to find better quarters. Every year it is ascertained, that increasing thousands are coming over, and in a short time it is to be apprehended that, driven by want, and aided as they now are by the subscriptions of the richer classes in Ireland, they will come over in hordes, like the Goths and Vandals of other times, and make a settlement in this country, where they hope their labour will be duly rewarded, and from which no act of parliament will be able to dislodge them. By competition for employment they will defeat every humane effort, to keep up the present condition of the labourers of England. Their necessities will oblige them to work for half the usual wages of labour in this country; the English workman must either work for the same rate, or he will not get employment; he is thus thrown on the poor-rates for parish allowance, and in this way is the burthen of supporting the Irish poor put upon the parishes."243242eo intuitu,241240The Earl of Darnley
d.s.l.253That is your resting place, and this is mine.""We all are equal; for my lot is thine;l.252 rose to oppose the motion, as he was apprehensive that the whole end and purpose of the noble lord, was to introduce the Poor-laws into Ireland; than which no measure could be more pregnant with mischief. He would appeal to the noble lords around him, many of whom were well acquainted with Ireland, whether they recognised any similitude to the original, in the highly-coloured caricature which the noble mover had presented to their view? At the opening of his address, the noble lord had stated, that it was not his wish to import the Poor-laws into Ireland, in the full rigour in which they were administered in this country; but the noble earl's speech, like many other noxious things, carried a sting in its tail, and closed, by boldly avowing that he wanted a general assessment of the property in Ireland, for the maintenance of the poor. The noble earl had described people falling down in the streets and highways for mere want of food; but the same thing not unfrequently happened in England, and could form no sufficient reason for inflicting the system of the Poor-
d.s.l.253That is your resting place, and this is mine.""We all are equal; for my lot is thine;l.252The Earl of Limerick
254, in opposing the motion, hoped it would not be understood that he meant to deny the existence of great distress in Ireland. He believed that much distress did exist in that country, and he should be most happy to lend his aid to any plan which seemed calculated
254The Earl of Longford
257imperium in imperio256fac simile255 said, that with his knowledge of the noble earl's being one of the best absentee landlords—but still an absentee—he could not help considering much of what the noble earl had advanced as theoretical, and therefore to be received with due caution. He concurred in the correctness of the statement, that much misery existed in Ireland; but in the noble earl's explanation of the cause of that misery he certainly could not agree. He therefore should state his opinion on the subject as clearly as a long practical experience would enable him. It was not necessary for him to enter into a view of the general state of Ireland: such an examination would open a vast field of discussion, and he should therefore avoid it; The whole bearing of the present discussion might be compressed into one narrow point—the extreme poverty and distress of the people of Ireland. Many causes were assigned for that distress, and numerous recipes were prescribed for the cure of the
257imperium in imperio256fac simile255Viscount Lorton
 opposed the motion. He observed, that the Catholic rent was principally collected from the poorest of the people, and if relief were generally extended to them, it would only enable the Catholic Association to take more money out of their pockets. He also opposed it, because it would tend to depreciate the value of land in Ireland; which already did not fetch more than half the price that it fetched in England. The people of Ireland did not require so much relief as was imagined: they were more prone to idleness, and were more easily satisfied than the people of England: give them their potatoes and their dirty cabins, and they thought they had got enough. With regard to the sick and aged, the bounty of private individuals had raised up numerous dispensaries, hospitals, &c. for their relief.The Earl of Mountcashel
260 said, that perceiving the feelings of the noble duke, and that they were concurred in by many noble lords connected with Ireland, he felt that he ought not pertinaciously to press his motion. He had not a better opinion of the Catholic religion than other noble lords opposite; but he did not think that a constant vituperation of that re-
260The Earl of Darnley
 rose to postpone his motion for referring the Petitions of the Wool-growers to a Committee of Inquiry, until Monday.The Duke of Richmond
 said, he could conceive that the inquiry might be beneficial, although it led to levying no additional duty. He would suppose, as there were large tracts of poor land in this country, on which the short-woolled sheep were now reared, that it should be made out before the committee, that the price of short wool could not pay them; they might be induced to cultivate sheep with long wool, and of the market for that they had a monopoly. The wool-growers came to them in a respectful manner; and were they to be turned away without inquiry? He called upon their lordships to allow the agriculturists to prove their case; and if it should turn out not to be a strong one, he would pledge himself to vote against it.The Duke of Richmond
 presented a petition from several merchants of London, who were not importers of foreign wool, but who prayed that no further duty might be levied on the importation of foreign wool.The Earl of Harewood
 disclaimed, on the part of the petitioners, any wish, in asking their lordships not to go into an inquiry, to prevent the complaints of the opposite petitioners being heard. They had other reasons for their petition. Their lordships were, he was afraid, not aware of the excessive mischief which was done to the manufacturer and merchant by-instituting an inquiry into all the minute details of their business. By that means many things were made known which were injurious to them. The simple meaning of the petition which he had presented was this:—after the lapse of a considerable time, the woollen manufactures were gradually reviving, under a duty of one penny upon the importation of foreign wool. The dismay talked of by the petitioners was the dismay which would be introduced into large manufacturing districts by the agitation of the subject; and they prayed their lordships not to go into a committee, in order to place an additional tax on foreign wool, as the experiment had been tried and had failed. The petitioners therefore simply said, that as the experiment had been tried and failed, they deprecated going into a committee of inquiry, where examinations would be taken and reported all over the world, throwing dismay into the minds of those engaged in the woollen trade, at the very moment when that trade was reviving.The Earl of Harewood
 said, that as it was now declared, that ministers would not consent to any augmentation of duty, it would be losing time to go into a committee. Noble lords were mistaken, if they supposed inquiries of that kind did no I harm. Many of their lordships lived at a great distance from the manufacturing districts, and had no idea of the distress and alarm occasioned by a mention even of altering the duty.Lord Wharncliffe
239 said, he would give his consent to a committee of inquiry, on the very grounds stated by the noble lord—namely, on purpose to enter into a fair inquiry of the cause of depression of the wool-growers, but by no means with the intention of following that inquiry up by laying a duty on the imported article. His own opinion was, that the causes of
239The Duke of Wellington
259258 said, that before he proceeded to the question, he begged to assure their lordships that he was thoroughly convinced, that no part of his majesty's dominions so imperiously required the particular attention of his majesty's servants as Ireland did. The noble earl had stated, that there were in Ireland eight millions of people, the situation of six millions of whom demanded inquiry. He had told their lordships likewise, that all the wealth of Ireland was not sufficient to give employment to those people. Now, certainly, he could not but think that this was an exaggerated statement. It could I not be the fact, that there were six millions of the Irish population who required employment: but he could see no use for an inquiry into that part of this subject; because it was well known, from the evidence which the House already had before it, that the poor of Ireland did suffer very considerable distress. But, it was not true that they suffered this distress at all times: it was not true that they suffered the same degree of distress in different years; but it
259258The Duke of Wellington
281280 said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the bill, but relating as it did to a matter with which he had long been particularly conversant, and having as yet had no opportunity of remarking upon it during the present session, he felt desirous of addressing a few words to their lordships on the subject then under consideration. He rejoiced that he had been no party to the bill for two reasons: first, because he did not stand committed to the proposal of a measure which fell short of what he, consistently with his declared opinions, should have thought it his duty to recommend. He rejoiced, secondly, because, being no party to the bill, he could freely give its promoters that applause to which their labours so justly entitled them. In fact, much of that which, in his opinion, was due from the legislature to the public, respecting the Game laws, was attained by this bill.—Much concession was made of an exclusive privilege voluntarily, which as it had been lawfully, however unjustly, possessed, it became an act of liberality to surrender.—He rejoiced especially, that this proposed surrender originated with the aristocratical part of the legislature, remembering that nothing less "than a revolution forced similar privileges from the aristocracy of France. It was happy for the country, and highly creditable to those noble lords whose labours had produced this bill, that so much of the public odium would at length be removed from laws, which odium in fact, had rendered them ineffectual. In their present state, they were a disgrace to any free country, and from their oppressive and unjust nature, they were calculated to augment the evil which they were intended to repress. Inquiry after inquiry had been instituted for the purpose of ascertaining the cause of the increase of poaching, and the most whimsical reasons had been assigned for it. Doubtless many circumstances might have combined to increase the number of violators of these
281280Lord Suffield
 was at issue with the learned lord as to the origin of the Game-laws. They originated in an act of Richard 2nd, which professed to be "an act for the better regulation of his Majesty's subjects, and for sending them to church;" but it was in reality intended as a pretence for disarming the subject. So far it certainly was, as the learned lord called it, a law of police. Its object was a political one.Lord Suffield
l.l.287battûe286 gave the noble lord, who had devoted so many years to the consideration of this subject, great credit for the pains he had bestowed upon it; but he could not agree with him in the view he took of it. He considered this to be a perfectly new bill. He knew that their lordships were prejudiced against the present system, because the increase of poaching was attributed to the existing laws; but the evidence before the committee would not bear out this position. His lordship here referred to the witnesses called before the committee. There was, however, another description of persons, whose evidence he should have wished had come before the committee. He meant the persons, magistrates and others, who resided in places where the greatest number of commitments had taken place. In one county, for instance, there had been more commitments under the Game-laws than in all the other counties in England put together; and he must say, that he regretted the absence of this local information before the committee of their lordships. There was an hon. friend of his, the member for Oxford, who was chairman of the quarter-sessions in Wiltshire, and who, he believed, was not a sportsman. Now this gentleman must be aware of the description of persons who had been brought before him, and could have given the committee very valuable information. He
l.l.287battûe286The Earl of Malmesbury
288 said, that if that were the case, he thought the clause extremely objectionable. His noble friend had said, that no qualification was necessary in Scotland: but what said the lord Advocate? He did not say, that there would be greater litigation under the system of law in England than under the system of law in Scotland; but that the law of Scotland had not been productive of a great extent of litigation. As to the poulterers, as soon as they found that qualified persons were undersold by the poachers, they would buy of the latter in preference to the former. Then the part of the bill which made game found on unqualified persons seizable would be pro-
288The Earl of Malmesbury
289 contended, that the evils complained of resulted from the Game-laws, rather than from want of employment. The greatest outrages which had been committed did not occur in places where the labourers were out of employment, nor in the agricultural districts; but in manufacturing parts, and where there was no want of employment. That proved to him, that the chief inducement to poaching did not arise from the scarcity of employment, but it resulted from the law which forbad the sale of game, and the demand created by those who were possessed of the means of purchasing every thing legally except game. It was clear that while that demand existed, it would be supplied by persons who could not resist the temptation of profit. It was also proved before the committee, that it was far more easy to get juries to convict poachers in agricultural parts, where the want of employment existed than in the manufacturing parts of the country, where it appeared that persons, who were not in want, committed the greatest outrages. He thought this a proof of the subversion of feeling produced by the Game-laws. Where the plea of poverty existed, no favour was shown; but, towards the individuals who had no such plea, and were only actuated by a desire to supply, for their own profit, the demands of the rich, favour was extended. The evidence before their lordships was decisive of the badness of these laws; and proved that, if game were allowed to be sold, it would diminish the inducements to
289Lord Calthorpe
 objected to it, but especially to that part of it which related to coursing, which would open a wide, field for poachers. Of course they had a right to suppose that none but respectable persons would be found following game on horseback; but the clause was worded in such a way as might give rise to a point, of law. Suppose an individual, when following game on horseback, happened to be thrown from his horse, would he not then be placed in the situation of a trespasser?The Earl of Malmesbury
 said, the object of the clause was to allow persons who had raised game on his ground, for instance, to follow it on the next estate.Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that these words were inserted at the suggestion of an eminent lawyer. According to his own conception, if there were six joint tenants, they would all be qualified, so far as the land in which they had an interest was concerned.Lord Wharncliffe
285284l.283l.prima facie,282 said, it now became his duty to endeavour to show the House, that the qualification system proposed by this bill never could have the effect which was apprehended—and which nobody would more deeply lament than himself—of driv-
285284l.283l.prima facie,282Lord Wharncliffe
 said, that the Game-laws were originally laws of police. There were formerly large tracts of land in this country frequented by freebooters, such as Robin Hood and his company, and those laws were made for the purpose of putting-down bodies of that description. The country was now in a totally different condition. With respect to the sale of game, it seemed absurd to give a man leave to do that which you could not prevent his doing. But as it was impossible to prevent it, he was friendly to this bill, so far as it related to the sale of game. Neither had he any objection to give a man a right to kill game on his own land; but he could not see why it was to be limited to persons holding ten or more contiguous acres. Why was a man, because half his land happened to be on one side of the road and half on the other, to be in a worse situation than he whose land was all on the one side? In his opinion, every man who held land ought to have the right of killing game upon it.Lord Redesdale
prima facie said, that the committee was proposed to be appointed for the satisfaction of the wool-growers; and persons who came to the legislature with so strong a prima facieLord Ellenborough
345 said, he held in his hand a petition from the Roman Catholics of Newport in the county of Mayo. The petition complained of the distinction made by the law between themselves and other loyal subjects. Nothing could be more reasonable than the prayer of the petitioners; and it must be highly satisfactory to every liberal mind to observe, that there was a sincere disposition in both Houses of parliament to pay attention to the subject. In all classes, with the exception of a few ultra-Tories, there was an anxious wish for the total abolition of all penalties and disabilities on account of religious opinions. When that wish should be carried generally into effect, the hearts of all his majesty's subjects, of every denomination, would be united as one man; and could any one venture to say, that such a union would not add to the security of the Established Church more than any test or declaration which could be enacted? He had also two other petitions to present, signed by many respectable Roman Catholics of Norwich. A residence of twenty-three years in that city, and a personal acquaintance with many of the petitioners, enabled him to say, that men of more exemplary conduct were no where to be found; and, to use their own language, they yielded to no men in a sincere and unshaken love for the constitution. They could not, therefore, but feel much hurt at being considered as objects of suspicion; but the time was approaching, he was happy to say, when greater attention would be paid to their merits. It appeared to
345The Bishop of Norwich
348 said, that to show the falling-off which had taken place in the trade since the duty had been taken off, he would state the number of yards exported during the last ten years. During the first five years of that period there were thirty-five millions and odd; and during the latter five years there were only thirty-four millions and odd. He stated tins to show, that the wool-growers laboured under a grievance; and if he succeeded in proving that a grievance existed, then a remedy might be considered. Now one cause of the grievance to which he referred was this: it appeared on the face of the return of the quantity of foreign wool imported during the last nine years, that for the first three the quantity was forty-two millions; during the next three, it was sixty-one millions; and in the last three years, it increased to eighty-nine millions. Now, such an advance in the import of foreign wool was truly alarming, particularly as there had been a proportionate decrease in the exports. He was one of those who considered the interests of the agriculturist and the manufacturer dentified, particularly in the state of the
348The Earl of Malmesbury
prima facie346d.d.d.d.d. said, that in rising to move for a Committee to inquire into the state of the Wool-trade, he was satisfied he should be able to lay a case before their lordships which called for inquiry. He would begin with the year 1819, in which a duty of 6prima facie346d.d.d.d.d.The Duke of Richmond
347 said, he was ready to admit, that the woollen trade, both in long wool and in short, laboured under considerable pressure, and that the exports did not keep pace with what they had been in former times; but was he to conclude from that, that no advantage accrued to the agriculturists from taking off the duty? Supposing that the woollen manufacturers abroad were competing with
347The Earl of Harewood
d.d.d.,s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.349 said, he would have no objection to the appointment of a committee, if his noble friends would be satisfied with inquiry; but he knew they expected that the result would be an increase of duty. Now, was this right or wrong? He would say it was the duty of government to ascertain whether or not there existed any grievance. They had a board of Trade too: that was open to this inquiry, and they might say whether or not it was right to impose any further duty on this article. An inquiry at present would completely unhinge the manufacturers. The agitation of the question had excited a great ferment already; and if ever there was a moment when the bringing it forward was more inconvenient than another, it was at this particular period, when the manufacturers were just sending off to the continent. The effect of it visited every cottage in those districts: there was not an individual who would not feel it. However, if they did go into an inquiry, he should be able to show, that there never was a greater fallacy than the grounds on which his noble friends proceeded. In his opinion, the more wool that came into the country, the better for the English wool-grower. The Southdown wool had become so deteriorated, that it could not be used without being mixed with foreign wool; and a great change in the manufacture of cloth had taken place on the continent. If we, therefore, did not make finer cloths, we should have no chance of a market for them. It had now become the fashion to wear foreign wool; nay, our servants were nothing else. He saw the smile of triumph in which his noble friends indulged, but
d.d.d.,s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.s.349Lord Wharncliffe
350 was decidedly opposed to the opinion, that the committee should sit merely for the purpose of satisfying the agriculturists that nothing could be done for them. Throughout the country there was the growth of three or four years on hand, for which no price could be ob-
350Lord Redesdale
 said, that as he did not mean to object to the motion of his noble friend, he did not feel himself called upon to follow him through the details into which he had entered. He considered it but just, when a number of persons came to that House and complained of the great inconvenience under which they laboured, in consequence of the state of the wool-trade, that the House should grant the inquiry which they sought. But although he was willing to consent to an inquiry, he was bound to say, that, having himself made inquiries in other quarters, he was satisfied that this committee, if granted, would not end in affording the relief which his noble friend sought. He would consent to an inquiry respecting long wool as well as short; not that he thought there was any ground of complaint laid with respect to the former, but he would allow an inquiry to be gone into as to both; because, as it was not his intention to impose any additional tax upon this article, he wished to show that there was no ground of complaint whatever on the subject. He was much mistaken if the result of the inquiry would not convince his noble friend, that there existed no ground for this complaint.The Duke of Wellington
361 merely wished to say, that his noble friend who had brought the measure in its original state before their lordships, had brought it forward as a temporary measure,—a bill to continue two years,—to try whether the sale of game would produce any effect on the crime of poaching. Whatever objections he might have had to that bill, he should nevertheless have given his assent to it as an experiment; but since the bill had been first brought forward, an alliance had taken place between his noble friend and another noble lord, in consequence of which the bill had been totally altered. He confessed he could not consider, that facilitating the disposal of game would diminish the crime of poaching. Under the existing law, a person might be seized, and was liable to conviction, for having game in his possession; but under the present act, with all the precaution which his noble friend had used, a man having ten acres of land might sanction any one for having game in his possession. In his opinion, the measure would operate very much to disturb society, and produce litigation. For, in districts where property was divided among a number of tenants, and where each began to be a game-preserver, what would be the result? There would immediately spring up a great deal of jealousy: the farmers would be out at night looking after the game when they ought to be in their beds, and, instead of going on with the plough, they would be running to see who was shooting at what would not be game, but property; for it became a question of pounds, shillings, and pence. With respect to their lordships' tenants, in how different a light would they see their lordships going over their farms to what they did before? They used to be glad to see their lordships amuse themselves, as they always got a share in the amusement: but how different would be the case, when any of their lordships, after having killed ten head of game,
361The Earl of Malmesbury
364363362 said, he was one of those who sincerely supported the present measure, with the deep conviction that the subject was peculiarly entitled to the attention of their lordships, as affecting the morals of the country from one end to the other. He hoped their lordships were aware, as he was sure they ought to be, that they were dealing with the question at a time when, from some cause or other, there had been an increase of crime, progressively advancing in this country, of a nature most appalling to every man who felt an interest in the religion, morality, and prosperity, of the country; which prosperity depended on the presence of religion and morality. Their lordships were dealing with a measure at a time when, by the returns recently made up in the public offices, it appeared that the amount of committals in England and Wales last year exceeded by one-hundred and seventy the amount of committals in the preceding year; and not only that, but it exceeded, by a third or a fourth, the amount of the committals on the average of six years. He knew that the noble earl, who was much alive to these considerations, was of opinion that the extent of poaching and the system of the Game-laws had no connexion with that state of things. If he looked at the state of the country generally—if he went into the prisons, his noble friend would find, that though all other crimes had increased, the crime of poaching had increased in an infinitely greater proportion than any others. He would refer particularly to the northern part of Wiltshire. In the House of Correction in Devises, he found, in February 1827, that one hundred persons, out of two hundred and twenty-seven, had been committed to that gaol for offences against the Game-laws. He had thought it possible that this might have arisen from accidental circumstances, and he had, therefore, taken the
364363362The Marquis of Lansdowne
s.s.365 contended that, whether they passed the bill or not, it would be impossible to prevent the sale of game; and in proof of his argument, he referred to the evidence of a man before the committee, from which it appeared that that individual had sold nineteen thousand head of game in one year alone. The question was, then, whether or not it was fit to maintain a law which could not be enforced. The only effect of so doing would be, to destroy all respect for the laws generally, but more especially for the laws connected with this subject. With respect to the clauses proposed by his noble friend (lord Wharncliffe), he thought they would tend to diminish the crime of poaching, and facilitate the detection of crime when it was committed, by giving a greater number of persons an interest in the preservation of the game. His noble friend near him (lord Malmesbury) was mistaken in attributing the increase of poaching to the operation of those causes to which he ascribed the depression of agricultural property. The persons who were most frequently engaged in the offence of poaching
s.s.365Lord Goderich
 agreed that a man ought not to suffer as great a punishment for a first offence as for a repetition of it; but then he thought that his noble friend had gone into the opposite extreme; He should prefer, that, instead of three months, the first offence should be punished with six months imprisonment and hard labour; and the second with twelve months. The third he should leave as it was, namely, rendering the offender liable to transportation.The Marquis of Salisbury
367 was favourable to the principle of taking security, in preference to extending the term of imprisonment; and he also thought that a great deal of good might be done by allowing poachers the option, under given circumstances, of volunteering into the army, instead of undergoing punishment. Many a man, who was an idle or dissolute labourer, under different control would
367The Earl of Carnarvon
 thought that three was the number which should constitute a gang: three was the number which the law held necessary to constitute a riot. He was opposed to the clause for allowing the poacher an option how he would be tried. It would be better, he thought, to leave the word "poaching" out of the bill altogether. The words "destroying game," included all that was necessary.Lord Tenterden
 agreed to give up the clause as to the option, and the word "poaching," if the noble lord desired it; but he differed from the noble marquis entirely upon the subject of the duration of the imprisonment. It was certainly the policy of the law to mark its disposition to punish the offence of the poacher at first lightly, and to increase its severity as his habits of crime became confirmed.Lord. Wharncliffe
l.l. said, that he thought the offender himself in 10l.l.The Marquis of Salisbury
 said, that by a law recently passed, the levy in such cases was made easier; and he fixed the security low purposely, in order to enable the poorer people to obtain it.Lord Wharncliffe
596 said, it had been contended, that the crime of poaching would be diminished by legalizing the sale of game. He, however, still entertained the opinion which he held last year, that such a measure would have a contrary effect. He was convinced, that the greater the facility which was given for the disposal of property stolen, the more would that property be stolen. He could not agree in the opinion that the great increase of crime was owing to the game-laws, because it would be found that crime had increased in those districts where there were no game-preserves, in the same proportion as in those where
596The Earl of Winchelsea
argumentum ad verecundiam, thought the principle upon which the bill was framed was the right one. He could not agree with his noble friend, that making game saleable, would increase poaching, any more than that the taking the duty off tobacco would increase smuggling. The present law was violated, not only by persons of low condition, but by titled gentlemen, and he put it as an argumentum ad verecundiam,The Earl of Darnley
 accompanied by several members of the House of Commons, brought up the following message:—"My Lords—I am desired by the Commons to state, that they desire a conference with your lordships on the subject of the laws affecting his majesty's Roman Catholic Subjects in Great Britain and Ireland, with a view to such final and conciliatory adjustment, as may be conducive to the peace and strength of the United Kingdom, to the stability of the Protestant establishment, and to the general satisfaction and concord of all classes of his majesty's subjects." On the motion of the earl of Shaftesbury, the members of the House of Commons were informed, that their Lordships would send an answer to the Commons by a messenger of their own. On the motion of the duke of Wellington, their lordships agreed to the proposed conference, and appointed Monday, at half-past five o'clock, for the same.Sir F. Burdett,
 then stated, that he had gone to the Painted Chamber, and met there Sir F. Burdett and other members of the House of Commons, who, in the name of the whole House, delivered into his hand the paper he now held, which he begged might be read by the clerk at the table.Earl Bathurst
 said, that not having understood it to be the intention of any noble lord to propose any day upon which to take into consideration the communication from the Commons, he rose for the purpose of moving that the resolution be taken into consideration on Friday, the 30th inst.The Marquis of Lansdowne
768 thought it
768The Duke of Wellington
 said, that though some noble lords might wish for an early day, yet he, in common with other noble lords, felt he had a duty to perform in a very high quarter, to which he, and other noble lords probably, thought it their duty to attend. Under these circumstances, he hoped that Monday the 9th of June, might be fixed upon.The Marquis of Cleveland
771770769 rose for the purpose of once more offering to their lordships' consideration, a Petition from the great body of the Roman Catholics of England, praying for restoration to a full enjoyment of the rights of the constitution. The petitioners presented their claims to their lordships' consideration, on the strong ground that they had done nothing to merit exclusion. The petitioners humbly offered to their lordships' consideration,—and they appealed to the best periods of history as proofs of their assertion,—that with respect to them no paramount political necessity for such exclusion existed. They appealed to their conduct in many instances, both in ancient and modern times, for proofs of their undeviating loyalty and zealous devotion to the interests of their country, of their steady attachment to the constitution, to the support of which, though deprived of its benefits, they had never thought any sacrifice too great. They had repeatedly contributed their property, and unsparingly risked their lives, in the support of that constitution, whenever the services of the state required them; and no man was more competent than the noble duke opposite, to bear testimony to the bravery displayed in those contests in which they had been the humble instruments and partakers of his fame—to the noble manner in which they had supported the honour of the country and the independence of that constitution, of the benefits of which they were still deprived. The petitioners further appealed, in proof that there was nothing in their religion incompatible with religious or civil liberty, or dangerous to the interests of the state, to the conduct
771770769Earl Grey
900 wished to call the attention of the House to a subject, in which the best interest of his Majesty and the honour of the country were concerned, He alluded to what was understood to have taken place since the battle of Navarino, with respect to the inhabitants of the Morea. If he were not misinformed, not fewer than four thousand inhabitants of that country, the flower of the population, had been transported to Egypt, for purposes too detestable to detail. The conviction on his mind was, that if the glorious battle of Navarino, from which the most useful results might have been expected, had been received in this country as it ought to have been, such an event would not have taken place. He feared that the fact of that atrocity
900The Earl of Darnley
 was sorry to say, that certainly a great number—how many he could not say—of the inhabitants of the Morea had been carried to Egypt. That was certainly the fact—a fact, the existence of which was very much lamented by his majesty's government; who had done every thing in their power, by orders which had been sent out, to prevent the recurrence of such a misfortune; and he could now say that measures had been taken which would have that effect. He could also assure the noble lord, that directions had been given to the Egyptian troops, and endeavours had been made, as far as possible, to obtain their liberation.The Duke of Wellington
1105 said, he believed, that even his enemies would not suppose that he was animated by any feelings of political hostility or rancour; and he was sure his friends would not suppose that he acted from any such feelings. It would be in the recollection of their lordships, that during the last session, there was no person who took a more prominent part against the policy of the right hon. gentleman than he did. He disapproved of his arrangements, both as to our domestic and foreign policy; and he had expressed his opposition before their lordships. He would never allow of the phrase, that he had "called anew world into existence." He had opposed the lamentable treaty of the 6th of July. He had opposed the policy which had led, unfortunately, the Russian armies across the Pruth, and perhaps across the Danube, and which might lead to the destruction of the Ottoman Empire. Had it not been for the policy of that right hon. gentleman, the Russians would not have been encouraged to press forward; but he had made what s only a sentiment in him, but was life and death to the Russians, the basis of a treaty; and had he not urged forward the Russians, they would, probably, have fol-
1105The Marquis of Londonderry
1108l.1107l.1106 said, that after the speech of the noble duke, which had stated
1108l.1107l.1106The Earl of Dudley
1109 said, that while he had the honour of a seat in his Majesty's cabinet, this subject had been discussed, and he had then declared his decided opinion, that it was the duty of government to submit to parliament a proposition of this description. He conceived that the measure was justifiable, not merely on account of the splendid talents and great services of the eminent individual in question, but on the general principle, that if parliament chose to deprive the Crown of the power of conferring rewards upon the family of an individual who had held an important station under the Crown, and who had discharged the duties of that office with ability and zeal, it became the indispensable duty of parliament to bestow those rewards which the Crown had not the power to confer. It was always maintained, however, that though it was fit that parliament should deprive the Crown of that power, it was also equally fit that parliament should be called upon to fill up the deficiency, whenever a case arose which called for its generous interference. He could not, therefore, see any force in the objection of a noble lord to this bill, on the ground that it was an amendment upon an act which had obtained the sanction of parliament. It had been well observed by his noble friend who had spoken last, that this was the discharge of a debt of justice, rather than an act of liberality; and that was a sufficient answer to the objections of the noble lord. There was one observation which had fallen from the noble marquis with which he had been much struck. The noble marquis had said, that the pension which he had asked from the government, had been refused to him at the instance of Mr. Canning, and upon personal grounds. He should not weaken the effect of what had fallen from his noble friend (lord Dudley) by entering into a refutation of that charge, but he happened
1109Lord Goderich
l.l.1116 said, that the act to which the noble duke had alluded was passed under a strong impression, on the part of parliament and the country, that sinecure places were of a mischievous nature. But the noble duke called upon them not to amend that act, but to make an addition to it; for the clause in question was an addition and not an amendment: its object was to authorise the Crown to do an act which it could not do under the existing law. The act which this bill proposed to amend, gave to the Crown the power to grant pensions to certain persons for public services rendered to the country, after their removal from office, and during the remainder of their lives. Now, a pension of that description could not last very long; but the one proposed by the noble duke might last for half a century. A noble lord had said, that this pension should be granted out of the consolidated fund; and he would prefer that mode of proceeding. He wished to consider this question solely in
l.l.1116Earl Grosvenor
111511141113111211111110 said:—My lords; if I eould consider the grant proposed to be made to Mr. Canning's family by the present bill, as affording in any degree a measure, either of his public services or of the estimation in which they arc held by the country, I must confess I could not but consider it to be very inadequate. There are, however, I am aware, circumstances by which similar grants are necessarily limited, and which have regulated and controlled the course of the government on the present occasion; considerations which, being quite independent either of the merits of the individual, or of the feelings of the country, render the present grant in no degree a correct criterion of either. And though I should have preferred that this grant had been regulated in the manner suggested by the noble lord, (Dacre) though I regret that it is not in its nature—that of a mere annuity on a single life; or in the amount of that annuity, more nearly commensurate with Mr. Canning's eminent services,—or more suitable to the liberality of a great and generous nation; I will not offer any objection to the present bill, but am content to accede to it, on the grounds proposed by the noble duke, who has introduced the measure with a fairness and candour, for which, as a friend of Mr. Canning, I feel bound to express my acknowledgments.111511141113111211111110Lord Seaford
11041103 said, that if the proposition had been to vote a sum of money, he should not have offered any opposition to it. For, though he had, on very few occasions, while Mr. Canning was living, concurred with him, yet no man was more sensible than he was of the great talents, and vast acquirements of that right hon. gentleman. He had been opposed to that right hon. gentleman, on almost all questions of economical reform: he had met in him a most decided enemy to those constitutional principles which he (lord Dacre) had supported; and he had found him on all occasions, the active supporter of every proposition, which went to curtail the privileges of the people; but he must, however, say, that much as he was opposed to the right hon. gentleman, that would not have boon sufficient to make him oppose the bill. The noble duke had stated the grounds on which he should oppose the bill. The bill was, to amend an act, which, after long and repeated discussion, had been passed, to put an end to the power of granting reversionary offices, at a time when those who possessed the situation lately held by the right hon. gentleman, thought they had a just claim to enjoy them. The question now was, whether the bill, by which it was proposed to amend the 57th of his late majesty, which had been resolved on after long
11041103Lord Dacre
 said, that, having been an intimate friend of the late Mr. Canning, he was anxious to bear his testimony in addition to that of his noble friend, to the public-spirited motives which induced Mr. Canning to relinquish the appointment to the government of India. He happened to have in his possession a document amply confirmatory of the sentiments expressed by his noble friend on that subject. In a private letter, written 30th September, 1822, at the period when he had given up the appointment of Governor-general of India, Mr. Canning, after stating his reasons for doing so, and for accepting of the office of Secretary for Foreign Affairs says—"I take no joy, and I feel none. I have sacrificed my interests, my wishes, and I believe my happiness; but I hope I have done my duty."The Earl of Morley
11021101, in moving the second reading of the Pensions Act Amendment Bill, said, he would state to their lordships the grounds which induced him to be a party to the introduction of this measure, and those upon which he recommended it to their lordships' approbation. Mr. Canning, whose qualifications and abilities were well known to the country, entered his majesty's service in the year 1796, and, after having filled several important situations in the government of this country, died in the year 1827, holding, at the time, the office of chancellor of the Exchequer, and first lord of the Treasury. It was well-known that the salaries of officers, and particularly of high officers, in this country, were inadequate to defray the expenses into which they who filled those offices were obliged to enter. That might be good policy: it might be right, with a view to economy, that that should be the case; but it was quite clear, that when a person like Mr. Cunning, with but a small fortune, came to be called upon to perform the duties of one of those high offices, he must either perform them inadequately, or live in a manner unfit for a person holding a high office to live in, or fall upon some other means besides the emolument of his office for supporting its dignity. That was the case with that right hon. gentleman: he was obliged to expend those funds which were destined for the support of his family. He thought he might aver, that if Mr. Canning, instead of entering into the public service, had adhered to the profession for which he was educated, and for which he was so well qualified, there could, be no doubt that he would have risen to eminence in that profession, and would have left his family in a state of affluence. He
11021101The Duke of Wellington
veto1170116911681167 said, he was anxious to call their lordships' attention to the real state of the question before them. They were not called upon to make any pledge with respect to any particular measure; but they were invited to take into consideration certain obnoxious laws, which affected a large portion of his majesty's subjects, to see if they could reconcile themselves to some means of extending relief to that body. The speech of the right rev. prelate, and that of the noble earl who succeeded him, went entirely upon objections to the creed of the Catholics, whilst the opposition of the noble earl who had spoken last was directed against the bill of 1825. Now, let their lordships' minds be recalled to the real state of the case. The Commons of Great Britain having several times sent up bills for the relief of the Roman Catholics, to their lordships' House, all of which had been deemed unworthy of their lordships' concurrence, the same House now, with, as he thought, great good sense, agreed to a resolution, which they transmitted to their lordships' House, entreating them in the name of the people of England, and of Ireland, to take the case of the Catholics into their consideration. That was the state of the question. To those who were of opinion that never, under any circumstances, ought concession to be made, he would apply no argument. Upon the present question he would say, as he had already said upon that of the repeal of the Test, and Corporation acts, that the best security which they could have was to be found in the unconditional concession of
veto1170116911681167The Earl of Darnley
1189 said, he thought that the measure could not be any longer withheld. The privileges which were now demanded must sooner or later be granted. The exclusion from the enjoyment of those privileges was not congenial to the
1189Earl St. Vincent
1190.—As I have never, my lords, taken any part before in any of the debates upon this question, I rise to say a few words, in explanation of the vote which it is my intention to give, in support of the proposition of my noble friend. That proposition has been introduced by the noble marquis in a speech of so much eloquence and argument, and has been so ably seconded by the noble viscount, and others who have since addressed your lordships, that I feel it unnecessary to trouble your lordships at any length upon the subject; but I think, as I have hitherto abstained from making any observation, that it is my duty, on the present occasion, to explain the reasons of the vote I am about to give. After affording the subject the utmost consideration, I feel, indeed, that I should not do my duty if I refrained from supporting the measure which my noble friend proposes in the resolution he has submitted to the House. If, in the anxious consideration I have given to this subject, I could have perceived any danger likely to accrue either to the Established Church or to the constitution my family were brought to this country to maintain, from making concessions to the Roman Catholics, I may say, without hesitation, that nothing on earth could have induced me to lend those claims my support. After the most attentive consideration, I cannot, however, admit that any danger could accrue to any class of his majesty's subjects, from granting to the Roman Catholics the
1190The Duke of Gloucester
1197119611951194119311921191:—If more than one noble lord, in addressing your lordships on the present occasion, has thought it necessary to begin with declaring, that his ingenuity does not enable him to suggest any thing new on a subject which has been so frequently under discussion, it is far more incumbent upon me to make a similar declaration. But I am anxious to explain very briefly my view of the concessions to which this House will be pledged, not expressly, indeed, but virtually, by adopting the proposition of the noble marquis; and, at the same time, to meet his demand, that we should state explicitly the danger which we apprehend from making those concessions. My lords, the danger which I apprehend is the same which has been stated by a noble and learned lord, who lately filled the highest legal office in the sister country— danger to the Protestant Establishment; and the authority to which I shall appeal, in proof of the reality of that danger, is the same to which that noble and learned lord appealed—the authority of Dr. Doyle. Your lordships may remember that, a few years since, it was suggested in another place, that the only effectual remedy for the ills of Ireland was an union of the two churches; and that Dr. Doyle addressed a letter to the author of that suggestion, highly applauding the sentiment, and stating, that to accomplish such an union would prove a less difficult task than might at first be supposed. In the latter part of this assertion I cannot believe Dr. Doyle to have been serious. He
1197119611951194119311921191The Bishop of Lincoln said
 said, that he took a different view of this question from some of the noble lords who had addressed the House. It was asserted, that the concession they were required to make to the Roman Catholics would have the effect of tranquillizing Ireland. He must say, however, that if it would tranquillize Ireland, which he was not prepared to admit, it would, on the contrary, produce a very great disturbance here. Whatever ferment might exist in Ireland from withholding the boon of Catholic emancipation, it was a very doubtful matter to him, whether the granting it would not produce a much greater ferment in this country. For this reason, among others, he opposed the motion; and though some persons might be disposed to call him a bigot, he acted according to his real and conscientious belief, when he entered his strongest protest against the resolution recommended by the noble marquis.The Duke of Cumberland
 said, he would not detain their lordships with any detail of his opinions upon this question. He could not, however, avoid observing, that the question was rapidly gaining ground, and that those who were opposed to any concession to the Catholics in one session, expressed their cordial assent to their emancipation in the next. His opinions upon the subject were unchanged: he had full and unlimited confidence in his majesty's government; but, notwithstanding the allegiance he owed the noble duke at the head of that government, it was not possible for him to depart from the opinions he had already expressed in favour of the Catholics. He was quite sure that the time would arrive, when the legislature must adopt the noble marquis's resolution, or some other measure which would have the effect of giving tranquillity to the Irish people. When the noble marquis was on the ministerial side of the House, he ought to have stepped forward and proposed some measure for the relief of the Roman Catholics. If he had done so, and made the same exertions in its support then, which he used now, he must have accomplished the object he had in view. As the noble marquis had proposed the resolution in a speech of singular ability, and as he cordially concurred in all the arguments he had used, he would content himself, on the present occasion, by declaring, that his humble exertions should, never be wanting to the support of the cause of the Catholics, and that he gave his vote most cordially in support of the present resolution.The Marquis of Londonderry
1199 said, he was aware there was a progress of opinion in this country, which might, at some future period, admit of the entertainment of this question. But the present time and the present disposition of the people of this country wore not favourable to it. As he apprehended that the proposition now before the House, as a preliminary measure, would not be followed in the sequel by a legislative measure of relief, he was adverse to the adoption of it. It would only lead to the excitement of hopes which would not be realized. The doctrine of divided allegiance was one which he could not reconcile with the allegiance due by good subjects to their sovereign. Even Catholics themselves had recourse to sophistry in their endeavours to explain it, but he owned that it was one that had never been
1199The Bishop of Landaff
"That it is expedient to consider the state of the laws affecting his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Great Britain and Ireland, with a view to such a final and conciliatory adjustment, as may be conducive to the peace and strength of the United Kingdom; to the stability of the Protestant establishment; and to the general satisfaction and concord of all classes of his Majesty's subjects." having moved the order of the day, the clerk read the following Resolution—"That it is expedient to consider the state of the laws affecting his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects in Great Britain and Ireland, with a view to such a final and conciliatory adjustment, as may be conducive to the peace and strength of the United Kingdom; to the stability of the Protestant establishment; and to the general satisfaction and concord of all classes of his Majesty's subjects."The Marquis of Lansdowne
115011491148114711461145114411431142114111401139113811371136minimum,11351134 said, he rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of inviting their lordships to concur in the Resolution which had just been read; not less in deference to the extreme importance of the subject than to the custom which had been usually, if not invariably, followed in their lordships House, when any communication of the importance of the one now before their lordships came from the other House, of founding some proceeding upon it. He was ready to confess that was his chief apology, as it was one of his principal inducements for putting himself forward on the present occasion; for, though he had twice before been in-
115011491148114711461145114411431142114111401139113811371136minimum,11351134The Marquis of Lansdowne
1151, in a tone of voice scarcely audible at the bar, said, that from the high situation he held in the Church, he felt himself called upon to offer a few observations on the important question before the House. The noble marquis had brought forward a resolution for their lordships' concurrence, which had been passed by the other House, the object of which was, that they should give a pledge to attempt to discover such means as might be calculated to bring about conciliation with the Roman Catholics, in order to effect a final adjustment, calculated to increase the peace and strength of the united kingdom, to promote the stability of the Protestant Church, and the concord and satisfaction of all classes of the community. This was the effect of the resolution proposed by the noble marquis; and if it were as easy to execute as it was to propose those objects, no man in that House could be more anxious than he was to enter into the spirit of the pledge. But there was, as far as he could see, little or no prospect of accomplishing those desirable purposes; and the pledge, or the attempt, would only lead to fresh impatience and fresh disappointment, on the part of those who were the objects of it. The question
1151The Archbishop of Canterbury
11591158115711561155protégé115411531152 said, he was not satisfied to give a silent vote on this important question. Were the subject to be determined solely on the ground of political expediency, he should not have intruded himself upon their lordships' time. Impressed as he was with the essential difference between what was
11591158115711561155protégé115411531152The Archbishop of Tuam
11611160 said, it had often been matter of surprise to him, that men who stood forward on most occasions as the supporters of civil rights and liberties, should be found amongst the advocates of a spiritual despotism, which was decidedly hostile to the doctrines which at other times they strenuously maintained. He could only account for it by supposing that the persons to whom he alluded persuaded themselves, that the sentiments which were justly entertained respecting the Roman Catholic church of the seventeenth century, were not applicable to what they considered the modified and enlightened Catholic religion of the present time. In his opinion, however, it was in vain for the supporters of the Roman Catholics to allege, that their religion was altered, and was not what it had been, unless they were prepared to show at what period the beneficial change was effected. When had the intolerant and overbearing principles of the Roman Catholic church been publicly renounced? He challenged any person to bring forward proofs of that fact. Proofs to the contrary were abundant. He would only refer to one, and he requested their lordships' attention to it. It was a passage contained in a letter published a few years ago by one of the most exalted members of the Roman Catholic church; namely, Dr. Troy, the
11611160The Earl of Winchilsea
1162 said, that, if the question before the House had been to agree to a bill for the relief of the Catholics, he would not have troubled their lordships. In such a case it would have been sufficient for him to express his assent to, or dissent from, the proposition by a silent vote. But, as the question was, whether or not their lordships would take into consideration the claims of the Catholics, with a view of finally adjusting them, unless he was prepared to say that, under no circumstances would he grant them! emancipation, he could not consent silently to give a vote against the proposition. If he wanted any further excuse for rising, he should find it in the challenge which the noble marquis opposite had thrown out for those to declare their opinions, who thought that securities might be found. Now he thought that securities might be found, which would enable him to vote in favour of the Catholics; and he thought he was taking the fairest course, by stating what the securities were which he would demand. The securities which he would require contained nothing that ought either to alarm the Catholics, or afford ground of dissatisfaction to the Protestants. At the same time, he could not, considering the violent language which was held in other places, on both; sides, and in the petitions to that House, entertain a sanguine hope, that any such, amicable arrangement as that he proposed would take place. If, however, those Protestants, who thought securities could 'be found, would come forward and declare what the nature of those securities was, the question would stand a fairer chance of being set at rest than it did at present. Oaths and declarations move than sufficient had been proffered by the Catholics. He attached but little importance to them; but he thought it would be an ample security, if the nomination of Catholic bishops were placed in the hands of the sovereign. He was inclined to think that
1162The Marquis of Salisbury
1182veto1181118011791178117711761175 said:—My lords, when the question of the Catholic claims was last discussed in this House, I took occasion to state to your lordships my sentiments upon the general subject; and perhaps I should not now trouble your lordships again, were there not some points connected with the view I then took of the question, which have, since that period, been frequently adverted to, both in and out of parliament, and which appear to admit of further elucidation.1182veto1181118011791178117711761175The Bishop of Durham
12011200 said, he wondered, since the noble earl was of opinion that none of the measures hitherto adopted had had the effect of tranquillizing Ireland, that he had never thought of trying what might be done by means of conciliation. The House of Commons had come to a resolution, that they would take this matter into consideration. His noble friend was accused of not having brought the subject before the House during- the last session, but the reason why he had not done so was obvious. In the last session the House of Commons had conic to an opinion directly the reverse of their present vote; and that was, in his opinion, reason enough why his noble friend had not brought it forward last year, and had done so in the present. Now, it would be remembered, that they had come to this decision, not at the call of the administration, nor at the suggestion of the Court, but under the influence of that which, in spite of sarcasm, he would pronounce the march of intellect—that which was not a new spirit, but as old as the Reformation —that which no policy of church or state
12011200The Earl of Carnarvon
1174117311721171 said—It would be a waste of your lordships' time, were I to tread the ground so often and so ably occupied, in proof that the tenets of the Roman Catholic church, essentially intolerant, are ad verse to the existence of Protestant establishments, which they have incessantly condemned, as the receptacles of heresy and impiety. Not only have we the decretals of popes and councils in evidence of this fact, but we have also the
1174117311721171The Earl of Guilford
1188de propaganda fide;quasi11871186118511841183 said, I would not now have troubled your lordships if I had had any previous opportunity of expressing my sentiments upon this question in this House, and which sentiments I will endeavour to compress into as narrow a compass as possible. In this view, my lords, I shall not advert to that part of the subject which most directly arises out of what we all admit to be the errors of the Church of Rome. The question before your lordships does not really depend upon the consideration of whether the Roman Catholics are right or wrong in the religious opinions they hold; but whether there be any such the or connexion between these erroneous principles and their political relations to the state, as can justify parliament in maintaining restrictions, which all of us admit to be justifiable only on a clear and admitted 'ground of necessity. It is impossible for any man not to feel that this is a question of unspeakable importance; and, when I say it is one of unspeakable importance, strong as the expression maybe, I feel that I greatly underrate the character which really attaches to it. I think it is a question not merely important, but absolutely vital,—vital,notonly in the estimation of those who support it, but also of those who oppose it. If we, my lords, who are friendly to its concession, think that without it you can have no peace or tranquillity in one half of the kingdom, that without it, you never can possess that entire confidence in your own strength which is necessary to your own safety, because it is essential to teach other nations that it is a I dangerous thing to meddle with a united
1188de propaganda fide;quasi11871186118511841183Viscount Goderich
1166116511641163 said, that the motion which had been submitted to their lordships called upon them to concur in a resolution which had been agreed to by the Commons. Before their lordships concurred in that resolution, which it must be admitted was sufficiently general, it was necessary to come to some understanding as to its meaning and object. The resolution called upon them to consider the laws affecting the Roman Catholics. What, he would ask, had that and the other House of parliament been doing for six and twenty years, but taking those laws into consideration? That and the other House of parliament, too, had taken those laws into consideration, for the purpose of effecting an object which had always been avowed. The resolution which
1166116511641163Earl Bathurst
, who spoke from the cross bench, in a situation which rendered it extremely difficult to hear him, commenced by complaining of the temper of the Irish Catholic Association, and of the tendency of their speeches to inflame and exasperate the public mind. He deprecated the spirit which had prevailed in all the proceedings of that ill-regulated and angry political association. It was impossible, he said, to grant the Catholics the concessions they sought, and afford any protection to the established reformed Church of Ireland, in the present temper of the Irish nation. The Catholic Association, which might be considered as displaying the spirit and disposition of their brethren, had hitherto done their utmost— in many instances but too successfully—to separate the tenant from his landlord, to produce discoid and anarchy throughout the country, and to estrange the loyalty and allegiance of all their fellow-subjects, over whom they could exercise any influence. It had been said, that concessions to the Catholics were demanded by policy and justice; but he could not perceive the applicability of either. With every disposition to grant emancipation, if such a measure could be conceded consistently with safety to the establishment, he could rot consent, under existing circumstances, to acknowledge claims which were essentially pernicious to the Protestant religion and the civil interests of the state.Lord Manners
 said, he was desirous of seeing the path of honourable ambition opened to Catholic peers and to Catholic gentlemen; but, looking to the proceedings of the Catholic Association, and to the writings of Catholic priests, he could not bring- himself to believe, that the carrying the question would have the effect of tranquillizing Ireland. On the contrary, he believed that the people of Ireland would consider emancipation only as a triumph, and as a step to the establishment of the Romish Church. At the same time, he should not be reluctant to consent to the experiment being made, if sufficient securities could be given; and he thought, if the Catholics were sincere in their professions, there could be little difficulty in finding such securities.The Earl of Dartmouth
12281227l.12261225"A milk white hind, immortal and unchanged;"1224 said, he could not, with the best attention it was in his power to give the speech of his noble friend, feel himself influenced by the same reasons, or induced to arrive at a similar conclusion. He thought that, in the consideration of this question, it was incumbent upon those who were opposed to this vote, rather to show the political necessity for their opposition, than to call on those who brought it forward to show the reasons for its adoption. Still, however, its supporters had, in compliment to their opponents, stated the grounds of their support, and it was now the duty of the House to give the question their fullest consideration. Looking, therefore, only to those who were opposed to this motion, he thought they ought rather to show that there would be greater risk to the establishments of
12281227l.12261225"A milk white hind, immortal and unchanged;"1224The Marquis of Bute
12341233Regium Donum12321231prœmunire12301229 said, he was anxious, upon many accounts, to place on
12341233Regium Donum12321231prœmunire12301229The Earl of Haddington
1237animus suscipientis.animus imponentis1236semper eadem1235 said, he could not give a silent vote on the present question, the rather as it appeared to him that the real merits of the case lay in a small compass. There were two points to be ascertained by their lordships—these were, first, whether or not the Roman Catholics had any just right or claim to what was now demanded; and next, if they had not such a right, whether we were called upon, on any principle of justice or expediency, to grant the privileges which they sought. There was a manifest difference between political and religious toleration: religious toleration had reference to the intercourse subsisting between the creature and his Creator—political toleration respected the intercourse between man and man. It would be a needless waste of their lordships' time to attempt to prove that the Roman Catholics were in possession of complete and unqualified religious toleration: suffice it to say, that Roman Catholic places of worship were recognized by the law, and every one was at liberty to worship God as his reason and his conscience might direct. But it would be said why was not political toleration equally conceded to the Catholics with that which had been extended to the exercise of their religion? And why were not the professors of different religious beliefs equally admissible
1237animus suscipientis.animus imponentis1236semper eadem1235The Bishop of Bath and Wells
1241"All that we shall observe upon this protest is, that the present duchess of Modena, united by her husband with the imperial family of Austria, is the next living descendant of the above duchess of Savoy, and that, on the failure of issue from her, the present dauphin of France succeeds to all the hereditary rights of those princesses! Will any Englishman, with this frightful view of the effects of granting the popish 'claims' before his eyes, be bold enough to say that he will 'pass the Rubicon?'"Sec. 45. The Act of Succession gave umbrage to all the popish princes who were more nearly related to the Crown than this lady (the princess Sophia), whom the parliament had preferred to all others. The duchess of Savoy, granddaughter to king Charles 1st, by her mother, ordered her ambassador, count Maffei, to make a protestation to the parliament of England, in her name, against all resolutions and decisions contrary to her title, as sole daughter to the princess Henrietta, next in succession to the Crown of England, after king William and the princess Anne of Denmark. Two copies of this protest Maffei sent in letters to the Lord Keeper and the Speaker of the Lower House, by two of his gentlemen, and a public notary to attest the delivery; but no notice was taken of the declaration. The duke of Savoy, while his minister was thus employed in England, engaged in an alliance with the crowns of France and Spain, on condition that his Catholic majesty should espouse his youngest daughter without a dowry.1240"It may be proper to add to the above bases of our present Protestant constitution, that, in consequence of the failure of issue, both from William and Mary, and particularly from Anne, by the death of her son, the Act of Settlement, transferring the Crown to the House of Hanover, was passed in the 12th and 13th of William 3rd. This Act of Settlement expressly recited and re-enacted the Bill of Rights, already mentioned, in every particular; pledged the lords spiritual and temporal and commons, 'in the name of all the people of this realm, most humbly and faithfully to submit themselves and their posterities' to the 'most excellent princess Sophia, electress and duchess dowager of Hanover, and the heirs of her body, being Protestants;' and on this condition, further pledged themselves 'to stand, to maintain, and defend, the said princess Sophia and her heirs, against all persons whatsoever, with their lives and estates.' While, however, the Act of Settlement was in progress, a most remarkable circumstance occurred, the whole importance of which arises from the very fact of the direct descendants of James 2nd being extinct by the death of cardinal York. The following passage is
1240Cessante ratione cessit ipsa et lex.1239"In taking this step, the best security possible for the attainment of the great object in view—a constitution wholly Protestant—was effected: the title of the sovereign and all his future successors was made contingent upon their being Protes-
Cessante ratione cessit ipsa et lex.12391238 said, he believed that the feeling of the Catholic body generally was in unison with that displayed in the Catholic Association, and in direct hostility to the established church. If he had not seriously considered the question, his judgment might, perhaps, have been influenced by the eloquence of the noble marquis who had advocated their lordships' assent to the resolution. He had attended the discussions of the question in that House from 1808 to the present day, and had read most of the pamphlets written with respect to it, including the most recent by Mr. Gally Knight, and the strange proposition of Mr. Wilmot Horton. With these arguments before him, and with the passing events of the day to illustrate them, he must declare, that so far from his opinions having undergone any change, they were more rivetted and confirmed. The noble marquis who brought forward the motion had quoted the example of foreign states in which the Catholics were admitted to political power; but he had failed to show, that those examples were applicable to our peculiar constitution. With respect to the only state whose constitution bore any affinity to that of Great Britain, he had failed to prove the antiquity of the practice which he recommended the adoption of. The constitution of Holland was framed only in 1815, and was only just completed. Many of the omissions of the noble marquis had, however, been ably supplied by the noble president of the council. In most of the continental countries to which the noble marquis had referred, the governments were purely despotic, and therefore bore no analogy to that of England. There was no resemblance, in any of the constitutions of the countries alluded to by the noble marquis, to those peculiarities in the British constitution, which had heretofore been considered our greatest blessings, but which were now, it seemed, to be trod under foot by what was called the "march of intellect." The wisdom of our ancestors at the time of the
1241"All that we shall observe upon this protest is, that the present duchess of Modena, united by her husband with the imperial family of Austria, is the next living descendant of the above duchess of Savoy, and that, on the failure of issue from her, the present dauphin of France succeeds to all the hereditary rights of those princesses! Will any Englishman, with this frightful view of the effects of granting the popish 'claims' before his eyes, be bold enough to say that he will 'pass the Rubicon?'"Sec. 45. The Act of Succession gave umbrage to all the popish princes who were more nearly related to the Crown than this lady (the princess Sophia), whom the parliament had preferred to all others. The duchess of Savoy, granddaughter to king Charles 1st, by her mother, ordered her ambassador, count Maffei, to make a protestation to the parliament of England, in her name, against all resolutions and decisions contrary to her title, as sole daughter to the princess Henrietta, next in succession to the Crown of England, after king William and the princess Anne of Denmark. Two copies of this protest Maffei sent in letters to the Lord Keeper and the Speaker of the Lower House, by two of his gentlemen, and a public notary to attest the delivery; but no notice was taken of the declaration. The duke of Savoy, while his minister was thus employed in England, engaged in an alliance with the crowns of France and Spain, on condition that his Catholic majesty should espouse his youngest daughter without a dowry.1240"It may be proper to add to the above bases of our present Protestant constitution, that, in consequence of the failure of issue, both from William and Mary, and particularly from Anne, by the death of her son, the Act of Settlement, transferring the Crown to the House of Hanover, was passed in the 12th and 13th of William 3rd. This Act of Settlement expressly recited and re-enacted the Bill of Rights, already mentioned, in every particular; pledged the lords spiritual and temporal and commons, 'in the name of all the people of this realm, most humbly and faithfully to submit themselves and their posterities' to the 'most excellent princess Sophia, electress and duchess dowager of Hanover, and the heirs of her body, being Protestants;' and on this condition, further pledged themselves 'to stand, to maintain, and defend, the said princess Sophia and her heirs, against all persons whatsoever, with their lives and estates.' While, however, the Act of Settlement was in progress, a most remarkable circumstance occurred, the whole importance of which arises from the very fact of the direct descendants of James 2nd being extinct by the death of cardinal York. The following passage is
1240Cessante ratione cessit ipsa et lex.1239"In taking this step, the best security possible for the attainment of the great object in view—a constitution wholly Protestant—was effected: the title of the sovereign and all his future successors was made contingent upon their being Protes-
Cessante ratione cessit ipsa et lex.12391238The Earl of Falmouth
125812571256125512541253125212511250124912481247 said, he wished at that early period of the debate to state the precise grounds upon which he felt himself bound to oppose the motion. He concurred with the royal duke who had just sat down, in approving of the tone and temper in which the discussion had been conducted—a tone and temper adapted as well to the dignity of that House as to the
125812571256125512541253125212511250124912481247The Lord Chancellor
127012691268126712661265126412631262126112601259 said:—I am anxious to take the first opportunity that fairly oc-
127012691268126712661265126412631262126112601259Lord Plunkett
 assured the noble and learned lord, that all he felt it his duty to state on this subject, he said in good feeling towards him, and without meaning it in any way offensively to him, for no man had a higher respect for the character of the noble and learned lord than he entertained. His argument was, that it was extremely unfair to hold out Mr. Pitt as the enemy of Catholic emancipation, and to associate the general principles of that statesman with opposition to the measure.Lord Plunkett
1271.—That is exactly what I wanted to hear. But whoever sent forth such an erroneous opinion to the country is deeply answerable for it. Another insinuation is, that Protestant ascendancy is opposed to radicalism, and the inference sought to be obtained is, that those who support the one are opposed to the other.
1271Lord Plunkett
.—May I be permitted to say a few words? [cries of "order, order"].Lord Kenyon
1278panacea12771276Regium Donum1275127412731272.—I meant distinctly to convey to the noble lord my opinion, that the publication of those letters was not proper; but, in doing so, I never intended to convey any thing that was personally offensive. I must repeat, that the publication of letters, tending to influence a measure before parliament, by putting in opposition to it the opinion of the late king, was not a fair mode of dealing with the subject. When I say this, I mean no insinuation against the sincerity of his late majesty. They are the conscientious opinions of an honest man, and the mode in which they are put is calculated to endear his memory to the people, and prove him a worthy member of the House of Brunswick. But it is miserable to think of the use which has been made of that opinion, and how the ear of royalty may be abused in some cases; for his majesty was made to believe, that he had no right to assent to the measures to which the letters referred, and that such assent would be a violation of his Coronation Oath. The opinions of lord Kenyon were those of a sound lawyer and an honest man. What he said was, that it was not incumbent on his majesty to refuse his assent to the repeal of those acts, when the Houses of parliament, in proposing that repeal, considered it for the benefit of the country. In the same view, he mentioned that the repeal of the Test Act might take place without
1278panacea12771276Regium Donum1275127412731272Lord Plunkett
12861285 said, that the resolution which had been proposed for their adoption should receive his cordial support. Were he to state the grounds of his vote, he should occupy hours of the night, which had already so far advanced. He supported the claims of the Roman Catholics from solemn conviction, founded on long and studious attention to the operation in Ireland of the laws enacted for their exclusion. The result of his experience was, a thorough impression, that those laws did not tend to the security of the Church and State, as was fondly imagined, but only produced danger to what they had been designed as a safeguard. It had been his lot to watch all the bearings of the system, and he could not but consider it no less impolitic than it was unjust. In the discharge of his official duty in Ireland, he had had the most efficient assistance from the members of his majesty's government,—he felt at the time, and he now acknowledged with gratitude, their active co-operation—he had been also supported by the personal favour of his beloved sovereign; and yet, notwithstanding those advantages, his exertions for the tranquillization of that country had been too often counteracted by the dreadful influence of this code. He was surprised that the present resolution should be objected to, as it did not pledge their lordships to any particular plan, but merely set forth, that "it was expedient to consider the laws affecting the Roman Catholics, with a view to such a final and conciliatory adjustment, as might be conducive to the peace and strength of the United Kingdom, to the stability of the Protestant Establishment, and to the general satisfaction and concord of all classes of his majesty's sub-
12861285The Marquis Wellesley
12941293 said:—My lords, I shall forbear troubling your lordships at any great length in reply. In what has fallen in the course of the debate, there have been many things that have encouraged me, in my view of the subject. In the first place, I collect this encouragement from the tone of the whole debate. I have also collected encouragement, not only from the supporters of the proposition, but from the suggestions furnished by the very enemies of the cause. I have even collected encouragement from the hints, cautions, and hesitations, which fell from the right reverend bench; and most of all, I have collected encouragement from that important admission from the noble lord on the woolsack, that he was aware of a great difficulty existing, and out of which he at present saw no outlet. This admission has since been confirmed by the noble duke; so that it will not now be denied, that the Catholic question has reduced this country to a state of great difficulty. This statement having been made by two noblemen so high in the confidence of the sovereign, it almost necessarily follows, that it is accompanied with their intention of looking at this difficulty, with a view to its final arrangement [cheers]. Because, when the proposition that I make,
12941293The Marquis of Lansdowne
12231222l.l.Rex sposponditconcordatum1221122012191218121712161215 rose and said:—My Lords, although this important subject has frequently undergone discussion in parliament during the last twenty years, and although the progress of the present debate has not produced much new matter either of fact or of argument, nevertheless, in deference to the opinion of the House of Commons, expressed in a resolution formally communicated to us, I am desirous of stating, briefly and plainly, the reasons which oblige me to refuse my consent to the present motion.12231222l.l.Rex sposponditconcordatum1221122012191218121712161215Lord Colchester
124612451244prœmunire12431242 said, he was anxious to notice what had fallen from the noble lord who spoke last Being himself a member of the royal family, who held their situation in this country upon the principles which the noble lord had just expressed, he fully accorded in the justice of those principles; but the noble lord would allow him to say, that while he admitted them in the fullest extent, he differed from him widely as to the measures by which they were to be supported and advanced. He was anxious not to give a silent vote upon the motion, because he still entertained the same opinions upon the subject, which had always impressed his mind. He would not presume to take up the time of their lordships by proving what they would all admit, that the civil advantages of our incomparable constitution belonged equally to every
124612451244prœmunire12431242The Duke of Sussex
 said, that the bill he had introduced into parliament had been passed in the hopes that it would prove sufficient to allay any uneasiness in this country; and he thought the measure better calculated to produce that effect than any other. The first emancipation that the Roman Catholics of Ireland stood in need of was an emancipation from the tyranny that was exercised over them by their clergy.Lord Redesdale
12841283ipso facto1282in ordine ad spiritualein ordine ad spirituale.128112801279 complained of the attack made upon him by the learned lord, who had represented him as a person determined never to consent to any measure of tranquillity to England and Ireland. He protested, that he had never used, towards any class of his fellow-subjects, any language which could justify that statement. The only determination he had formed upon this subject was, to investigate it, and to watch it as closely as possible; and, whatever might be the result of his deliberations, he would act upon them unhesitatingly. His motto had ever been, "Be just, and fear not." Before he entered on the subject immediately before the House, he begged permission to say one word in allusion to what had been observed respecting the late Mr. Pitt. There was no person whose memory was more dear to him. There was no charge he should feel more acutely if it could be made against him justly, than that of having offered any disrespect to the memory or the character of that great man. He was ready to plead guilty to the charge of having annually, since his death, and of intending annually, as long as he was able, until his own should happen, to celebrate Mr. Pitt's birth-day. He begged, however, to deny on his own part, and on the part of those who were equally guilty with him of this charge, that it was his purpose or theirs, to make use of that great man's name against the Roman Catholics of this country or of Ireland. He knew, and he had always acted on the knowledge, that Mr. Pitt had an earnest desire to relieve the Roman Catholics from their disabilities, both in England and in Ireland, if he could have done it consistently with his public duty, and have obtained those securities which he thought necessary to the safety of the religious establishments of the country. He would take the liberty, in addition to what appeared in the letters to which the learned lord had referred, to state, that there were certain securities or restrictions which Mr. Pitt would have insisted upon, as a preliminary condition to the concession of the claims of the Roman Catholics. Having had the opportunity, again and again, in the course of his intercourse with that great person, and being most anxious to regulate his own conduct in
12841283ipso facto1282in ordine ad spiritualein ordine ad spirituale.128112801279The Earl of Eldon
 denied that he had so held out the opinion of Mr. Pitt.Lord Eldon
.—I claim my share of that imputation.Lord Eldon
129212911290128912881287 said:—My lords, I rise under extreme difficulty to address your lordships on this most important subject. I feel particular concern at being under the necessity of following my noble relative, and of stating that I differ in opinion from him whom I so dearly love, and for whose opinions I entertain so much respect and deference. I cannot, however, consent to the view which he has taken of this subject; but shall proceed to state my own opinions; hoping that, in the end, the views of my
129212911290128912881287The Duke of Wellington
13151314 rose, for the purpose of presenting three petitions, deserving their lordships' most serious attention. The first came from a numerous body of merchants and ship-owners in London. The petitioners complained of the vast losses which they continued to sustain, in consequence of the system of Piracy and depredation, carried on under the flags of Buenos Ayres and Colombia. They complained of the almost annihilation of their; commerce with that part of the world; but they complained still less of the grievances which they themselves suffered, than of the revolting atrocities perpetrated on their fellow-subjects;—atrocities, in one instance (that of a ship called the "Morning Star," proceeding from Ceylon to this country) of such a nature, that a sentiment of respect towards their lordships prevented him from describing the manner in which Englishmen had been treated by the subjects of governments, which England herself made it her boast to have called into being. He knew, indeed, that these atrocities would be excused by those who were determined to discover nothing but what was good and virtuous in republican institutions, and who thought that the crimes of young states were juvenile indiscretions to be passed over. He knew it would be said, that it was extremely unfair to judge of the many from the conduct of the few, and to condemn a government for the acts of its servants; but when he saw that no effectual steps were taken to punish or apprehend the authors of these enormities—when he found, on the contrary, that they were, on their return to their country, promoted, and furnished with new vessels and new commissions, and sent anew roving and bucaniering against the commerce of friendly and neutral powers, he had a right to say, that some of these republics were founded and sustained by robbery. England might boast of this creation, but he feared she had produced no creditable progeny; and if the time ever came when we should have again to contend with the United States of Northern America, we should find that we had been recruiting for their navies, and that for their benefit, those colonies had been torn from that Spain, under whose responsibility we should wish that they had been allowed quietly to remain.—The second petition came from the merchants and ship-owners of Jersey. Jersey employs—or rather did employ—upwards
13151314Lord Strangford
 said, that, in consequence of certain rumours which had been alluded to elsewhere, he wished to ask a noble lord opposite, whether or not there was any foundation for those rumours? He entertained no feeling of hostility to the noble lord in putting this question, which he was quite sure would be answered satisfactorily; convinced as he was, that that noble lord was incapable of carrying on any correspondence hostile to the interests of this country.Lord Dundas
 wished it was in his power to give that satisfaction which his noble friend desired, and which the subject to which the petitions referred undoubtedly deserved. He knew that his noble friend who preceded him in the office which he had the honour to fill, had made numerous and urgent recommendations on this subject to the South American governments; and he had great pleasure in stating, that the Brazilian government had promised that full reparation which the case demanded, and which was in the course of being made. With respect to the outrages mentioned by the noble lord, unquestionably the government of this country ought to extend protection to its subjects pursuing a lawful and peaceful commerce in those seas; and he trusted, that every possible reparation would be obtained. At least, those steps would not be wanting, which appeared most likely to obtain reparation. With respect to the subject of peace, he trusted that in much less time than the noble lord had mentioned, such a peace would be concluded as would afford the best opportunity of preventing future atrocities.The Earl of Aberdeen
1317 said, his noble friend had shown him the letters which he
1317The Duke of Wellington
1316 said, he wished to make no observation on the manner in which this accusation had been made, under circumstances which prevented the antidote from being applied to the poison. After a long residence in Portugal, and an intimate acquaintance with that country for upwards of twenty years, it was not extraordinary that he should have been on terms of friendly intercourse with many
1316Lord Beresford
134213411340d.d.1339s.s.maximums.s.minimum1338133713361335 said, he gave his noble friend full credit for being convinced that this measure, under all the circumstances, was the best that could be devised; and he trusted that his noble friend would give him equal credit when he said, that he would not stand up to oppose his noble friend's measure, unless he was convinced that it would be prejudicial to the best interests of the country. He was sure he should not hear from his noble friend—indeed he doubted whether he should hear from any of their lordships—a repetition of the calumnies uttered on former occasions, when any one rose to 'advocate that side of the question which he was then going to advocate; namely; "that we are led, from interested motives, to secure a profit to ourselves as landholders, at the expense of the poorer classes of the community; in other words, that we are seeking to establish for ourselves a monopoly in the trade of corn." A monopoly ! In whose favour? In favour of the agriculturists? Could he be told, that a monopoly which was established in favour of the country at large, was productive of the injurious effects which attended private monopolies? He had never accused any public men of acting from private views of interest or ambition. He had himself never acted but
134213411340d.d.1339s.s.maximums.s.minimum1338133713361335The Earl of Lauderdale
minimum;maximum,s.1343s. said, he knew not in what class of politicians the noble lord might be disposed to place him, according to the distinction which, with a mixture of good humour and severity, he had drawn upon the present occasion. The noble lord had described the difference of their respective opinions with perfect accuracy; but though he (lord Goderich) had maintained, both there and elsewhere, the principles of free trade, he was not such an absolute philosopher, as not to compromise the principle when it was necessary that he should do so in order to bring it into partial operation. But that compromise did not show that he was the less confident in the principle which he professed; for, though he differed totally in the view which the noble lord took of the present law, he would allow that it was impossible for this country to adopt the abstract principle of free trade, under all the complication of interests which had grown up with the wealth and resources of the nation. His opinion was, that the laws ought to be revised, with a view to bring them back to the state in which they stood before the late war. Therefore, he feared no charge against him as a theorist, or as one who did not care what became of the agricultural interest; nor did he fear that he could be fairly charged, upon the other hand, with having deserted the principle of free trade, of which he was an avowed and sincere supporter. The noble lord had argued as if they were now legislating upon a principle entirely new, and as if the policy which he supported was that which the country had always maintained; but nothing could be more fallacious than such an insinuation. In 1804, the high duty was first proposed up to the price of 54minimum;maximum,s.1343s.Lord Goderich
l.l.1345l.l. said, that up to a certain point it was always his opinion that prohibition should exist. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson), who might be considered the father of the free-trade system, had admitted the miscalculation which he had committed in the first instance, in taking the average too low. When that was the case with respect to so experienced a judge, might he not suppose that, in the present year, the same mistake was committed? Supposing they had been last year legislating for a permanent measure, what would the consequence have been?—that they had taken a wrong average. Was that no argument for exercising caution now? It was surely not too much to ask that this country should be placed in the same state as other countries, with regard to that great article of consumption, corn, which could only be done by a contract between the grower and the consumer. It was not too much to expect from the consumer, that he should say, "I will give you a certain price, which shall be sufficient to protect you against the foreign grower." The ways in which foreign corn might operate against the grower of this country were various. He would give one instance. Suppose certain merchants had speculated in foreign corn to the amount of 300,000l.l.1345l.l.The Earl of Malmesbury
1346s.s.s. said, he was somewhat in doubt as to whether he should oppose or support the bill; and that doubt arose from the measure not going far enough, as he thought, to weaken the monopoly of the landed interest. A noble lord had expressed his surprise that that should be called a monopoly which he said was for the benefit of the whole country. He, however, thought it was a monopoly for the advantage of one order of the state to the injury of every other. The only part of the bill he really liked was that which repealed the bill of 1815. He would take that opportunity of giving his parting malediction to that iniquitous measure. In his opinion, justice had never been done upon that old culprit. Even at that moment he felt surprised at the impudence with which that bill had been introduced. The object of those who introduced that measure was to keep the price of corn at 801346s.s.s.Lord King
1350134913481347 said:—My long and near connexion with a noble earl now unfortunately secluded from public life, with whom this measure is known to have originated, and under the sanction of whose name it was first brought before the public, has made me watch its progress with peculiar interest, and as there is no individual who would have seen with more regret any modification of it inconsistent with the principles on which it was founded, I am anxious to take this opportunity of stating my entire satisfaction at the shape in which it now appears, and feel bound in candour to acknowledge, not only that the bill is substantially the same as the one proposed by lord Liverpool, but that the alterations in the scale of duties are practical improvements, and tend to secure more regular supplies and less fluctuating prices. Whatever difference of opinion, however, may prevail as to the measure itself, all must, I think, agree that the frequent debates upon this subject, and the long attention bestowed upon it, has been productive of infinite advantage, for it is notorious that all classes now take a far juster view of the question than they did last year. I feel confident that, notwithstanding every attempt to set one half of the country in hostile array against the other half, we shall all of us come out of these discussions, merchants, manufacturers, and agriculturists, with a fuller knowledge of our true interests, and with kinder feelings towards each other; above all, with a constant recollection that no one of the
1350134913481347The Marquis of Bristol
1354s.1353 regretted, that his noble friend objected to the principle of the measure. Now, it was his perfect conviction, that ministers could not have discharged their duty if they had brought before their lordships any bill respecting the Corn-laws, founded on any other principle than that which was generally adopted by the two Houses last year, and upon which the present bill was founded. His noble friend had stated, that he (lord E.) had given his consent to the measure of last year as a temporary measure, and as an experiment. That was perfectly true it was only as an experiment that he could have consented to that measure; but, having had the example of that experiment, he had now applied the benefit of that experience to the bill before their lordships, His noble friend had dealt more harshly with the measure of last year than he was disposed to do. He had attributed the whole of the reduction in the price of wheat, which had taken place in the six months subsequent, to the introduction of five hundred thousand quarters of corn, which had come into the home market under the operation of that act. His noble friend forgot that the price of corn, subsequent to the introduction of the five hundred thousand quarters, could not have been solely affected by the introduction of that known small quantity of corn, but also by the unknown quantity of the whole harvest. If his noble friend, and other noble lords, were determined to oppose every measure which should not have the character of permanency, he feared, it would be impossible to introduce any measure which could secure their support. A permanent measure on the subject of corn was, in its very nature, impossible. If any measure should be founded, as proposed by a noble lord, on the extreme principle of free trade, the ruin which that principle
1354s.1353Lord Ellenborough
 said, he disapproved of the system, because it promoted speculation; which was what he most dreaded. They should always remember, that what was produced in a country cost it nothing; but that what was brought from other countries must be paid for. Applying this principle to the Corn-laws, he contended, that it was wise to produce as much as possible of those things to which the climate and soil of a country were adapted. It was right to encourage the productions of our own country; for they supported whatever trade we had. If our own country were to become barren, or to cease to produce, even our people must perish.Lord Redesdale
1352l.l.l.s.1351s.s. said, it was certainly necessary, as had been well stated by the noble duke, to give a due and adequate protection to the agriculture of this country, not only on account of its own importance, but also on account of the immense capital invested in it, and the vast numbers who were interested in its prosperity. He might consider that proposition as much better proved by the noble duke, than he could prove it; but, admitting and admiring, as he did, the doctrines of the noble duke, he could not but be surprised at the conclusion at which he had arrived. This was a dangerous innovation on the system which had preceded this new plan of graduated duties: for what was the former system? It had been said, that it was a system of monopoly; but he contended that it was not a system of monopoly, but of protection. In his view of the subject, however, these duties would not be prohibitory, and he would endeavour to show, when the bill came to be committed, that the duties would not be prohibitory, and that there was the strongest ground for apprehension, that the measure would prove injurious to the rents of the landlord, the constitution, and the government. The noble marquis had admitted, that the prosperity of the country depended upon its own supply of the necessaries of life for its own population; and in this he was confirmed by the opinion even of Mr. Jacob, who distinctly stated, that the country ought not to be dependent for the supplies of the necessaries of life upon other countries, but that we ought to look for those supplies, if not exclusively, yet chiefly, to our own country. The system of protecting our own agricultural produce from the too great pressure of foreign competition was of a very old date, much older than the time of Charles 2nd; but, in that reign, when the price of wheat was 561352l.l.l.s.1351s.s.Earl Stanhope
1334, in moving that this bill be read a second time, said, that the principle of it was to regulate the introduction of Foreign Corn into the home market, by a scale of duties, instead of by an entire prohibition under a certain price, and was thus the same principle which the House had adopted in the bill of last session. It ought to be observed, that the principle of prohibition was a new principle, until the act passed in 1815. Now, it appeared to him, that the corn trade ought always to be regulated by a scale of duties, rather than by means of a prohibition; and it was undoubtedly true, that from 1815 down to the present time, the system of prohibition had been found exceedingly inconvenient. Indeed, on a variety of occasions, it had become necessary for the government to interfere to introduce corn by proclamation into the country, to prevent, on the one hand, the price of it from rising to such a height as would inflict distress upon the consumer, and on the other such a subsequent influx of it from foreign ports, as would be prejudicial to the grower. On that ground it was, that the resolution to let in foreign corn by a scale of duties, rather than to keep it out by a system of prohibition, was
1334The Duke of Wellington
1368 said, he had a petition to present from the merchants, traders, and inhabitants of one of our most important colonial possessions, Calcutta, who thought themselves aggrieved by transactions which had taken place there. These opulent persons complained that, without any sufficient notice, and on grounds which they considered illegal, the local government imposed a heavy stamp-duty on all transactions which might take place in that city. The local government had thought itself entitled to raise that duty, under the 53rd of the late king, by which
1368The Marquis of Lansdowne
1369 said, that this subject was submitted to their consideration, first, upon the legality of the proceeding, and next, on its expediency. With respect to the former, he thought it quite clear, that, by the 53rd of the late king, there was a legal power to impose this tax: it had been affirmed by the Supreme Court, the judges of which were unanimous as to the strict legality of the act. If die parties were dissatisfied, why not bring the question before the privy council in the form of an-
1369Lord Melville
 said, he must oppose this bill, because its enactments were quite at variance with the title. It purported to extend the period necessary to constitute a Settlement in Scotland; but this it did not do, for it left the natives of Scotland in this respect where it found them, while it extended from three to seven years the time of settlement for persons who were not natives of Scotland. The sole object of this bill was, in fact, to prevent the influx of the poor Irish into Scotland. This mode of legislating was contrary to the spirit of the Act of Union, and was unfair and invidious. He would move, as an amendment, that the words "not being a native of Scotland," be omitted. The omission of those words would make the bill a general bill, and prevent it from being applicable to particular individuals only. He would also omit the proviso of the bill. He was not, however, prepared to defend his own amendment; for he thought it would be much better to defer the consideration of the whole measure to the next session.Lord Melville
1370 said, he should not press his opposition to the amendment to a division; but if any other noble lord should divide the House, he would divide with him. He exonerated the bill from the charge of its being an anti-national bill, as affecting the people of Ireland, and contended, that the amendment completely
1370The Earl of Rosebery
 said, he must oppose the bill, as it went to subvert the ancient system of poor-laws in Scotland. He believed that altering the time necessary to obtain a settlement from five to seven, years, would make the case much worse than it was at present. This bill had been passed by the other House, in consequence of a petition from the manufacturers of Glasgow; and yet he understood that whenever the manufacturers of Glasgow were in want of hands, they sent to Ireland to obtain them. The Irishmen came over in crowds: and then, at the end of five or seven years, the Glasgow manufacturers having sucked their blood, became anxious to get rid of them. He looked upon such conduct as a species of barbarity, which the House ought not to tolerate.Lord Napier
 said, he had doubts whether the evils which this bill was intended to remedy would be remedied by extending the time necessary to obtain a settlement in Scotland. This bill was not brought forward entirely on the representations of the manufacturers of Glasgow; for the evil was felt pretty generally throughout Scotland. He would adopt the alteration which had been proposed by the noble viscount; and would then let the bill drop for the present session, not by withdrawing it, but by failing to move its further progress. Such a mode of proceeding would call the consideration of parliament to it in an increased degree next session.The Marquis of Bute
 said, that as this bill was founded on a principle of exclusion, it had been his intention to oppose it; but, after the declaration of the noble viscount, he considered it to be already dead in law. He deprecated the introduction of the English system of poor-laws into Ireland; and contended, that the emigration of the redundant population of Ireland into Scotland was calculated to raise the emigrating population to the same moral level with that on which the population stood among which it settled.The Earl of Limerick
1371 said, that the opposition which had been made to this bill, would create a strong impression in Scotland, that something ought to be done
1371The Earl of Haddington
, in moving the second reading of the Scotch Peerage Bill, contended that this measure was not a contravention of any of the articles of Union. He introduced it with the consent of the great majority of the Scottish peers. His first object was to place the representative peers of Scotland on the same footing as other noble lords in that House; and next, to have them eligible, if they thought proper, to sit in the lower House of parliament, as members for counties and boroughs.Lord Belhaven
1393 felt convinced, that the bill not only went to repeal some of the provisions of the Act of Union, but of another act connected with it. The first clause went to allow the sixteen Scottish peers next elected to sit for life. This was contrary to the Act of Union, for, by that act, a certain number of the peers were selected lo represent the whole body; and though the connexion between the constituency and the elected was weak, still it was, at certain intervals, redeemable, and the electors could on such occasions testify their sense of the manner in which the trust was performed, by either rejection or re-election. Another part of the bill went to empower Scottish peers to be elected as members of the Commons. This practice was tolerated by the Act of Union with Ireland, still he could not consent, to tamper with the compact made in behalf of Scotland. They should always remember, that one of the parties could never be replaced in its previous position. In the peerage question of 1719, and in the duke of Richmond's bill of 1780, the Act of Union was held to be inviolable. If they now began to alter it, where would they stop? Would they go on to avoid the other proviso, by which papists and persons suspected of popery, were excluded from being either electors or representatives. The next point related to eldest sons of peers; and he did not know how far this arrangement was stipu-
1393The Earl of Mansfield
 said, that he had been at first adverse to this measure, but was now in favour of it. As to the argument of its being in contravention of the Act of Union, that act had been violated within a year and a half after its enactment? By the 6th and 7th of queen Anne, the mode of electing Scottish peers, as fixed by the Act of Union, had been entirely altered. In George 2nd's time the hereditary jurisdiction had been overthrown, and the law of forfeiture had undergone great alteration. There could, therefore, be no great stress laid upon the inviolability of the Act of Union. The question that followed was simply this—was the proposed alteration likely to be beneficial or not? He thought that to elect the representative peers of Scotland for life would be a great improvement on the present system. It would be more consistent with the dignity of a legislative peerage; it would elevate the character of the representative peers; and it would, therefore, confer a benefit on all who were entitled to aspire to that high honour.—With regard to that part of the bill which would enable those peers who were not representative peers to sit in the House of Commons, he was surprised to hear it represented as a degradation to the peerage of Scotland. It appeared hard that the eldest sons of Scottish peers should not sit in parliament for the counties and boroughs with which they were connected; and still harder that the eldest sons of Scotch gentlemen, created peers since the Union, should possess that privilege which was denied to the eldest sons of the old aristocracy. He was, however, of opinion, that a bill to remedy this anomaly ought to be introduced. The bill, as a substantive measure, appeared to him calculated to raise the character of the peerage of Scotland.The Earl of Rosebery
13951394 said, he would
13951394The Earl of Huddington
1396 said, he should oppose the bill in all its parts, as a direct violation both of the letter and spirit of the treaty of Union. It was as competent to their lordships to make a law, declaring that the forty-five representatives of the shires and boroughs should hold their seats in the other House for life, as it was for them to carry the proposed bill into a law. Nothing short of absolute necessity could justify their lordships in departing from the treaty of Union; and no such necessity existed. A majority of the Scotch peers being favourable to the measure was not a sufficient ground for passing such a resolution: if a single peer were against it, he had a right to demand that the treaty of Union should be adhered to. The measure was against the interest of the peers of Scotland. It had been contended that not more than forty Scotch peers
1396Lord Melville
1397 approved of the measure, and thought it would be highly advantageous to the peers of Scotland to have their privileges, with respect to sitting in parliament, assimilated to those of the peers of Ireland. The measure was founded upon the experience drawn from the Irish Union, and from seeing how well it worked with respect to the representative peers in that House. He could inform the noble viscount, with respect to the twenty Scotch peers put into that House by patents of English peerage, that the House had come to a resolution, that they should not have the right of voting. But, in a few years, in the case of a contested election, the House violated its own order. On that occasion the articles of Union were dwelt upon by both sides as making out their case. The Union had always been kept or violated by the hand of power, as it was found convenient. With respect to the proportion of the land-tax settled by the act of Union, it had been virtually violated by the imposition of the property tax. He had wished to resist this latter imposition in the court of Exchequer, as a breach of the articles of Union; but he could not procure a single peer to join him in his resistance. He thought it right that the eldest
1397The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that after what had passed, he would not take the sense of their lordships upon the measure, but should consider himself pledged to bring it forward next session.Lord Belhaven
 said, that the measure was directly opposed to the articles of Union. No doubt their lordships had the power to alter those articles if they thought fit; but it would be a question whether it would be right to exercise it. If the measure were to be brought forward at all, it should be in another shape.Lord Redesdale
1447l.1446l.1445l.l.1444, in moving the order of the day for the second reading of this bill, said, it would be his duty to call the attention of their lordships to the general bearing of the evidence on which this bill was founded. Their lordships had all the details of that evidence before them, and he would not waste the time of the House by repeating it. What he wished to call the attention of the House to was the general character of the borough. The
1447l.1446l.1445l.l.1444The Earl of Carnarvon
l.1448 said, that, having as a part of his duty, attended to the evidence produced at the bar in support of the bill, their lordships would expect him to state the effect which that evidence had produced on his mind. The noble earl had assumed, from the office which he held, and the opinions he supposed him to entertain, that he would, as a matter of course, oppose the second reading of the bill. He wished the noble earl would be good enough to state from what vote of his, in that or in the other House of Parliament, he had felt himself justified in coming to such a conclusion, supposing that the bill had been supported by sufficient evidence. It was because the bill was not supported by evidence that he felt himself called upon to oppose it. The noble earl had not referred the House, as, he was bound to do in candour, to the course which parliament was in the habit of adopting, with respect to such bills as the present. If the noble earl had done so, he must have admitted, that the House had not proceeded to the disfranchisement of a borough in any one instance, without proof of bribery against the majority of the voters—not mere conjecture, as in the present case—not mere assumption or probability, but distinct and positive proof. The case of Shoreham was the first. The number of voters in that case did not exceed one hundred and forty; and out of that number ninety-two had been proved to have taken bribes. The next case was that of Cricklade, in which, out of one hundred and seventy-two voters, one hundred and sixty had been proved to have received bribes. The Aylesbury case was another. The borough contained about four hundred voters, who were summoned by beat of drum to receive their bribes. In the case of Grampound there were fifty-eight voters, forty-seven of whom had received bribes. The greater part had been prosecuted, some had been overlooked in consequence of their poverty, and a few had escaped through some informality in the proceedings. The noble earl was bound to have stated these facts, that the House might be in possession of the usual course of dealing with corrupt boroughs. The noble earl had begun with the case of 1802; but why had he not taken the last?
l.1448The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the object of the present bill was to extend the right of-voting to the freeholders of the surrounding hundreds; and it had been said, that as he possessed considerable property in that neighbourhood, it would give him the power of influencing the elections. It was true, he had property in that part of the country; but there were nine or ten other persons, some of them members of that House, who might, in like manner, be said to increase their influence, if the bill was passed. But he was convinced the charge was untrue; for the independence of the freeholders there, especially of the substantial yeomen, was such, that if all the men of rank were to unite their influence in favour of one I candidate, and a popular candidate was to start, he would beat their united strength. He would not, however, avail himself even of the chance of increasing any supposed influence he might have, but would show his impartiality by declaring, that there was no evidence to justify the change now proposed. In his opinion, no case had been made out, either in law or equity, to justify the present bill.Lord De Dunstanville
1450 said, that the preamble of the bill ran in this form—.
1450The Marquis of Salisbury
 observed, that if the preamble contained the wildest doctrine of radical reform, it was a doctrine which had been acted upon by our ancient monarchs in summoning; the representatives of boroughs to parliament; and it was especially one that was adopted by that very radical reformer, Henry 8th. As he saw the general opinion of the House was against the bill, he would not press it to a division.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that if he could consider the question merely as a judicial one, he should feel obliged to give a verdict of acquittal; but it was not a novel practice for that House to examine witnesses to other facts than those of corruption. Inadequacy of numbers, as well as preference of their own over the general interest, was a cause of disfranchisement. In some boroughs, such, for instance, as those which have burgage tenures for the basis of their votes, it was impossible, at all times, to detect the corruption of the voters. If, therefore, nothing but the adoption of proof of corruption, on the part of some of these boroughs, was to be the means of admitting others into the representation, they would ultimately reject all those boroughs that were the depositaries of the commercial interests of the country, from the hope of commanding a seat in the House of Commons. He was no friend to those wild doctrines of reform that would establish universal suffrage, or even householder's suffrage in every case; for he did not think that any one uniform principle of voting could be adopted. There was one principle fixed in the landed property of the kingdom; there was another in the personal and commercial property of the country; and the last was represented by the populous boroughs that sent members to parliament, and some of them almost depended on the principle of universal suffrage. Whenever a bill of the nature of the present was before the House, he should look into it to see whether its object was to remove the franchise to an interest similar to that from which it had been subtracted; and if it was, he should support it. As the object of this bill was to transfer the franchise from the commercial to the landed interest, he should certainly oppose it, because it was in contravention of the principle he had just stated. The right of representation ought to be exercised for public advantage, alone; and he would not do any thing that might divert it to, the purposes of private advantage, convinced, as he was, that the time must come, when the great manufacturing districts would claim their right of having, representatives in parliament.Lord Dacre
1449 said, he thought it his duty to express his opinion upon the
1449The Earl of Eldon
14651464 said, he had a petition to present from Chester, on the subject of "the Abolition, of Slavery in the West-Indian Colonies". Their lordships were perfectly aware that since the year 1807, when the Slave-trade was put an end to, until 1823, little or nothing was done with a view to the amelioration of the slave-population, or of putting an end to slavery itself. It therefore happened that in 1823 there was an universal call upon government to come forward and do something; and a most distinguished
14651464Earl Grosvenor
1468 said, that, instead of being disposed to look with confidence towards the colonies for a redress of wrongs, he saw nothing in their conduct which did not lead him to draw an opposite inference. He was quite at a loss to reconcile the noble duke's hopes with the recorded acts of these colonial bodies, and their avowed determination to thwart all the recommendations of the government at home upon the subject. In fact, the negroes
1468Lord Calthorpe
147414731472147114701469 said:—My lords; though I cannot consider the present occasion, when there is no practical question before the House, to be one on which it can be desirable to discuss so delicate a question as that of the emancipation of the slaves in the West-India colonies, yet, as the noble lord who began this discussion, and the noble lord who spoke last, have both of them thought fit to enter very widely into this subject, and to indulge in some animadversions upon the conduct of the
147414731472147114701469Lord Seaford
1475 said, he had great pleasure in being enabled to state, from communications he had had with the bishops of Jamaica and Barbadoes, that these prelates in their circuits through the islands had found the planters most solicitous to promote morality and religion among their slaves. In another particular he must
1475Earl Bathurst
l.14671466 said, he could assure the noble earl, that his majesty's servants who were in office when these resolutions had been passed, the government which had succeeded them, and the
l.14671466The Duke of Wellington
1523 observed, that the noble earl had said, that he placed confidence in the administration of the noble duke, and had gone on to draw a contrast between the present administration and its immediate predecessor, and the administration of lord Liverpool. But he begged to remind the noble earl, that the bill brought in last year, did not proceed from the administration preceding the noble duke's but from that of the earl of Liverpool, of which the noble duke was himself a member. As to the hostility to the agriculturists, said by the noble lord to be entertained by some persons, he appealed to their lordships whether he had ever betrayed such a feeling, and whether he did not rather, in bringing forward his bill last year, introduce it as a measure beneficial to all interests. He did not, on that occasion, make it a question of protection or no protection, but had argued it on the ground of its tendency to serve all classes
1523Lord Goderich
s.s.s.s. said, he concurred in much, if not in all, that had fallen from the noble duke upon a former evening, with the exception of his recommendation of the measure as a permanent regulation. Independent of the various considerations connected with the state of the currency, which so materially affected this measure, it was apparent from the nature of the bill, and from circumstances which might arise, that it would be necessary hereafter to reconsider this measure. The protection afforded by this bill was, in his opinion, less than that afforded to the agriculturist by the bill of last year at that part of the scale at which the agriculturist stood most in need of protection. Greater protection was afforded by the bill of last year between 52s.s.s.s.The Marquis of Lansdowne
s.s1520 maintained, that the change of opinion in that House had not been effected by any feeling manifested out of doors. There was a strong feeling throughout the country upon the subject; but it was one of decided opposition to the present measure. The noble marquis regarded this measure as any thing but a permanent one. Now, though opposed to this bill, he above all things deprecated temporary legislation upon the subject. Even if the measure were bad, he would say, for God's sake let it be permanent. It was impossible for landlords and tenants to come to any arrangements, while the subject continued in an unsettled
s.s1520The Earl of Malmesbury
 said, that this equal annexation of the Isle of Man would take place as soon as the necessary arrangements could be effected. In the mean time, a plan of certificate had been provided by the officers of the Customs, which would prevent the perpetration of frauds and evasions. The noble marquis had assigned three reasons why this measure should not be deemed a permanent one. First, the state of the currency; and secondly, the situation of their foreign relations. Now, the latter reason, if applicable at all, would affect equally every other measure of general policy in which the country might be engaged: but he must say, that nothing was more unlikely than any occurrence in their foreign relations, which could affect the present arrangement. The third objection was against the descending scale of duties. This the noble lord defended, by a comparison of the provisions of the present bill with those of the bill of last year. The present bill went to supply the deficiency when the harvest was below the average; and as to its imputed want of permanency, what corn-bill could be called permanent, when the materials upon which the basis must rest were exposed to fluctuation, from a variety of uncontrollable causes.Lord Ellenborough
s. approved of the bill because it relinquished the principle of prohibition, and substituted a graduated scale of duty. He doubted, however, whether the descending scale under 58s.The Earl of Darnley
s.s.s.1521 condemned that
s.s.s.1521The Earl of Rosslyn
 declared, on his honour, that he not only had never heard any person use the words mentioned by the noble earl, but did not believe that any person was foolish enough to utter them.Lord Goderich
1524 accounted for the bill having proceeded from lord Liverpool's administration, on the ground that that noble lord was under the influence of those members of his government who represented him in the House of Commons; but that bill was not the only unwise measure which lord Liverpool was obliged to sanction. There was, for instance, the Canada bill. They had lately heard much of the word "resign" and he remembered, in Mr. Pitt's time, the word was much used by a certain triumvirate, who had established an undue influence over that minister; that triumvirate grew afterward into a decemvirate, and was overturned; and then he was told that Mr. Pitt resigned —Resigned ! no such thing; he was dragged out. The noble baron then proceeded to show that if the comparative value of money were taken into the account, corn was dearer in the reign of Charles 2nd than it was at present; and that no corn law could be permanent, that was not founded on the principle of the corn-law of that reign. That law forbade the importation of corn, unless there was a strong probability of scarcity: and the consequence was, that the country had risen into a high state of cultivation, and had been found capable of supporting three times the number of inhabitants, which it had in the reign of Charles 2nd. The present bill
1524Lord Redesdale
 opposed the bill, though he thought it less objectionable than the bill of lust year, simply because it was not intended by government as a steppingstone to further spoliation. This, rather than any intrinsic merit in the measure, accounted for the diminished number of its opponents, which had excited the surprise of the noble marquis. He had opposed both, and could not be called on to explain the conduct of those who had supported this bill, after having opposed the former; but if he were to hazard an explanation, it would be that the government of last year was the object of general disgust and suspicion, and the government of the present day the object of general confidence and esteem. They ought however, if they passed this bill now, to accompany it with two other measures; one to change the value of the currency, and another to give to farmers throughout the country the option of cancelling their leases. He felt unbounded veneration for the government of the noble duke, and could not but contrast the state of things at present with that of last year; when the landed proprietors were made, in another place, the object of reproach, and their interests appeared to be devoted to spoliation.Earl Stanhope
, in explanation, said, he was justified in his language, when he remembered that a distinguished political economist had said in another place, that the agricultural interest must be put down, and that he would sound the tocsin of alarm, whenever protection should be demanded. Was he not right in imputing wild theories to that administration, when there were in it Mr. Huskisson, Mr. Grant and a host of other political economists? He would not only repeat his observations but defend them.Earl Stanhope
1522s.d.s.s.s.s. implicitly believed that this bill would put a stop to the impolitic speculations in foreign corn, which had so often taken place, and substitute in their room a dealing in British produce. The duty at 581522s.d.s.s.s.s.The Duke of Wellington
1601cordon sanitaire1600 said, he had no doubt of the resources of the country being in the condition in which the noble duke had stated, but he wished they had been applied to a better purpose than carrying into effect the bill of 1826. The resources of the country were equal to the measure, he doubted not, but they would be exhausted by applying them to that purpose. After fifteen years peace, the country was more burthened with debt than at the termination of the war,
1601cordon sanitaire1600The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he had heard with great satisfaction the speech of the noble duke, not only for the grounds on which he had rested the policy of the measure, but on account of his declaration of the unequivocal adherence of government to those principles on which the measure of 1826 had been founded. The noble earl who had just sat down gave a decided preference to paper over a metallic currency, and he would not even have paper convertible into gold. The noble earl had stated, that the measure of 1826 had been adopted in a hurry, and without due caution. Now, he had never said, that the one-pound notes were the cause of the great convulsions which had then taken place; but the mischief was, that when convulsions did arise, the one-pound notes brought the great body of the public into jeopardy. The noble earl said, that they were a great convenience He knew they were, because they were the medium of the poor; but that was the very reason why they were the more dangerous. When panic arose, who were the crowd around the banker's door? Was it not composed of poor people, of agricultural labourers, and they it was who broke the banks. Thus, though the small notes were not the cause of the convulsion, yet, when it took place, they were the means of inflicting misery upon the poor. The measure bf 1826 was founded on a practical proof of the mischief. He therefore did not think that, in taking this course, they were acting under a delusion; neither did he believe that this country was in so crippled a condition, that if a foreign power threatened us, we should be obliged to bow our heads in shameful humility. From what he had seen of the resources of the country, he did not think there was a nation in the world whose power and means were less shaken than those of England. As to the bill itself, he thought it absolutely necessary; because he conceived it would be unfair if the English banker was not allowed to issue his notes, while, in his own immediate circle, he was met by the Scotch notes.Lord Goderick
1603 defended the Bank restriction act of 1797, which was founded on the principle of retaining a supply of metallic currency within the country. It arose out of the most extraordinary event that ever occurred in the world. He meant the French Revolution. What was the effect of that revolution? It was, that the
1603Lord Redesdale
1604 considered this measure as one that would inflict great distress on those whom it was intended to
1604The Marquis of Bute
1605 said, be could not but consider the bill as the inevitable result of that passed in 1826. In point of fact, the bill agreed to in that year implied that it would be followed by such an act as the present. If such a measure was necessary, that necessity arose from the fact of parliament having determined to apply to the banking establishments of Scotland a different rule to that which it had already applied to the banking establishments of England. While he admitted the necessity of the present measure, he could not admit of the necessity or expediency of keeping up that distinction between Scotland and this country, of which he had just spoken. The continuance of that distinction did not appear to have been contemplated by the administration of 1826; for it originally made no part of the bill passed at that period. They had intended by that bill to put a stop to the circulation of one-pound notes both in England and Scotland. Owing, however, to the opposition which was raised in Scotland, and by the Scotch representatives in parliament, against that portion of the bill which went to put an
1605Lord Calthorpe
 wished to know by what mode the government proposed to pay a paper debt in a metallic currency?Earl Ferrers
 said, he did not mean to be understood as expressing an unqualified approbation of the bill of 1826. A variety of reasons, and, in his opinion, good reasons, had influenced the decision that it should not extend to Scotland. As to the question of the noble earl, all he would reply was, that whether in specie or in paper, he hoped this country would perform all her engagements to the public creditor.The Duke of Wellington
 said, he was opposed to the principle of the bill, because he believed it would be most oppressive in its operation. It was an invasion of the rights of others, and would have a tendency to encourage poaching. It also tended to change the character of landowners to that of huxters and poulterers. On these grounds, he should move as an amendment, that it be read a second time that clay six months.The Earl of Westmorland
1692 said, that the bill was supported on the ground, that it would tend to diminish poaching. It would not, he contended, have that effect. The evidence taken before the committee did not justify the opinions of those who supported it. Most of the persons examined stated, that it was doubtful whether legalizing the sale of game would diminish poaching, and the case of Scotland was adduced, where the sale of game was permitted, and where it was proved that the number of poachers had recently increased. As an experiment, he would have no objection to the bill; neither would he object to an alteration of the laws with respect to qualification, some of which were absurd. But this bill went further than he was disposed to go. It allowed persons holding copyhold lands to qualify others; and whether such land was twenty-five acres or one hundred acres, it was the same thing to him, it was to the principle that he objected; which, instead of considering the value of
1692The Earl of Falmouth
 observed, that his noble friend had said, that he was ready to give his support to a bill which should legalize the sale of game. Now this bill went very little further. Besides, I his noble friend had only been able to find one objectionable clause in the bill. He had therefore a right to calculate on the support of his noble friend in other parts of the bill. For the objection able clause, his noble friend might urge his arguments against it when the bill was committed. He put it to their lordships, whether they would now act in contradiction to what they had themselves resolved upon, and sent down for the consent of another branch of the legislature.The Marquis of Salisbury
, while he supported the present bill, was ready to admit that he did not suppose it would put a stop to poaching altogether. He doubted whether any bill would have such an effect. What he wished to put a stop to was, that permitting the poacher to have an exclusive monopoly of the sale of game. All the poulterers had declared, that they could procure a sufficient supply of game to answer the present demand, or any demand which was likely to arise. This they could now only procure through those who were guilty of crimes against the law. If they passed the present bill, a supply could be procured through a legal channel; but what was of much greater importance, they would give a better character to the laws of the country.The Earl of Carnarvon
1693 said, that one of the objects of the bill, was to bring gentlemen into the market, in order to drive out the poacher. This experiment had never yet been made; and he was satisfied, that, if made, the result would be much better than the present state of things. With respect to the mode of qualification in the bill, he would only observe, that that qualification had been brought as near as possible to the law of Scotland. If their lordships threw out the bill, what would be the effect of such a course upon the country, after a committee had proved that, in spite of the laws, game was supplied to the public; that from the highest to the lowest, their tables were supplied with game by poaching? In all the great markets of the metropolis, game was sold; and, would their lordships say, that they would not make that legal, which, in spite of all
1693Lord Wharncliffe
1691 before he moved the second reading of the Game-bill, wished to allude to the way in which the powers of that House had been curtailed by the other House of parliament. Their lordships, early in the session, had passed a bill on this subject, that went to the House of Commons. When it arrived there, that House discovered, that the bill levied a tax upon the subject. On that ground they thought fit to throw it out, and bring in another, which was the bill under their lordships' consideration. Now he must say that in their notion of what was levying a tax on the subject, the ideas of the House of Commons were somewhat strained, when they maintained that the House of Lords must not pass a bill containing a pecuniary penalty, or repeal a bill containing one. If that really was their claim, it was time that it should be understood; for if such were the case, their lordships were there merely to register the bills of the House of Commons. This, he contended, would be an encroachment on their lordships' privileges; and it was the opinion of many that this claim of the Commons ought not to be admitted, and that some understanding should be come to on the subject. He trusted, whatever decision their lordships
1691Lord Wharncliffe,
1739 said, that having lately filled the office of Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, he was desirous to state his sentiments on this subject. He would say, that he was entirely satisfied with the grounds upon which his noble friend had resisted the production of the papers asked for. Some of the documents to which the motion referred were already before the public, and others related to transactions at present in progress, and the production of which would be improper, at the present moment. There was one single point in the speech of the noble mover, upon which he wished to offer a remark. His noble friend did not appear to be altogether satisfied with what had been done by government, towards the preservation of the constitution in Portugal. He believed the opinion of his noble friend would be much altered, whenever the documents could be produced, which had reference to that transaction. He would then see, that every thing had been done which could be effected by the moral and political influence of this country, towards the maintenance of the constitution in Portugal. It was under the influence and advice of this country, that Don Miguel was induced to enter into those engagements which he had made, and which had been proposed by the government of this country, with the expectation and the hope that, as a prince and a gentleman, he would have felt himself bound to adhere to them. That attempt had been made in vain; but its failure was solely attributable to the conduct of Don Miguel, who had violated all the engagements which he had promised to observe when he arrived, in.
1739The Earl of Dudley
1740 said, he felt himself bound to thank his noble friend for having brought the subject before their lordships, because it had drawn forth declarations which shewed that the government felt no indifference on the important topics referred to, and that they deemed it their duty to give the explanations required, as soon as they could be given consistently with prudence and expediency. After that declaration of the king's advisers, he thought it was not necessary for his noble friend to press his motion. The noble marquis then recapitulated the various points dwelt upon in the debate, contending, that the change in the situation of Europe effected by the conflict in which Russia had engaged with Turkey, was one which might by possibility demand the interference of this country.—With respect to Portugal, the separation of that country from the empire of the Brazils had been with the concurrence of Great Britain, and under circumstances which procured to this country the ascendancy which she had beneficially exercised, in Portugal for so many years. He agreed with his noble friend, that; the principle on
1740The Marquis of Lansdowne
1741 said, that two or three times during the session the noble mover had done him the honour of repeating an opinion of his, regarding the fidelity of the Turks, and the sincerity evinced by the Turkish government in keeping their verbal promises. He was not surprised that he had been misunderstood, in this instance, by the noble baron; indeed, he should have been more surprised if any thing that had fallen from so humble an individual should have been accurately recollected by that noble lord. He had never said or asserted that there existed any verbal treaty, or any other engagement which was considered as stronger than a written one, between this country and Turkey. What he said was this—that promises made three hundred years ago by the Turks, and which were now mere traditions, had been as faithfully observed by them as the most binding obligations of a written treaty. He had known other governments, who did not adhere half so faithfully to solemn, recent, and written treaties; and he trusted that the day would soon come when this House and the country would be taught by experience to entertain a similar opinion with him of those calumniated Turks, upon whom it pleased the noble lord to pour the vials of his wrath. The noble lord had alluded to an anecdote, as to a transaction which had taken place between M. Minziacki and the Reis Effendi. He knew nothing of that transaction, as he was not present when it was said to have occurred; but it would be most gratifying to him, if every document illustrative of his diplomatic intercourse with the Reis Effendi were laid on the table of that House. He felt no fear or shame, as to any thing that
1741Viscount Strangford
 said, that as the noble duke considered it his duty to resist his motion, he felt it necessary to persist in it; as he thought it would have a bad appearance in the eyes of the public and the world, if that House seemed indifferent on the subject of the great events which were passing on the theatre of Europe.Lord Holland
17171716171517141713171217111710 rose and said:—My lords, the information, to obtain which I rise to move an Address to the Crown, relates to two important branches of our foreign affairs; I mean those connected, first, with the Treaty of Triple Alliance, and the situation of Greece, and Turkey, and Russia; and secondly, with our ancient Ally, the kingdom of Portugal. These are both subjects of great interest; and the attention of parliament was directly called to them by the Speech from the Throne, at the commencement of the session, and expectations were raised, that the results would be made known to your lordships on both these subjects; but, during the whole session, no further information has been laid before your lordships. My chief motive for submitting that motion to your lordships, with which I shall conclude, is, to protest against the appearance of indifference, which, if real, is a great calamity to the country, and must lead to the loss of that character of importance which this country has so long maintained. My motion, my lords, will be simply a motion for information. At the same time, I should be acting disingenuously, in submitting this motion for information, were I to say, that I see nothing peculiar in the situation of the country—no changes which have taken place within the last few months, in the general situation of affairs, which persuade me that we ought to congratulate ourselves on that confidence in his majesty's government, which is quite unparalleled in the history of parliament, and which may
17171716171517141713171217111710Lord Holland
1733173217311730 said, he felt it to be his duty to oppose the motion on the same grounds as those which had been taken by his noble friend; but, at the same time, he must say, that he was not at all surprised at the motion which the noble lord had submitted to their lordships; because he agreed with the noble lord, that it would have a very bad effect, if it were supposed that the British parliament was ignorant of the march of public affairs amongst foreign states, or that it did not feel a deep interest in their proceedings. But, while he concurred with the noble Secretary in the propriety of not producing the documents which had been called for, his noble friend would excuse him if he said that their lordships had not derived from his explanation any precise information on the subject to which the attention of the House had been called. Now, listening as he had done, with great attention, to the speech of the noble mover, it was, he thought, quite impossi
1733173217311730Viscount Goderich
17291728172717261725 said, that with respect to the documents for which the noble lord had moved, some of them were not in existence, others had appeared in the newspapers, and others were of such a nature, that it would be inexpedient to produce them, whilst transactions so delicate as those to which they referred were pending. If he declined, therefore, acceding to the motion, it was upon these grounds. But the noble lord had dwelt upon two main points, and he felt it necessary to notice the observations which the noble lord had made respecting them. Of these points, he should deal with the last first. In the expressions of regret to which the noble lord had given utterance, at the events which had recently taken place in Portugal, the noble lord must have expected complete concurrence, on the part of the government and of the House.—They were unquestionably subjects of regret; and every one must feel them to be so. Here, then, there was no charge against the government; but it was his wish to see the particular points on which the noble lord rested his charge or suspicion against government. For one of those there could not be the slightest foundation. The noble lord had said, that the professed principle on which we had acted with respect to Portugal was that of strict neutrality, and in this the noble lord was perfectly correct; but the noble lord had complained, that there were appearances which justified the suspicion that that principle had not been observed; and in support of this position the noble lord had mentioned the rapid acknowledgement, on our part, of the blockade of Oporto, and the title which we had given to the person who caused that blockade, in our notification of it. The latter complaint was a strange one indeed; for, whatever might be the title of Don Miguel now, the title given him, in the notification of the blockade, was certainly his title at the time that notifica
17291728172717261725The Earl of Aberdeen
1738Lisbon Gazette1737173617351734 said, that although he was perfectly satisfied with the answer given to the noble lord by the noble Secretary for the Foreign Department, and by the noble viscount, he could not allow the question to be put without troubling their lordships with a few observations. He did not blame the noble lord for bringing forward this motion; but he could not suffer his majesty's government to undergo censure, because they had not given occasion for a similar discussion. Ministers could only have given rise to such a discussion in two ways—either by coming down to parliament for a vote of credit, or by making a communication to parliament, if any particular event occurred which would oblige them to apply to the legislature to grant their aid, in support of the measures which it might be the policy of his majesty to adopt. But they had no occasion to take either the one step or the other. The noble lord had, he admitted, shown a sound discretion in refraining from bringing this subject before parliament at an earlier period; and he conceived that ministers had also manifested a sound discretion in not introducing the question, as they conceived it to be quite unnecessary to take such a
1738Lisbon Gazette1737173617351734The Duke of Wellington
 said, that the learned lords who had just addressed the House had not made a proper distinction between the acts of an individual and those of a corporate body. It was well known, that a corporate body in which there was a divided responsibility, would do many acts, on which no individual among them would venture, if left to act by himself. If the principle laid down, of allowing corporations to dispose of their funds, for a purpose not having immediate reference to their charter were acceded to, it would be difficult to know where to draw the line. Their lordships had abundant evidence to prove the disposition to abuse, and they would not, in his opinion, be justified in rejecting this bill.Lord Calthorpe
1749 said, that the question was, whether such an application of Corporate funds as was here mentioned was contemplated by the donors of corporate property. If it was, then their lordships were right in rejecting this bill; but if they considered such an application an abuse, they were bound to pass it. The learned lord had said, that an abuse by one corporation was not a justification of such a measure as this bill; but if one corporation did abuse its trust, it would be a good ground for passing a measure which would prevent similar abuses in other corporations. He was therefore in favour of the bill; and for this additional reason,—that if some such measure did not pass, it would, where there happened to be divided interests in the corporation, give to one party, the majority, by a power of diverting to extraneous purposes, funds which were intended for the benefit of all. The mayor of all boroughs was the returning officer at elections. He was bound by his oath to strict impartiality between the candidates; and yet, by that rule, he might give his casting vote for the application of the funds of the corporation, in aid of the interests of the one can.
1749The Earl of Carnarvon
 wished to correct a mistake into which the lord Chancellor had fallen with respect to Mr. Otway Cave. That gentleman had made no agreement with the corporation of Leicester, or with any party, to pay part of the expenses. An arrangement was made by others, which was to be kept from the two candidates, and that gentleman had heard nothing of it, nor did he suspect it until that corporation made a demand on him for several thousand pounds, which he very properly resisted.Lord Goderich
 said, he had not meant to cast any imputation on Mr. Otway Cave.The Lord Chancellor
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1745l.1744 before he proposed the second reading of this bill, thought it right to explain the objects of the bill, and the grounds on which he conceived it ought to be read a second time. The different Corporations of the country were in possession of Funds, which were applicable to some specific purposes; some of those purposes were charitable, and others related to the police and local administration of the town. But besides the property which was so appropriated, cor
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1745l.1744Lord Goderich,
l.l.17471746 said, he had looked at the bill, and felt it his duty to oppose the second reading. He must express his surprise that his noble friend should have moved it, for when a bill of a similar character was brought in last session, which he also thought it his duty to oppose, he thought it had been opposed by his noble friend. He had opposed that bill, as a member of his majesty's government, and had thought it his duty to do so. His noble friend had not, in supporting the bill, fallen into the mistake of those who had supported it in another place, who seemed to suppose that corporations held their property differently from individuals. Corporations were situated precisely the same as individuals: they held some property in trust, as individuals held property in trust and if
l.l.17471746The Lord Chancellor
l. thought the learned lord bad mistaken the use of the word influence. No one had contended, that the corporation should not exert an influence in the elections, arising from their authority, in the place where they resided: but to employ their funds for the purposes of an election, did not seem to him to be proper. If a corporation might expend 27,000l.The Earl of Rosslyn
1748 said, he did not mean to vote against this bill because he had voted against the bill of last year, but because he thought it was against the principles of the constitution. No man could doubt, at least no lawyer could doubt, what the law was on the subject. The right of corporations to property which they did not hold in trust, was the same as the right of individuals to private property. He knew this was law in Westminster Hall forty years ago, and he believed it was so to this day. Corporations had a right to dispose of the property they held, not in trust, to any purposes that were legal and not corrupt. The present bill, like the bill of last year, did not purpose to put a
1748Lord Eldon
1778l said, it was intended by the bill before the House, to limit the issues to the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt to 3,000,0001778lLord Bexley
l1779 merely rose to thank the noble lord for his statement. There was no doubt that that report of the Finance Committee contained more information than any that had ever been laid before parliament, and he hoped their lordships would see in that report, an ample proof of the extent and solidity of the resources of the country, and of the benefit which had resulted to the country from a perseverance, as long as it was possible, in the plan adopted by Mr. Pitt for the redemption of the debt. In drawing the attention of their lordships to this subject, he could not but particularly notice the vast resources which, by the ability of his noble friend and the disposition of parliament, were provided to support the great exertions made during the last war; and he begged their lordships to advert to the facility with which those resources were provided, in consequence of the existence of that Sinking-fund, to which his noble friend had alluded. He would not in so thin a House, point out in what manner that Sinking-fund had worked; but there was one obvious remark which he begged leave to make;—namely, that the interest paid upon all the sums borrowed,
l1779The Duke of Wellington
17871786sldsldsds1785llllllll1784llll congratulated the right hon. gentleman, and the hon. baronet who moved the amendment, on the tone in which this discussion had been conducted. It was one of the most interesting subjects that could engage the attention of an English House of Commons. It was so far new to him, that he should be backward in expressing any decided opinion upon it; he wished rather to know what was the intention of the House than to pretend to lead them to any particular decision. He looked upon the question of the coinage as the peculiar prerogative of the Crown. The Bank had a right granted to them in an especial manner to issue paper; but they were bound to make that paper convertible into gold, so long as it was the pleasure of his majesty that gold should be the standard currency of the country. The right hon. gentleman had spoken of the amount of gold in circulation in the country, and his statement had been supposed to be overcharged. On that subject he would give the House as much information as he had been able to obtain from the facilities afforded him as a bank director. The Bank had the same right as other bodies to transact their affairs in their own way; but his knowledge of their affairs enabled him to give the House some information. That information related principally to the sum issued in the shape of specie, and tended to show, that the right hon. gentleman's statement had been very little, if any, overcharged. From January 1821, to: July 1824, 17,373,00017871786sldsldsds1785llllllll1784llllMr. Ward
1792lll179117901789l1788 said, he had heard with great pleasure the observations of the hon. member for London upon the silver currency. He hoped the House would bestow on them the attention they deserved, from the high authority of the hon. member on subjects of this kind. The hon. member for Callington (Mr. Baring) had endeavoured to persuade the House to believe that it was right to alter the present plan of the silver coin; but, in doing so, he showed that he was not so well informed upon the subject as many might be disposed to believe he was. When he proposed this alteration in 1826, he (sir H. Parnell) opposed it; and every thing he had learned since made him feel he was right, and that he was supported by the best authorities on the question, out of this House. The fact was, that the last settlement of the coinage of this country, both of gold and silver, was perhaps the only instance in which the attempt to use both for coin had completely succeeded; the effects of all other countries had failed; there was, therefore, no doubt of the inexpediency of making: any experiment founded on the theories of the hon. member for Callington. In this instance, all the facts of the case were against his project.1792lll179117901789l1788Sir H. Parnell
